DRN-4281848
The complaint
Miss B complains about how her insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
More Th>n (More Th>n), handled a claim under her motor insurance policy following the 
theft of the catalytic converter from her vehicle. 
Any reference to More Th>n in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In July 2022 the catalytic converter from Miss Bs vehicle was stolen. She contacted More 
Th>n the same day to tell them about the theft and lodge a claim. More Th>n appointed a 
firm (M) to arrange for Miss Bs car to be repaired. M had difficulty finding a repairer to 
undertake the repairs but appointed a repairer at the end of August. Miss B was provided 
with a hire car (for 14 days) under her policy. 
Miss B was unhappy at the time taken for the repairs to be arranged, so she complained to 
More Th>n in September 2022. More Th>n apologised for the delays, but said nationwide 
issues were delaying repairs being carried out. As Miss B hadnt been provided with a hire 
car (for the whole period) More Th>n agreed a loss of use payment as she didnt have 
access to her vehicle (£12 per day, for two periods in August and September).  The parts 
need for the repairs were ordered, but they didnt arrive until November 2022, with Miss Bs 
vehicle repairs being completed towards the end of November. 
In acknowledgement of the delays and time taken for her vehicle to be repaired, as well as 
not being provided with a hire car for most of the time from the theft to the vehicle being 
repaired, More Th>n offered Miss B £672 as a loss of use payment. Miss H was unhappy 
with what had happened, wanting compensation for the delays and inconvenience shes 
suffered while her vehicle was in for repair. More Th>n logged this as a complaint 
(December 2022). However, More Th>n werent able to consider and respond to her 
complaint, writing to her in February 2023 to say they wouldnt be in a position to issue a 
final response until April 2023.
Miss B then complained to this service. She said shed been provided with compensation for 
being without her vehicle of £12  a day (apart from a two-week period when she had a 
courtesy car) even though she paid an additional premium for a courtesy car under her 
policy. Shed been without a vehicle for three months, until her vehicle was repaired in 
November 2022. And shed continued to pay the premium for her policy during the period, as 
well as vehicle excise duty. She was unhappy at Ms handling of the repair, with her having 
to chase several times for updates on the progress of repair of her vehicle. She didnt feel 
theyd treated her as a priority. She wanted More Th>n to pay her at least £600 to cover the 
policy excess (£350)  and the cost of her policy and vehicle excise duty for the period she 
was without her vehicle, as well as £1,000 for the stress and unnecessary upset shed 
suffered. She also wanted More Th>n to consider repairers other than M given the way 
theyd handled the repair and treated her.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought More Th>n could have dealt with Miss 
Bs claim more efficiently and provided a better service. More Th>n had accepted delays 
occurred and offered £12 per day for loss of use of her vehicle. The investigator thought 
More Th>n should review the number of days the vehicle wasnt available and ensure theyd 
paid the correct sum for loss of use. The investigator also thought, having regard to the 
guidelines published by this service, More Th>n should pay Miss B £750 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. But the investigator didnt think More Th>n should refund the 
policy excess applied to the claim or the premiums paid for the period the vehicle wasnt 
available. 
Miss B accepted the investigators view, but as More Th>n didnt respond to the view, the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Y My role here is to decide whether More Th>n has acted fairly towards Miss B.
The main issue in Miss Bs complaint is the time taken for her vehicle to be repaired 
following the theft of the catalytic converter in July 2022. And shed not been provided with a 
hire car for most of the period (despite this being part of the cover under her policy). Shes 
also unhappy at how she was treated, particularly from M. More Th>n recognise the delays 
in the repairs being carried out, apologising, and paying for Miss Bs loss of the use of her 
vehicle.
Looking at what happened, its clear there were significant delays in the repairs to Miss Bs 
vehicle being repaired and returned to her. She reported the theft at the end of July 2022, 
but hr vehicle wasnt repaired and returned to her until the end of November 2022, a period 
of four months. From the timeline of events, there were delays in appointing a repairer and 
then further delays in ordering and receiving the parts necessary for the repair. While there 
may have been issues with the availability and supply of parts, it seems clear the repairs 
took longer than they should have done.
Ive also noted Miss B wasnt provided with a hire car for most of the period. Looking at the 
policy schedule shed taken out guaranteed hire car upgrade cover (a higher level of cover 
than the standard guaranteed hire car cover). Ive not seen the reasons why this was the 
case, but its clear she didnt receive the benefit of the cover shed taken out under the policy 
 even though More Th>n paid a daily loss of use sum.
Miss B also complains about the lack of communication and the attitude (particularly of M). 
From More Th>ns summary of the case, this appears to be acknowledged (it notes Miss B 
contacted them as she couldnt get hold of M). While More Th>n havent responded to this 
point, as they havent issued a final response to Miss Bs complaint, Ive no reason to doubt 
what Miss B has said, together with the impact it had on her.
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded More Th>n havent acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Miss B in how they handled her claim and the repairs to her vehicle.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about what More Th>n should do to put things 
right. While Miss B wasnt provided with a hire car, More Th>n have awarded a daily loss of 
use sum to recognise her not having her vehicle. Looking at More Th>ns case notes, they 
indicate payments of £288 (24 days in August 2022, at £12 per day) then £204 (17 days in 
September 2022). More Th>n say they awarded a further £672 (56 days from September 
2022 to November 2022, the date the vehicle was repaired). While these dates and 
payments would seem to cove the period the vehicle was in for repair, allowing for a short period where Miss B had a hire car, More Th>n should review the calculation of the loss of 
use payment, taking account of the exact number of days Miss B was without her vehicle 
(less those days she was provided with a hire car) and what they have already paid her. 
They should then pay Miss B any remaining balance.
Turning to the issue of compensation, Ive first considered Miss Bs request that she be 
refunded the excess payable under her policy (£350) along with the premium she paid under 
the policy for the time her vehicle was in for repair (and the Vehicle Excise Duty for the 
period). Having considered this, Ive concluded it wouldnt be reasonable for More Th>n to 
refund (reimburse) Miss B for these things. I say that because Miss B would always have had 
to pay the policy excess, having made a claim. And this would have been the case even had 
there been no delays and the communication to the standard she could expect. Similarly, she 
would still have need to insure and tax her vehicle over the period. So, I dont think it 
reasonable to ask More Th>n to reimburse her for these costs.
Ive them thought about the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss B from what 
happened. Given the sequence of events, together with what Miss B has said about the 
impact on her and her family over the period, I think shes suffered considerable distress, 
upset and worry, with significant distress and inconvenience, over a period of several 
months. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £750 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to:  
Review the calculation of the loss of use payment, taking account of the exact 
number of days Miss B was without her vehicle (less those days she was 
provided with a hire car) and what they have already paid her. They should then 
pay Miss B any remaining balance.
Pay Miss B £750 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss B accepts my final decision. If they pay 
later than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman