DRN-3884224
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) has applied a policy limit when 
settling his contents insurance claim.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
A number of graphics cards were stolen from Mr Us garage, so he got in touch with 
RSA to make a claim for them.
RSA said there was a policy limit of £2,500 for theft from outbuildings. As it 
considered the garage to be an outbuilding, it said it would only pay up to the limit.
After much discussion, RSA accepted the garage wasnt an outbuilding as it was 
attached to the main house. It agreed to consider the claim further by appointing a 
loss adjuster to check whether Mr U was underinsured.
The loss adjuster thought Mr U was adequately insured and offered to settle the 
claim for £26,000, which Mr U accepted. But shortly after, the loss adjuster said there 
was a policy limit of £4,000 for business equipment. As it considered the graphics 
cards were being used by Mr U as part of a business, it only paid up to the limit.
Mr U didnt think this was fair. He said he was a computer enthusiast who used the 
graphic cards for his hobbies of gaming and crypto mining. Separately, he had 
considered setting up a website to explain crypto mining, offer tips and give advice to 
other enthusiasts who may wish to get involved in his hobby. At the same time, he 
registered a business name to accompany the website. But he didnt go ahead with 
the website and the business never traded  it existed in name only.
RSA said Mr Us intention had been to run a business venture from his home with the 
aim of generating income in addition to this full time employment. So it thought the 
limit for business equipment was fairly applied.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied RSA 
had shown Mr U had used the graphics cards as part of a business. She asked RSA 
to settle the claim without relying on the business equipment policy limit, to pay 
interest on the settlement, and to pay £250 compensation.
Mr U accepted our investigators findings. RSA didnt. In summary, it said:
oIf the graphics cards were intended to be used as part of a hobby of crypto 
mining, why did Mr U setup a business?
oThe purpose of crypto mining is to gain money. Its not a hobby.
oAt the time of the loss, Mr U was asleep and the cards were being used for 
crypto mining. So the cards were being used to gain money as part of a 
business, and not as part of a hobby.
oThe business was incorporated prior to the loss. Before it completed its first 
year, the graphics cards were stolen. No accounts were submitted to 
Companies House and RSA presumes this was because Mr U was unable to 
continue crypto mining without the cards.
oThe cards Mr U had were top of the range at the time of the loss. If he had 
bought them for gaming, he would only have needed one. This shows they 
were bought primarily for crypto mining  and that was a business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim settlement
The policy covers loss of contents caused by theft. RSA has accepted the loss was caused 
this way. I also understand it accepts Mr U owned the items claimed for and agrees with his 
valuation of them, so none of this is in dispute.
Whilst RSA previously sought to apply a policy limit for theft from outbuildings, it has since 
accepted that shouldnt apply. Its now relying solely on the policy limit for Business 
equipment, which is set at £4,000 in the policy schedule. As RSA is seeking to apply the 
limit, the onus is on RSA to show it would be fair and reasonable to do so.
The phrase business equipment is defined in the policy to mean: Computer, telecoms and 
office equipment, office furniture and stationery.
I understand the purpose of a graphics card is broadly to provide a computer with more 
power to rapidly process information. This is usually to enhance the visual display but can 
also provide greater processing power across the other functions of a computer. So I think it 
would be fair to say a graphics card could be considered computer equipment.
Taken literally, the phrase computer equipment could include any computer or computer 
accessory. These kinds of items could be found in the home and be used solely for personal 
reasons. Im not satisfied it would be fair to consider items used in this way to amount to 
business equipment. In my view, these sorts of items would only fairly be considered 
business equipment if primarily used in connection with a business.
Much of RSAs response has focused on whether crypto mining could be considered a 
hobby. I understand its argument to be that if the cards werent used in connection with a 
hobby, they must have been used in connection with a business. But Im not persuaded 
thats the case. The cards are broadly used to give computer equipment greater processing 
power. And computers can be used for a number of activities, which arent limited to hobbies 
and business use only. Mr U says he used some of the cards for gaming as well as crypto 
mining. I think this shows that the cards, and the computers theyre used with, can have 
mixed purposes.
Overall I think the key question in this case is whether Mr U primarily used the graphics 
cards in connection with a business.
RSA has suggested that any activity which can generate an income amounts to running a 
business. And because crypto mining can generate an income, in RSAs view, Mr U was 
using the cards in connection with a business when crypto mining.However, Mr U has pointed out that some activities, such as investing in an ISA or stocks 
and shares can generate an income by using a computer and graphics cards  but they 
wouldnt necessarily mean the user was running a business.
I agree with Mr U. Individuals can generate a significant income through these kinds of 
investments without being considered to run a business. However, its also possible for 
professional investors to generate an income in this way as part of running a business.
So Im not persuaded the most relevant point is whether Mr U could have generated an 
income by using the graphics cards. Its whether he was using them to run a business.
RSA has pointed out that Mr U setup a company related to crypto mining. It suspects his 
intention was to generate an income from crypto mining, using the cards, as part of a 
business venture run from his garage.
Mr U has explained why this wasnt the case and has provided compelling evidence to 
support his position. Im satisfied the company was initially setup to give advice through the 
website only  not to crypto mine  but ultimately neither the website nor the company was 
pursued by Mr U and his company existed in name only thereafter.
That means at the time of the loss, Im not persuaded Mr U was running a business of any 
kind. It follows that his use of the graphics cards couldnt have been in connection with a 
business. Whilst the way he was using the cards may have been able to generate an income 
for him, Im not satisfied that automatically amounts to running a business.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied it would be fair in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint to consider Mr Us graphics cards were business equipment. And so Im 
not satisfied it would be fair for RSA to rely on the business equipment policy limit.
To put things right, RSA should now settle the claim without relying on the business 
equipment policy limit. It can rely on the remaining terms of the policy though, such as 
applying an excess.
Claim handling
Mr U first got in touch with RSA in May 2021. Within a few days it had gathered basic 
information about the loss, including Mr U providing evidence of his ownership and the value 
of the stolen cards. RSA then sought to limit the claim to £2,500.
The policy term I understand RSA relied on says: the most well pay for theft from 
outbuildings and from detached garages is the theft from outbuildings limit shown on your 
policy schedule. That document shows this limit is £2,500. The word outbuildings isnt 
defined in the policy. I think an ordinary understanding and everyday use of the word would 
be structures within the property boundary but not part of or attached to the main house  for 
example, a garden shed. Thats in keeping with the term applying to detached garages.
Mr Us garage is attached to and is part of his main house. So I dont think it could fairly be 
described as an outbuilding. However, RSA relied on part of the definition for the word 
home, which, amongst other things, includes outbuildings, including attached and detached 
garages. It said this showed the definition of outbuildings included attached garages.
RSA made a mistake as the policy was very clearly not defining outbuilding here  it was 
listing all the things that made up the definition of home. Despite Mr U pointing this out, it 
took nearly two months for RSA to accept the limit didnt apply.RSA then agreed to appoint a loss adjuster to look into the claim further, including a concern 
about underinsurance. The loss adjuster visited soon after and said the sum insured was 
more than adequate for the contents. The loss adjuster then went on to offer to settle the 
claim at £26,000, less the excess, which Mr U accepted.
However, the loss adjuster then became concerned that the cards may be business 
equipment  and this may mean the business equipment limit would apply. After some 
discussion internally at RSA, the limit was applied. As discussed above, most of the focus 
was on what Mr U could have used the cards for and how he could have made a profit from 
them  rather than finding out from him what the actual position was, and whether it could 
fairly be interpreted that the cards were business equipment.
It took from mid August to mid December for RSA to consider things further  at which point 
it asked to interview Mr U. Whilst the purpose of this was to find out the information I noted 
above, which is helpful, it came seven months after the claim was made  and four months 
after the loss adjuster had offered to accept the claim in full. By mid February, RSA set out 
its final position to Mr U  six months after he had complained.
Looking back over this claim journey, I think Mr U was treated poorly by RSA and it caused 
him avoidable distress and inconvenience. I bear in mind that crypto mining and the 
equipment involved in it is still relatively new and novel in the home insurance industry, so it 
was reasonable for RSA to take longer than usual to consider the impact on policy cover. 
However, I would have expected it to employ that level of caution prior to offering to settle 
the claim, rather than afterwards. Retracting the offer and carrying out significant further 
investigation gave Mr U a loss of expectation and added distress. And this followed two 
instances where RSA sought to reduce the claim and then accepted it would be wrong to do 
so  first by applying the outbuildings limit and then by exploring underinsurance.
I agree with our investigator that the fair remedy to this is £250 compensation for the 
avoidable distress and inconvenience caused and interest to recognise that Mr U has been 
without the claim settlement money unfairly for a period of time. RSA originally offered to 
settle the claim in full on 11 August 2021. Had it done so fairly, it would have offered the full 
amount at this time, so I consider thats when interest should be calculated from.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Limited to:
Settle the claim without relying on the business equipment policy limit.
Add interest to the settlement, at 8% simple per year, from 11 August 2021 to the 
date of settlement*.
Pay £250 compensation.
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr U how much its taken off. It should also give Mr U a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman