DRN-2595162
The complaint
Ms B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc failed to safeguard items in her safe 
deposit box.
What happened
Ms B had a safe deposit box with RBS. She began leasing the box in 1985, and the banks 
records show that she opened the box a number of times until 1989. She next opened the 
box in 2019. She complains that the staff would not allow her to carry out an inventory of the 
items in front of them in the vault, and so she took the contents (which were in envelopes) 
home. At home, she opened the envelopes and discovered that a number of items were 
missing. These were all items of sentimental value, such as diaries, family photographs and 
the like. She complains that these items must have been stolen, since she insists she did not 
take them out herself and nobody else was authorised to access the box for her. She 
suspects that they were stolen by either her trustee in bankruptcy or by her curator ad litem, 
who were both involved in sequestration (Scottish insolvency) proceedings against her in the 
1990s.
Ms B contacted the police (specifically Action Fraud), who told her there was no evidence of 
criminality. She also complained to RBS, and asked if a court had ordered it to allow a third 
party to open the box. But RBS said that due to the passage of so much time since she had 
last accessed the box, there was no evidence left for it to investigate. It did not accept that it 
had done anything wrong. The only evidence it could see was an ambiguous entry in its 
records, dated 2005, which read as follows:
P INST GROUP LEGAL ACCESS TO SAFE DEPOSIT IS PERMITTED
RBS was unable to find out precisely what that entry meant, as it was more than six years 
ago, and so all other records would have been deleted. But it insisted that without a court 
order  and it could find no record to show that there had ever been one  the box could not 
have been opened without Ms Bs consent.
Ms B also complained that she had sent RBS a letter by recorded delivery about this matter, 
and it had been signed for, but she had not received a reply. She said that when she had 
visited a branch, a member of staff had pretended to look busy to avoid serving her. RBS 
apologised for not replying to her letter (which it said it had lost), and paid her £75 
compensation and refunded the cost of sending it. Being dissatisfied with that response, 
Ms B brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said there was no evidence of any court 
order granting anyone access to the box, and no evidence to suggest that anyone had had 
access to it except Ms B and bank staff. She accepted that nobody had accessed the box 
except Ms B (or possibly bank staff acting with her permission). She noted that the missing 
items had no financial value, and so she did not think it was likely that anyone would want to 
steal them. She did not accept that the staff had refused to permit Ms B to inspect the 
contents of the box while she was there, or that branch staff had been rude to her or had 
refused to serve her. She thought RBS had already paid Ms B fair compensation for missing 
her letter (which I see it has since found).
Ms B did not accept that opinion. In particular, she argued that the bank staff could not 
possibly have opened the box without her being present, because she had the only keys. 
She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint, albeit for slightly different reasons to those given by the 
investigator.
Both Ms B and RBS agree that only Ms B had keys to the safe deposit box. RBS insists that 
its staff cannot access the box. Ms B has told us that there was no sign of forced entry. So 
its not clear how bank staff could have opened the box even if there had been a court order 
compelling it to do so, except with Ms Bs assistance. On the balance of probabilities, I am 
persuaded that nobody has opened the box except Ms B.
For completeness, I would add that there is no evidence that there ever was a court order 
against RBS in relation to Ms Bs safe deposit box. There is no reason to infer that there was 
one either. The 2005 entry in the log was a decade after the legal proceedings Ms B has told 
us about. I dont know what the 2005 entry means, and there is no longer any way to find 
out. But I dont agree that it is clear enough evidence to prove that a third party opened the 
box.
However, just in case I am wrong about that, and there really was an ex parte court order 
which required RBS to open the box for a third party (whether that person was either of the 
people Ms B suspects, or someone else)  without Ms B knowing about it at the time  then 
RBS would have had a legal duty to comply. Assuming that there was a way for RBS to 
open the box without a key and without damaging it, then RBS would have had to open it, 
and if the third party who had obtained that order had then removed items from the box, that 
would not have been RBSs fault, and I would not hold RBS liable for that. I dont think that is 
really what happened, but if it did happen, then that still would not assist Ms Bs case.
I think the most likely explanation is that Ms B removed the items herself in the 1980s and 
has since forgotten, since that was over thirty years ago. There is no evidence that RBS has 
lost them, or allowed someone to steal them. Its also not clear why anyone would want to 
steal them, since they have value only to Ms B herself.
I think £75 is fair compensation for RBS losing Ms Bs letter. It since found the letter and sent 
us a copy, which I have read, so the loss did not affect the outcome of this complaint.
There is not enough evidence for me to decide whether the member of branch staff who 
made herself look busy was pretending to look busy, or genuinely busy. I am not persuaded 
that she was being rude or unhelpful.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. But she doesnt have to reply. If we dont hear from her, then we will assume that she rejects it.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman