DRN-3430517
The complaint
S complains The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) have wrongly tried to force it to redeem 
its buy to let mortgage to bring an end to a favourable interest rate.
S is represented in this complaint. For ease I refer to S throughout.
What happened
In 2007 S took out an interest only buy to let mortgage of around £600,000 with TMW, 
which was secured over several properties. Each of the three directors of S at the time 
entered into a guarantee with TMW to pay the sums due under the mortgage. In 2010 one 
of the directors sadly passed away. TMW say they found that out in 2016, although S says 
it told them at the time. TMW wrote to S several times from around 2016 onwards asking to 
see the death certificate. They said in 2017 that once they had that, the mortgage would 
continue in the name of S.
In around 2018 TMW became aware of changes in the ownership of S which they said 
breached the terms and conditions of the mortgage and needed to be rectified or the 
mortgage redeemed in full. And they exchanged correspondence with S about this.
In 2020 Ss representative provided TMW with a copy of the death certificate. They 
explained that the deceased directors share in S was by then held in trust for his children. 
TMW said their lending criteria didnt allow trustees to be shareholders and S was in 
breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage and TMWs lending criteria. To put 
things right TMW required S to rectify the company shareholding by transferring it to the 
original shareholders who were still living, or to redeem the mortgage in full.
Ss representative replied but TMW didnt write back. S was unhappy about that and that 
TMW hadnt recorded the death of the third director when it told them about it in 2010. S 
disagreed with TMWs view that no change of ownership of S was permitted under the 
terms of the mortgage. It felt TMW was looking for ways to bring the mortgage, which was 
on a favourable interest rate, to an end.
In responding to Ss complaint, TMW said theyd written to S as they didnt have authority to 
deal with its representative. They said they found out about the directors death in 2016 
following a credit check on S. Theyd written to S regularly over the years asking for a copy 
of the death certificate, but S never provided it. And TMW had told S in March 2018 that it 
was in breach of the terms of the mortgage due to the change in the directorship and 
ownership of S, which theyd discovered from Companies House.
TMW didnt uphold Ss complaint so it brought it to this service. S wanted TMW to confirm it 
had done what was necessary to comply with the terms of the mortgage and to be 
compensated for the professional costs it had incurred in dealing with things since 2018. 
Our investigator agreed with TMW that S had breached the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage and said TMW hadnt acted unfairly. Since S didnt accept our investigators view, 
its complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an 
extract of which follows: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to identify first the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage 
contract between S and TMW. They were set out in the mortgage offer and documents 
which were enclosed with the mortgage offer, including the Buy To Let Mortgage 
Conditions 2006 (the Conditions).
The mortgage offer set out under the heading Basis of offer that it was made on the basis 
that all the information in the mortgage application was complete and accurate and that 
before TMW made the loan, the special conditions and general conditions set out in the 
offer would be complied with. The offer said, If your circumstances or your requirements 
change, please let us know immediately and we will tell you how this affects our offer.
Special condition 3 in the mortgage offer said TMW had assessed the application on the 
basis of the information theyd been given about the three existing directors and 
shareholders of S. TMW required confirmation from the conveyancer acting for S that 
thered been no change in that information before they would release the funds.
Special condition 8 in the mortgage offer required the three directors to provide joint and 
several guarantees for the mortgage  which they provided  and said Consent from us 
[TMW] must be obtained before the Directors or beneficial owners of the company change 
or the trading activities are amended. We reserve the right to increase the interest rates in 
the event of any changes.
Condition 7.1. (e) of the Conditions required S to notify TMW of any proposed change in 
the directors of S or shareholding in excess of 5% of the issued share of the company.
Condition 10.1 of the Conditions entitled Acceleration set out, in summary, that if any of 
the events set out in the sub-paragraphs to 10.1 occurred, TMW could immediately enforce 
their security without notice to S and the mortgage would be repayable straight away. The 
events included:
Breach of covenant or obligations under the mortgage or offer (sub-paragraph b)
Any circumstances that led TMW to believe S or the guarantors might not be able 
to meet their obligations under the mortgage (sub-paragraph k).
Condition 24 Further Assurance said S shall from time to time execute and do all 
such assurances acts and things as we [TMW] may require for protecting the security 
over the property.
I think the terms and conditions set out in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, as 
Id expect them to, that S were required to let TMW know - both before funds were 
released to them initially and during the term of the mortgage - about any changes to the 
shareholding in S. Condition 8 in the mortgage offer required S to obtain TMWs consent 
before making any such changes and gave TMW the right to increase the interest rate if 
changes were made; condition 7.1. (e) in the Conditions required S to notify any changes 
in shareholding over 5%. The terms and conditions also made clear TMW could call in the 
loan if S breached the terms and conditions. And they could ask S to take action to protect 
TMWs security over the property.I acknowledge Ss concern TMW havent always set out clearly the basis on which 
theyve said S was in breach of contract. But I think they did enough to explain things. 
And since I think they were sufficiently clear, Id expect the directors of S to have read 
and understood the mortgage terms and conditions.
I can see from the available documents and activity at Companies House that some 
significant changes were made to the ownership of S over time. For example, before the 
passing of one of the original three directors/shareholders in 2010, another limited 
company acquired a substantial shareholding in S. In 2011 that company became the sole 
owner, and neither of the original surviving shareholders retained a direct interest. In 2019 
the limited company transferred ownership back to the original shareholders plus the 
trustees of the estate of the deceased shareholder.
S argues that a change made to the public record at Companies House in 2011, in line with 
company law requirements, to remove the deceased director from the register was enough 
to inform TMW of the change. Im aware TMW became aware from the register of changes 
that happened in 2018 as they wrote to S about them then. But I dont think its reasonable 
to expect TMW to have relied on records at Companies House for information about 
changes S was required to notify them of under the mortgage contract. I think the contract 
required S to let TMW know direct. And, from what Ive seen, it failed to do so in breach of 
the terms and conditions.
S has suggested TMW used the passing of the third director as a means of bringing the 
mortgage and its favourable interest rate to an end. Im not persuaded, based on what Ive 
seen, that was TMWs intention. TMW asked S many times to see the death certificate 
and, although S thinks it notified TMW of the death at the time, it didnt respond to TMWs 
correspondence about that until 2020. I can understand it was hard for the remaining 
directors of S to come to terms with his passing. But I think it was reasonable for TMW to 
see the death certificate to complete their records.
TMWs letters from around 2018 onwards raised concerns about the changes to Ss 
shareholding which I think was TMWs main concern. I think it was reasonable for TMW 
to point out to S it was in breach of contract in failing to let TMW know about the changes 
it was making. And its reasonable too that TMW would have had concerns about its 
security when the structure of the company theyd lent to had changed. Ultimately the 
level of risk TMW were prepared to take was a matter of commercial judgment for them. 
The mortgage contract allowed them to reassess that when changes to Ss shareholding 
happened. So, it was reasonable for them to consider their current lending criteria, as 
they did, in deciding whether they were prepared to agree the changes S had made. 
From what Ive seen, TMW gave S the chance to rectify things as an alternative to 
redeeming the mortgage, which I think was fair.
I understand ownership of S now rests with the two original surviving 
directors/shareholders. And TMW confirmed to S in a letter sent in March 2021 that TMW 
were satisfied S had made the necessary changes to its shareholding to allow the 
mortgage to continue. So, the situation would seem to have been resolved. Whatever the 
position, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think TMW have treated S unreasonably or 
unfairly in relation to the mortgage or that its fair to ask TMW to meet Ss costs of making 
the changes TMW required to Ss shareholding. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I 
understand Ss directors will be disappointed, I dont uphold Ss complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Ss complaint.Recent developments
In response to my provisional decision S said Id confirmed TMW are satisfied S has made 
the necessary changes to its shareholding to allow the mortgage to continue. S said that had 
been the directors main concern. S said too that it wasnt clear that key correspondence 
TMW said theyd sent to the private addresses of Ss directors had been received, including 
the March 2021 letter. 
 
TMW didnt have any comments to make on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the directors of S may not have seen some of the correspondence TMW sent 
them. But the parties havent made any comments that lead me to change my mind about 
the outcome of this complaint. So, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
uphold Ss complaint.
Id clarify that, although Ive commented on the March 2021 letter, I am not making a finding 
that TMW are satisfied S has made the necessary changes to its shareholding to allow the 
mortgage to continue. I simply noted what TMWs letter said and that the situation appeared 
to have been resolved. If any doubt remains about that, Id encourage S to discuss the 
position with TMW direct. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman