DRN-3879893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Rooftop Mortgages Limited has wrongly allowed missed 
payment markers to remain on their credit files, and because of these markers Mr and Mrs S 
havent been able to remortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S said that when they took out a second payment holiday on two buy to let 
(BTL) mortgages they hold with Rooftop, it made a mistake. They said this meant missed 
payments showed on their credit files. They said that meant they were now paying more for 
a number of BTL mortgages, and for car financing. Mr and Mrs S said this was having a 
severe financial effect on them, which in turn was affecting their health. They wanted the 
marks removed, and for Rooftop to pay all the extra costs theyd incurred as a result.
Rooftop said Mr and Mrs S had a payment holiday on two BTL mortgages from May to July 
2020, inclusive. It then put a second payment holiday on these mortgages for Mr and Mrs S, 
in late November 2020. This payment holiday was actually partially backdated, to cover the 
payments due on both mortgages for November and December 2020, and January 2021. 
Rooftop said when it did that, it left a missed payment marker on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files 
for the payment due on 1 November 2020. It was sorry about that, and it had fixed this.
But Rooftop said that on both mortgage accounts, no payment was received for August and 
September. So by September 2020, both mortgages were one month in arrears, and they 
were reported as in arrears at that time, with one missed payment being marked for each 
mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files. On one of the accounts (ending 872) a double 
payment was made in October, so it wasnt reported as in arrears for October too. The other 
account (909) only received one payment in October, so it was also in arrears in October. 
Rooftop said that wasnt a mistake, and it wouldnt take these markers off.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Rooftop accepted 
it had made mistakes over the credit file entries for November 2020. But the other markers 
were for payments that had been missed. They had been correctly recorded.
Our investigator also said she could see that Mr and Mrs S had been turned down for a 
mortgage, but she couldnt say that what Rooftop had done was the cause of that.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed prepared carefully for the mortgage application, and there 
was no other reason to turn down him and Mrs S, if it wasnt the adverse data from Rooftop. 
He said hed lost the fee he paid for that mortgage application, because of Rooftop. He said 
Rooftop had apologised, and entirely upheld his complaint, but it just hadnt done anything to 
put things right.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was 
passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
one part of it. This is what I said then: 
Rooftop accepts it made a mistake over part of Mr and Mrs Ss credit reporting. It told 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) that they had missed payments for the start of 
November 2020. But it had agreed to put a payment holiday on their two mortgages 
(account numbers ending 909 and 872) from early November. So those missed 
payment markers recorded by Rooftop for November 2020 were wrong.
But Rooftop said that other missed payment markers on these two accounts werent 
wrong. It has shown us that Mr and Mrs S missed payments in August and September 
for both these accounts. It has recorded one missed payment for account ending 872 
(because Mr and Mrs S paid double in October for that mortgage) and it has recorded 
two missed payments for account ending 909 (because Mr and Mrs S didnt overpay in 
October).
Rooftop upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the November 2020 missed payment 
markers. But it didnt uphold their complaint about markers for August and September 
2020.
What Rooftop has shown us, does make me think that those payments were missed. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that was Rooftops fault. So I think this is accurate 
and fair reporting. Rooftop doesnt have to remove those missed payment markers from 
Mr and Mrs Ss credit files.
I understand Mr and Mrs S may have paid back the missed payments since then. But 
Rooftop doesnt have to remove the missed payment markers because Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgages have since been brought up to date. I wouldnt expect it to do that.
When Mr and Mrs S applied for car finance in 2021, and then for a new BTL mortgage in 
2022, they had missed payments on their credit files. These markers were a mix of 
mistakes (for November 2020) and accurate and fair reporting.
I dont think the outcome of these applications would have been any different, if Rooftop 
hadnt made its one mistake, for November 2020. Mr and Mrs S would still have missed 
payment markers on their credit files. I dont think the one extra marker that Rooftop 
added by mistake is likely to be the reason why their applications were turned down, or 
why theyve found it harder to get credit. I think that was likely to have happened 
anyway, because of the marks which Ive said I think were accurate and fair.
Because I think that Mr and Mrs S would always have found it difficult to get car credit, 
and to remortgage, with missed payment markers on their credit files, I dont think 
Rooftop has to pay them any of the extra money that they are paying for their car lease 
or for their BTL mortgages now. I understand Mr and Mrs S are finding it difficult to meet 
these payments, and Im sorry to hear that, but I just dont think this is Rooftops fault.
I do, though, think that Rooftop shouldnt have made mistakes, and left adverse markers 
on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files for November 2020, until late 2022. I can see Rooftop has 
said sorry for that, but it doesnt seem to have paid any compensation for that. And this 
mistake by Rooftop does appear to me to have distressed Mr and Mrs S, and prolonged 
the resolution of this issue for them. For that reason, I think that Rooftop should pay Mr 
and Mrs S £200 in compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rooftop said it would pay the compensation Id suggested. 
Mr S replied to say that after two years of delays, Rooftop had finally corrected its mistakes. 
He said Rooftop managed to mark September and October 2020 correctly after his 
complaint was upheld. Mr S told us his credit score had improved significantly after this 
change. 
But he said Rooftop had damaged his credit rating over two years prior to its eventual 
correction in September 2022. And Mr S said he couldnt go back and get the interest rates 
that were available when this mistake was still on his credit file. He felt that if this correction 
had been made sooner, he would have been able to get a remortgage at a better rate. 
Mr S said he could no longer afford the properties at the rates he could get now, and was 
having to sell them. He felt he was being punished by Rooftop, and he said hed paid nearly 
£20,000 extra mortgage interest already in the last 6 months to Rooftop. So he wanted me to 
reconsider the compensation award Id suggested. 
Mr S said that Rooftop had reported different late payments to different agencies, and he 
sent us different records of his credit files, which he said showed this. 
I wont name the CRAs here. But what Mr S has shown us is that one CRA had, in May 
2022, shown two missed payment on one mortgage, one for around September and one for 
around November. And on the other mortgage, the same agency showed three missed 
payments, for around September to November. That agency now holds two missed 
payments on one mortgage, for around September and October 2020, and one on the other, 
for around September 2020. Another, different, agency shows one missed payment on one 
mortgage, two on the other, at around the same time. 
Mr S says that the other, different agency shows the missed payments in the wrong months. 
And he said that showed negligence by Rooftop. I dont agree with that. I dont think its likely 
that Rooftop is sending different information to different CRAs. Rather, its up to the CRAs, 
not Rooftop, how the information Rooftop sends to them is displayed. And its not unusual for 
different CRAs to place the same missed payments in slightly different time periods. So I 
dont see anything inconsistent with my above decision in the credit reports Mr S has now 
shared with us. 
Mr S has also shown us that his credit score has significantly improved recently. Although 
part of that improvement may be because Rooftop has removed two of the five missed 
payments on his credit file, I think most of the change is likely to be because the effect of 
missed payments on a credit score greatly diminishes over time, rather than because of the 
amendments Rooftop has made.
We know Mr S does have missed payment markers on his credit file, after Rooftops 
amendments. Thats what I would expect, because he has missed some payments onto his 
two mortgages with Rooftop. I think thats why Mr and Mrs S would always have had trouble 
remortgaging. And I explained in my provisional decision that, because I think these 
markers, which were both accurate and fair, would always have meant Mr and Mrs S would 
have difficulty remortgaging, I dont think Rooftop has to do anything now to put Mr and 
Mrs S in the position they would have been in, if theyd been able to remortgage earlier.I understand that Mr and Mrs S are now struggling with the mortgage payments on these 
BTL properties, and I am sorry to hear about that. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
just dont think this is Rooftops fault. So, although I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Rooftop Mortgages Limited must pay Mr and Mrs S £200 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman