DRN-1432162
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2016 Mr S took out an Aioi motor insurance policy. It required him to have a 
telematics box fitted to his car. This allowed Aioi to monitor its use and location. In 
September that year it reviewed data from the box. Aioi felt this showed the car wasnt being 
kept overnight at the address the policy was registered at. It says it sent Mr S a letter and 
email requesting an explanation. It didnt receive a response so cancelled the policy.  
Mr S is unhappy as he feels the cancellation has increased the cost of cover for him. He 
feels the cancellation was unfair as when he took out the cover he was living between two 
addresses. He thought he would be living mostly at the address he declared. But he ended 
up normally at the other one. Mr S would like Aioi to remove the cancellation record. He also 
wants a letter confirming he doesnt need to declare the cancellation and compensation for 
the distress this matter has caused him. 
Aioi responded to Mr S complaint. It said his cover had been cancelled in line with the terms 
of the policy. It didnt agree to amend the cancellation record. 
Our Investigator felt Aioi had cancel the cover in line with the terms of the policy. He felt it 
was a reasonable decision. He didnt recommend Aioi do anything differently. Mr S didnt 
accept that so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making Aioi 
amend the record of cancellation or do anything differently.
Ive seen the data from the telematics box in Mr S car. This shows after the first few weeks 
of cover the car wasnt usually kept at the policy address. Aioi has pointed out that the terms 
and conditions say cover will not be granted to any car thats not normally kept at the policy 
address. So I think it was reasonable for Aioi to write and email Mr S about the issue. It 
asked for an explanation, for him to update his policy address if necessary and written 
confirmation that all other information he had declared was correct.  
The letter and email also explained the policy would be cancelled after eight or nine days if 
there was no response. Mr S says he didnt receive the letter. I accept its possible it wasnt 
delivered. But I think its most likely it was sent by Aioi. The copy Ive seen has the correct 
policy address. In any event the email was received. Mr S has shown that. So he should 
have been aware of the request from Aioi. Its unfortunate he didnt read the email. But I 
cant say it was Aiois fault it didnt pass a fraud prevention system on his email account.As Aioi didnt receive a response it cancelled the policy. It says this was done in line with the 
terms of the policy. The terms say Aioi can cancel the policy when there are serious grounds 
for doing so. 
Aiois referred to one of the example grounds listed in the terms  failure to provide 
requested documents. Mr S did fail to provide information, including a document. The 
information was requested in response to a significant issue. Cover wasnt available for cars 
not normally kept at the policy address  and his wasnt. The correspondence gave notice 
the policy would be cancelled if there was no response. So I cant say Aiois decision to 
cancel the policy, because Mr S failed to provide that documentation and information, was 
unreasonable. 
I dont feel Mr S deliberately mislead Aioi. Unfortunately he didnt respond to its request for 
information about a significant issue. I realise Mr S will be frustrated by this decision. But Im 
not going to make Aioi amend the cancellation record or do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of 
Europe SE amend the record of cancellation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman