DRN-2522476
The complaint
 Mr L complains that Market Harborough Building Society hasnt treated him fairly in respect 
of his mortgage.
What happened
Mr L and his now ex-wife held a joint mortgage with Market Harborough. In 2016 they 
separated. Mr L continued to pay the mortgage. But he struggled financially. Mr L wanted the 
mortgage switched to interest only. Hed also explored getting a new interest rate product, 
taking a payment holiday and a term extension. But Market Harborough said that some of 
those changes werent in Mr Ls best interests. And in any case it would require his ex-wife 
agree to those changes, which she would not do. Mr L says he was the victim of financial 
related domestic abuse. 
On 3 June 2019, the court issued an order which said that Mr Ls ex-wife should co-operate 
with, and sign, any documentation required to, vary the existing mortgage product for The 
Mortgage on The Family Home to reduce the monthly mortgage repayments pending sale of 
The Family Home.
Market Harborough said it would agree a switch to interest only for six months  providing it 
was agreed by both Mr L and his ex-wife and it was given evidence the property was on the 
market. Mr L thinks it was unfair that Market Harborough imposed additional conditions once 
it saw the court order.
Mr L and his ex-wife signed to agree the switch to interest only  Mr L said this was in July 
2019. Market Harborough says it didnt receive signed consent until September 2019. In 
October 2019, Market Harborough received proof the property was up for sale. The 
mortgage was switched to interest only for six months from November 2019. Mr L couldnt 
understand why the mortgage couldnt be switched straight away.
Mr L said that he couldnt market the property until he could repair it  and he couldnt repair 
it until he had the funds to do so.
Mr L considered that Market Harborough hadnt treated him fairly and placed unreasonable 
conditions on him in order to receive a cheaper mortgage payment. He said that it had 
overstepped its authority in trying to interpret and enforce the court order. And Mr L wanted 
Market Harborough to compensate him for the interest he has overpaid from the date his ex-
wife agreed to the switch until the date the switch was made and for the damage to his 
wellbeing.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that it 
wasnt reasonable in the circumstances for Market Harborough to insist upon evidence that 
the property was being marketed once it had Mr Ls ex-wifes consent for the change to 
interest only. But the investigator said Mr L hadnt suffered any financial loss by paying the 
capital during that period. She did think that Market Harboroughs had caused Mr L trouble 
and upset in the way it dealt with him  and it should pay him £400 to reflect that.
Market Harborough didnt accept what the investigator said. It said, in summary, that it was 
entirely reasonable for it to impose a condition requiring the property to be marketed before it 
agreed the switch to interest only.
Mr L didnt accept what the investigator said either. He said that the proposed compensation 
of £400 didnt reflect the significant impact this matter had on his mental health, career, 
relationships and his finances. He said he was a mortgage prisoner and he should be fairly 
compensated for that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L took out a mortgage with his now ex-wife. They were both jointly and severally liable for 
the debt. I was sorry to hear what Mr L has been through. But it was reasonable for Market 
Harborough to consider both his and his ex-wifes interests when making decisions about 
what help it could offer him.
I can see that Mr L made contact with Market Harborough looking for help to reduce his 
payments from 2017 onwards. It was reasonable for Market Harborough to only agree to 
changes that might potentially be detrimental to Mr L or his ex-wife. 
There were good reasons why most of the things Mr L wanted to do couldnt be agreed 
without his ex-wifes consent  and may not have been in Mr Ls best interests either.
A new fixed rate would tie both Mr L and his ex-wife in to the mortgage for the fixed term and 
they would be liable for an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage was repaid early. 
As Mr L has explained he planned to sell the property, it was reasonable for Market 
Harborough to consider this option wasnt in their interests. I say this as it didnt offer any 
products that didnt have an ERC.
A term extension would reduce the monthly payments, but increase the amount of interest 
paid. Similarly a payment holiday and switch to interest only would increase the interest 
payable. So it was reasonable for Market Harborough to require Mr Ls ex-wife to agree to 
any of those changes.
I appreciate that left Mr L in an unsatisfactory position. But I dont consider that was as a 
result of any unfair treatment by Market Harborough. I dont consider that it could fairly put in 
place any concessions that would help Mr L until his wife agreed to them, bearing in mind 
this was a joint mortgage that she was jointly and severally liable for.
The court order was between Mr L and his ex-wife. It didnt bind Market Harborough to do 
anything. But it was relevant for it to understand Mr Ls circumstances and what was likely to 
happen. But it still required Mr Ls ex-wife to agree to the switch to interest only.
The evidence I have is that Market Harborough received consent from Mrs Ls ex-wife in 
August 2019. I can see why it might want to protect its position by getting that in writing. That 
wasnt received from until 2 September 2019. And it didnt receive written agreement from 
Mr L until 11 September 2019.
I also understand its reasons why it wanted to see the property was actively being marketed. 
In many cases this will be fair. But I dont think it was in the individual circumstances of this 
case. I say that because Market Harborough was aware that Mr L was paying the mortgage 
and the difficulty it was causing him in making the full capital repayment. That had been 
ongoing for some time. It was also aware of his personal circumstances. It was open for 
Market Harborough to offer the concession for a limited time and then review things. But I 
dont think it was fair for it to insist on evidence that the property was being marketed before 
agreeing to the switch, in the circumstances of this case.
Like the investigator, I cant say that Mr L has suffered any loss in continuing to pay capital 
to the mortgage. I also havent seen sufficient evidence that Mr L has suffered a loss 
because of the delay in the switch to interest only. I note his points that he could only afford 
the necessary work on the property when his mortgage payments were reduced and the saleability of the property  but that is not enough for me to say that the property would have 
sold more quickly but for the delay.
That leaves a payment for the distress and inconvenience Mr L has suffered. I have thought 
carefully about what Mr L has told us, including his difficult personal circumstances over the 
past few years. I dont doubt the very difficult time he has been through or the significant 
impact on his health, career, finances and relationships. But I can only award compensation 
for the impact on him of Market Harboroughs mistake. 
I understand Mr L is not happy with the way Market Harborough treated him over a number 
of years. But for the reasons I have explained I dont consider Market Harborough acted 
unfairly or unreasonably for a large part of that time. My award is only intended to 
compensate Mr L for any distress and inconvenience he suffered from the point his ex-wife 
agreed to the switch to interest only until the switch actually took place  so between two 
and three months. After very careful consideration I consider the investigators 
recommendation of £400 is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the impact of that delay 
to Mr L. Again I dont doubt that Mr L was experiencing a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience during that period  but I dont consider Market Harborough was responsible 
for all of that. So in all of the circumstances I consider £400 is a fair amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that Market Harborough Building Society should pay Mr L £400 for any 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman