DRN-2329937
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim he 
made under his joint home insurance policy with Mrs N.
What happened
Mr N noticed some mortar and stone had come away from a wall in his garage. He 
discovered this was caused by the roots of a neighbours tree that had grown and spread 
underneath. Mr N contacted RSA to make a claim for the damage to the wall.
RSA declined Mr Ns claim as it said the damage wasnt covered under the policy. The 
surveyor RSA instructed said the damage had been gradual over time. RSA said claims for 
damage caused by a gradual cause are excluded. 
Mr N asked us to look at his complaint. He understands the clause RSA relied on in the 
policy is designed for the wear and tear of the fabric of a building. He says the root growth is 
outside of his control, happening gradually until it affects the structure of the wall. Mr N says 
he understands the exclusion of gradual deterioration to be for general maintenance, which 
he accepts would be his responsibility. He doesnt believe his claim should be rejected for 
this reason. Mr N is unhappy that there were typing errors in the surveyors report. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr N didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are designed to cover insured perils that are sudden unforeseen events 
such as for example; fire and theft. They arent designed to cover every eventuality for things 
that can go wrong. 
Mr Ns policy with RSA says:
Uninsurable risks - Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or 
indirectly caused by or resulting from:
 wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, 
condensation or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of 
time.
I think the policy clearly says that damage caused directly or indirectly from anything that 
happens gradually over a period of time isnt an insurable risk. I appreciate that Mr N takes a 
different view as to what this means. He believes this exclusion is designed for the failure of 
a building component due to age, or lack of maintenance. I dont disagree. But I dont think 
this means his claim is covered. I think the policy wording is clear.
There were some spelling mistakes in the surveyors report, which isnt ideal. And I can 
understand why Mr N was disappointed: he said it showed the report hadnt been proof read 
before it was sent. But I dont think it made a difference to the decision RSA reached.
I understand Mr N is very unhappy with RSAs decision. But I dont think the circumstances 
of his claim are covered under the policy. So I dont think RSA needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman