complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2011. Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Capital One had to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr S says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional.
Capital One says the PPI was sold when Mr S called to activate his new credit card. And its 
sent us copies of the call scripts it says wouldve been used for these calls around that time. 
These scripts show that it wouldve been made clear that the policy was optional and that the 
consumer wouldve had to consent to the PPI.
Based on the evidence I have, and what I understand about Capital Ones sales practices at 
the time, I think its likely the call with Mr S broadly followed the scripts we have. So I think 
its likely Capital One did make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Capital One gave Mr S any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means Capital One didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr S. But it did have to make sure he got the information he 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And 
hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means he couldve used to make his 
repayments if he wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr S off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
DRN-1034209But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
 Capial One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr S,
that was unfair.
 To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman