DRN-2842804
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly brought about 
an unaffordable guarantor loan for him. He says any checks would have shown that he 
already had two guarantor loans, missed payments on his existing agreements and multiple 
default. 
  
Background and my provisional decision of 11 May 2021
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr B being 
provided with a guarantor loan in September 2014. The loan was for £3,000.00. The loan 
had a 36-month term and an APR of 48.9%. This meant that the total amount of £5,226.12, 
including interest of £2,226.12, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £145.17.
Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Match the Cash 
unfairly approved Mr Bs loan. So she upheld the complaint. As Match the Cash disagreed 
with our adjudicators view, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
On 11 May 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Bs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
Having carefully considered everything, I considered it fair and reasonable to have expected 
Match the Cash to have carried out reasonable enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances to check 
that hed be able to make the payments to this loan.
As I understood it, Match the Cash enquiries suggested Mr B was employed and earning 
around £2,269.00 a month. This was verified with three months worth of payslips. Mr Bs 
payslips showed that an amount was being deducted to cover council tax arrears. I also saw 
that Match the Cash carried out a credit check which showed Mr B had defaulted on 10 
separate accounts. And that 62 separate searches, most likely as a result of applications for 
credit, were carried out in the 12 months leading to the application for this loan. 
Given these circumstances, I thought it fair and reasonable to have expected further 
enquiries and for further evidence on Mr Bs financial circumstances to have been requested 
in order for it to have been fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to have approved this 
loan. I noted that Match the Cash said Mr B had explained that his past issues had been due 
to a previous separation and his council tax arrears and that he intended to overpay on this 
loan as hed cleared his previous arrears. But I didnt think that this was a plausible 
explanation bearing in mind the sheer number of previous defaults and Mr Bs need for 
further funds at a time where his financial position was supposedly improving.
So I thought that Match the Cash needed to obtain further information from Mr B to better 
understand his financial position before it brought about this loan for him. I thought that had 
this information been requested, Match the Cash would more likely than not have discovered 
that Mr B was gambling significant sums of money and this was the real reason for his 
previous credit difficulties. 
In these circumstances, I thought that Match the Cash ought to have realised that Mr B was 
simply unlikely to be able make the payments to this loan without experiencing financial 
difficulty. And as this was the case, I found that Match the Cashs failure to properly look into    
Mr Bs circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr B when it 
brought about this guarantor loan for him.   
As Mr B ended up paying interest and charges on a guarantor loan brought about by Match 
the Cash failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him, I was satisfied that Mr B lost out 
because of what Match the Cash did wrong. And I confirmed my intention to issue a final 
decision which said that Match the Cash needed to put things right.   
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision and his acceptance of it. He 
also provided nothing further for me to think about.
Match the Cash also responded. It disagreed with my provisional decision and in summary it 
said:
Id departed from the findings of our adjudicator on whether the checks were 
proportionate and hadnt explained why.
My provisional decision said multiple credit searches highlighted that Mr B was 
gambling and using the money for this. But while Mr B was making applications for 
credit the credit report did not identify any significant credit being entered into.
It obtained three payslips, a credit report and a copy of Mr Bs most recent bank 
statement before it decided to lend. It believes this amount of information was both 
reasonable and proportionate for a loan of £3,000.00. This information was used to 
verify the verbal income and expenditure assessment completed. Its unclear what 
information could have been requested in addition to Mr Bs bank statement.
Mr B hadnt disclosed his gambling at the time of the application or during the course 
of his complaint. This wasnt something the adjudicator had referred to either.
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Match the Cashs response, I 
can confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments it has made.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Match the Cashs arguments, I think its necessary for me to clarify a 
couple of matters.
Firstly, as I was passed Mr Bs case after Match the Cash disagreed with the adjudicator and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision my role was and remains to consider the complaint 
afresh and reach my own determination. It isnt to replicate the adjudicators assessment or 
offer a critique of her findings in the way Match the Cash appears to be suggesting.
Im satisfied I explained the reasons for my provisional decision and why I considered Match 
the Cashs checks before bringing about Mr Bs loan werent reasonable and proportionate. 
But for the avoidance of doubt and the sake of clarity, I think it would be useful for me to 
explain that it wasnt enough for Match the Cash to simply request information from Mr B. It needed to also reasonably evaluate, judge, appraise or scrutinise the information provided in 
order to have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B.
It isnt in dispute that Match the Cash did obtain a significant amount of information. And its 
possible that this information may well have been enough to support approving a loan 
application for £3,000.00 in certain circumstances. But I dont think it was enough to support 
approving this loan application in these circumstances. In my view, Match the Cash didnt 
apply a fair and reasonable degree of scrutiny to what was obtained, even when it didnt 
obviously support Mr Bs income and expenditure declarations nor support his explanation 
regarding the previous difficulties repaying credit, which the credit search showed hed had. 
I want to be clear that Im not saying this, in itself, meant it wasnt fair and reasonable for 
Match the Cash to bring about Mr Bs loan. What Im saying is it would have been fair and 
reasonable to find out more about Mr Bs circumstances and that if this had been done the 
real reasons for Mr Bs previous difficulties repaying credit would have been apparent. 
I also think Match the Cash has misunderstood my provisional decision. Match the Cash 
refers to my provisional decision finding that multiple credit searches highlighted Mr B was 
gambling and using the money for this. But Mr Bs credit file doesnt indicate that any 
applications for credit were successful. However, my provisional decision simply didnt say 
the multiple credit searches highlighted Mr B was gambling. What the provisional decision 
said was the 62 (not 69) searches indicated Mr B had a number of applications for credit. 
Whether its 62 individual applications or not (the search information indicates most of these 
searches took place on different days and are unlikely to all be due to broker involvement), I 
think this was indicative of someone who may have been desperate for credit. And it should 
fairly and reasonably prompted further investigation, rather than an unsubstantiated 
assumption that this was as a result of online broker involvement. 
Its also my view that Match the Cash is disingenuously querying what further information it 
could possibly have obtained from Mr B as it already had a bank statement from him. As a 
regulated firm, Id expect Match the Cash to know that what it obtained from Mr B wasnt a 
bank statement, but rather a list of the transactions made to and from his account. This 
transaction list showed the types and amounts of the transactions on the account but not 
where the vast majority of them were being made to. And its clear that most of the outgoings 
were as a result of point of sale transactions and account transfers. 
While its not clear who the payee is on the transaction list this isnt the case on the bank 
statements themselves. On the bank statements, it is immediately apparent that the vast 
majority of point of sale transactions are clearly being made to gambling companies. Given 
the sheer amount of the transactions, Mr Bs previous repayment difficulties and Match the 
Cash says the transaction list was requested to assess Mr Bs ability to repay any loan 
approved, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to have expected Match the Cash to have 
queried what these transactions on the transaction lists were, rather than turning a blind eye 
to them. This is why I think its fair and reasonable to have expected Match the Cash to have 
found out the real reason for Mr Bs previous repayment difficulties and wanting this loan.
Id also add that Mr B disclosed his difficulties with gambling in our completed complaint 
form, which was sent to Match the Cash when we asked for its file of papers. It might not 
have agreed with what Mr B says, but I simply dont agree that it wasnt informed of this prior 
to my provisional decision, or that it isnt a relevant consideration here.     
Overall and having considered all of the further points Match the Cash has made, Ive not 
been persuaded to alter the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision. And I 
remain satisfied that the available evidence supports Match the Cash having failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr B when bringing about this loan. As this is the case and   Mr B went on to pay interest and charges on a loan that should never have been brought 
about in the first place, Im satisfied that Mr B lost out as a result of Match the Cash failing to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him.  
Fair compensation  what Match the Cash needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Ive carefully thought about what Match the Cash should do to put things right in this case.
Match the Cash says it only received an arrangement fee as a result of operating the
platform and that any interest Mr B paid was passed directly to the lenders on the platform. 
In its view, this means that the arrangement fee is all Mr B is entitled to as a result of his 
complaint being upheld.
However, Ive already explained that Mr Bs loss as a result of Match the Cash not acting
fairly and reasonably towards him when operating the lending system which brought about
this guarantor loan, is all the interest and charges he paid. I dont think that the interest being 
paid to the lenders on the platform, rather than Match the Cash means it isnt responsible for 
these losses, or that its fair and reasonable for Mr B to bear the cost of this.
So having considered everything, including Match the Cashs submissions in relation to what
it considers to be fair compensation in this case, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the
Cash to put things right for Mr B in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman