DRN-4489112
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about the maturity of a mortgage endowment policy they held 
with Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out their endowment policy in 1992 over a 30-year term. It had a maturity 
date of 22 April 2022. At that time Scottish Widows records showed the policy had been 
assigned to multiple lenders, all of which had to confirm whether they still had an interest in 
the policy before the maturity value could be paid out. Unfortunately, this was a mistake and 
only two of the assignments had actually existed. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr and Mrs N on 23 February 2022 to remind them their policy 
was due to mature. It explained that its records showed the policy was assigned to multiple 
lenders and before it could pay out, it had to check if those assignments were still in place. 
Scottish Widows confirmed it had written to all of the lenders involved. 
Mr and Mrs Ns then current lender was sent a copy of the above letter on the same day. 
The letter was sent to the address Scottish Widows had on file, which was still an 
administration centre for the lenders business, but not at that time one that dealt with 
mortgages. Mr and Mrs N became aware that the letter hadnt been sent to the lenders 
mortgage administration centre, and they provided Scottish Widows with the correct address 
 this was done on 4 July 2022. Scottish Widows wrote to the lender again. 
On 6 July 2022 Mr and Mrs Ns lender acknowledged Scottish Widows letter and asked that 
maturity forms be sent to it for completion. It also confirmed it didnt hold the original policy 
documents. Scottish Widows sent the lender the requested documentation and the 
completed maturity form was received back on 19 August 2022.
On 14 September 2022 Scottish Widows sent the maturity proceeds to Mr and Mrs Ns 
lender. Scottish Widows quoted the roll number it was told to when the lender requested 
payment be paid to it  there was no other reference number detailed on the form for 
Scottish Widows to use. The funds were returned to Scottish Widows on 20 September 
2022, apparently as the mortgage number was not quoted in the transfer instruction. The 
payment was reissued to the lender on 17 October 2022 with both the roll number and a 
separate reference number. The payment went through correctly. 
Mr and Mrs N complained to Scottish Widows about the delays they experienced in 
attempting to have the maturity value paid to their lender. 
On 23 September 2023 Scottish Widows responded to the complaint and upheld it. It 
explained that before a maturity could be paid out, it had to check with all assignees that an 
interest was actually held, and if not, request a letter of no further interest. It then 
acknowledged that an administrative error had created additional assignees on the policy 
records  that there should have only been two  it established this was the case on 
27 May 2022.  It detailed the responses from the actual assignees and confirmed it had been 
unable to move forward with the maturity payment until after 19 August 2022. Payment was 
then made and should have been received within five working days. 
Scottish Widows went on to say that it was willing to consider reimbursing Mr and Mrs N for 
any additional costs and interest they incurred on their mortgage because of any delays. 
Scottish Widows reimbursed the cost of the telephone calls Mr and Mrs N had made to it 
while trying to sort out the problem. It also paid them £150 for the delay in the complaint 
having been dealt with and £300 for the inconvenience they experienced. 
Scottish Widows sent Mr and Mrs N a further response in a letter of 21 October 2022. It 
upheld the complaint about delays in resending the maturity funds to their lender and the 
general service theyd received. It paid them a further £150 compensation.
Subsequently, Scottish Widows reimbursed the mortgage interest payments Mr and Mrs N 
made between the policy maturity date and the date their lender received the maturity value. 
Mr and Mrs N werent happy with Scottish Widows responses and referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Following doing so, they said that while they had been 
reimbursed the cost to them of the delays, they didnt see why they shouldnt also receive 
simple interest of 8% on the maturity value too. They said in their mind the mortgage interest 
reimbursement should be regarded as a penalty.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. They said they didnt feel he had 
addressed or sought to remedy the stress and anxiety caused during the process of getting 
the maturity proceeds paid out. They said that the fact that the Investigator didnt feel they 
should be compensated for the delay in receiving funds at market rate of interest was an 
anathema to them. They said their mortgage could have been repaid in April 2022 out of 
savings, but they chose not to, fearing that the endowment policy had been a complete 
scam. As such, not to award interest on the funds for the period of the delay was 
unacceptable, regardless of where the funds were remitted. In light of this, they asked that 
the complaint be referred to an Ombudsman.
Scottish Widows accepted the Investigators conclusions and confirmed it had nothing 
further to add, following being told the complaint was being referred to an Ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 November 2023 in which I set out my conclusions about 
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint, and my reasons for reaching them.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is independent and impartial; we do not represent the interests of businesses, nor 
are we consumer champions. We do not supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we 
cover. As such, my role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or 
behaviour  thats the role of the Regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to 
see if Scottish Widows acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs N.
Following on from this, when we consider the appropriate redress in a case we propose to 
uphold, we aim to place the consumers in the financial position they would have been in, but 
for the error(s) on the part of the financial business. In this case I dont need to consider 
whether errors were made, as Scottish Widows has upheld the complaint already about 
delays having been caused. So all I need to do at this point is consider what it should have 
done to place Mr and Mrs N in the correct position and compensate them for any upset or 
inconvenience they have suffered.
I would also confirm that when we make awards of interest, we look at what actually happened. If it is not clear what would have happened to money that should have been paid 
out, but a consumer has been deprived of the use of, we will award the 8% simple interest 
that Mr and Mrs N have asked to be paid on the maturity value of the policy. However, where 
it is clear what would have happened to the funds, 8% simple interest is not usually the 
appropriate rate to award.
Scottish Widows has confirmed that only two of the assignments it had registered against 
the endowment policy were valid and should have been attached to its records. However, 
irrespective of the additional lenders it wrote to, it would always have had to write to the two 
lenders that potentially had valid assignments, as if those assignments were valid, it affected 
where Scottish Widows had to pay the maturity value. The first of the lenders wrote back to 
confirm that it no longer had an interest in the policy in May 2022. However, Mr and Mrs Ns 
then current lender didnt respond until July 2022, following further correspondence being 
sent to it. 
I note that Mr and Mrs N have highlighted that the initial correspondence was sent to an 
incorrect address for their lender. While this doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint, I 
think it would be helpful to explain at this point that when an assignment is recorded it will be 
recorded using the address the instruction came from. It is not unreasonable for a life 
assurance company to subsequently use that address when corresponding with the lender. 
While the relevant address was no longer a mortgage processing centre in 2022, it was still 
a valid address for an administration centre for the lender. It is not unusual for financial 
institutions that have various administration sites to change their function over time. It would 
be expected for correspondence to be transferred to the relevant department in such 
circumstances. I also note that the correspondence from Scottish Widows was not returned 
to it.
As such, until Scottish Widows received the maturity forms in August 2022, it was unable to 
pay out the maturity value. So, the position Mr and Mrs N would have been in up to that point 
is that they would still have had a mortgage debt and been paying interest. Scottish Widows 
would then have processed the maturity and transferred the money to the lender. This 
should not have taken the time it did, but it would still have taken a few days for the 
administration and up to five working days for the transfer to reach Mr and Mrs Ns lender 
through the banking system. 
As such, the financial position Mr and Mrs N would have been in was that they would have 
been paying mortgage interest until toward the latter part of August 2022, but they would 
then have made no further payments. In light of this, they would have been considered to 
have been deprived of the use of the interest payments made after the date the maturity 
payment should have been processed in August 2022 until they were reimbursed. We would 
usually expect 8% simple interest to be paid on the refunded interest payments. 
Scottish Widows has reimbursed Mr and Mrs N for the payments they made after their 
mortgage would have been paid off, as it should have, but also for those made before that 
back to the maturity date. So while Scottish Widows has not paid interest on the reimbursed 
mortgage payments from August 2022, it is likely that in reimbursing the earlier mortgage 
payments, it has likely placed them in a better financial position than they would have been 
in. As such, I dont consider that Scottish Widows needs to make any further payment to 
Mr and Mrs N for the loss of use of the maturity value. 
The only other financial loss involved in this case is that of the cost of the telephone calls 
that were made by Mr and Mrs N to chase up the maturity. Scottish Widows paid 
Mr and Mrs N £38.20 in this regard. They havent said that it was insufficient, and so I can 
only conclude it was an appropriate payment in the circumstances.In light of this the remaining issue is the amount Scottish Widows paid Mr and Mrs N for the 
upset and inconvenience they suffered. In total, Scottish Widows has paid them £450 for 
issues with the process of paying out the maturity value, plus an additional £150 for the 
added upset the delays in responding to their complaints would have caused them, given the 
circumstances. 
Before I consider the amounts Scottish Widows has paid out to Mr and Mrs N, I would 
explain that our rules set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, 
payment services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking 
services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in 
connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something the Regulator 
requires financial businesses to do, but that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity within 
the meaning of the rule. However, we are able to consider concerns about complaint 
handling in some limited circumstances, for example, if were upholding the underlying 
complaint that a consumer believes was mis-handled. Here, given the concerns associated 
with the complaint handling are the same as the underlying complaint  delays and poor 
service - I consider the issue of complaint handling is an ancillary issue we can look into.
Mr and Mrs N said in response to the Investigator that they didnt think he had addressed or 
sought to remedy the stress and anxiety caused during the process of getting the maturity 
proceeds paid out. When considering this issue, I can only take account of the effect that the 
mistakes Scottish Widows made, not the general situation. There was always going to be the 
possibility that the maturity value wouldnt be paid immediately because of the genuine 
assignments on the policy. Scottish Widows only directly caused some of the delay between 
the maturity date and payment date in this case. That said, there were delays and mistakes 
in Scottish Widows handling of the administration of the maturity payment, and the delays in 
the complaint handling would have compounded the upset those issues had already caused. 
However, and I know that Mr and Mrs N are unlikely to accept my conclusion in this regard, 
I am satisfied the £600 Scottish Widows has paid them in this regard is sufficient and if it had 
not been paid, I would have been unlikely to have awarded more.
Mr and Mrs N said they were disappointed with my provisional decision as they dont think it 
addresses the delay in them receiving their policy proceeds or the stress and anxiety they 
were caused. Mr N also asked to be paid for the time he spent making calls and writing 
emails to Scottish Widows and considered the £38.20 was inadequate based on how much 
he is paid per hour.
Scottish Widows didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied it received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that the amount Mr and Mrs N were paid for telephone calls was not a sum 
to reflect the time spent communicating with Scottish Widows, but rather the actual cost of 
the calls made. If the costs Mr and Mrs N incurred were more than that for the calls they 
shouldnt have needed to make, it would be reasonable for Scottish Widows to pay the 
additional costs. However, they have confirmed they are unable to evidence the cost of the 
calls made and so it would not be reasonable for me to make a further award in this respect. 
Mr N has asked to be paid for the time he spent making telephone calls and sending emails 
before the maturity value was paid out. I can understand why that would be the case, however, we dont ask financial businesses to pay consumers for time spent dealing with 
situations and complaints as Mr N has suggested. However, we do consider the time and 
effort a consumer spends on trying to rectify a mistake made by a financial business when 
deciding if they have suffered any non-financial loss. I wont repeat what I have said about 
the circumstances of the maturity in relation to what needed to happen before 
Scottish Widows was able to pay out the maturity value, but I remain satisfied the 
compensation already paid is adequate, given the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman