DRN-3344477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain to Wealth Planning Limited (WPL) about the administration, costs 
and charges relating to their investment portfolio. They also say theyve been incorrectly 
charged VAT on some fees paid.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I will not repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead, Ill summarise whats happened, in my own words, before focusing on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs S were first clients of a firm (F1), thats since been integrated into the legal entity 
of WPL, before their accounts were switched over to another firm (F2). For ease Ill generally 
look to refer to WPL directly where possible throughout my decision.
Mr and Mrs S complained to WPL in July 2020 about advice previously received from F1. In 
short, the four main points they were unhappy about were:
The payment of transaction fees to F1 in addition to ongoing advisor fees.
The associated costs of their recommended investment account in comparison to 
available alternatives.
The switchover from F1 to F2 resulting in their decision to appoint another advisor.
The VAT payable on ongoing fees paid to F1.
WPL didnt uphold the complaint points raised, however while conducting their investigation 
found theyd overcharged Mr and Mrs S transfer out costs applied to the asset funds 
transferred in-specie by £525. To put things right, WPL compensated Mr and Mrs S £525.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with WPLs response, so they referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and while she didnt think WPL needed to do 
anything to put things right in respect of the complaint points raised, she said Mr and Mrs S 
had been deprived of the £525 theyd been overcharged so WPL should pay interest at 8% 
from the date the fees were taken to the date the refund was paid.
Following questions raised by WPL regarding our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, our 
Investigator considered the time limit rules we must follow and said she thought Mr and Mrs 
S had raised their complaint in time, including their concerns about VAT applied to fees 
since 2014.
WPL accepted our Investigators opinion on our jurisdiction. Our Investigator looked into 
things further but remained of the view that aside from paying the interest Ive mentioned 
above, WPL didnt need to do anything else to put things right. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with 
our Investigator. As no resolution could be reached this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion of our investigator about Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
But first, When Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service, they confirmed their 
complaint points were in line with those Ive set out in the What happened section of this 
decision.
These points are the issues WPL looked into and what our Investigator considered. During 
the course of the investigation some complaint points seem to have drifted away from the 
original issue. And even though we have an inquisitorial remit, I need to make a decision 
based on the issues that were originally raised and looked into by WPL. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on the original issues complained about and on what I think are the key issues here. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to 
the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, or if I dont comment on any specific point, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I think its also relevant and important to emphasise that The Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the processes a business puts in place, 
enforce changes upon them or set out to punish them. My role is instead to consider 
individual disputes and decide if I think the business acted fairly and reasonably. 
I consider the crux of this complaint to consist of four key points  the complaint points 
initially raised by Mr and Mrs S, including the addition of VAT being payable which appears 
to remain the point in most dispute. Its these Ill focus on, and Ill address each complaint 
point below.
The payment of transaction fees to F1
Ive reviewed the annual disclosure of costs and charges letter Mr and Mrs S were sent in 
May 2020 and can see it included a Transaction Costs and Charges fee of £200. It is this 
charge in particular which Mr and Mrs S specifically questioned.
Mr and Mrs S have acknowledged and understand the response provided explaining these 
fees but remain of the opinion there was a more appropriate solution which would have 
avoided such costs.
I can see WPL have further explained the costs and charges were made up of fees charged 
by product providers, platforms, and fund managers for example. And that theyd always 
existed, however just not previously explicitly disclosed prior to MiFID II regulations.I acknowledge Mr and Mrs S had concerns about the fees, which ultimately played a part in 
their move to another advisor. But that doesnt mean charges and fees were applied 
incorrectly. On balance Im satisfied they were. And from the evidence Ive seen, Im also 
satisfied WPL disclosed the charges in a clear, transparent and not misleading manner, in 
line with the requirements of the regulations in place at the time.
I can see WPL have identified where fees were incorrectly charged and have looked to put 
this right. I understand Mr and Mrs S frustration that this only came to light when they 
queried the costs and are concerned about previous fees that mightve been overcharged 
both to themselves and others. But I must focus on the individual complaint brought to me. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest the overcharged transfer out fees incurred when the 
switch to a new adviser took place was anything more than a standalone error.
I dont think WPL need to do anything to put things right here.
The associated costs of their recommended investment platform in comparison to 
available alternatives
Mr and Mrs S understandably question why alternative, and cheaper, options werent 
recommended instead of the platform they were sold. Especially as other elements of their 
portfolio were managed in a platform that demanded what they considered far more 
reasonable costs and charges. They say theres no reason why WPLs preferred 
investments couldnt have been accessed via the cheaper option.
WPL have set out why the investment platform recommended for specific portfolios differed 
based on the capabilities of the platforms, the size of the holdings, the range of assets and 
type of investment.
WPL considered that Mr and Mrs S investment portfolio which included their Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISAs), and the re-investment of tax-free cash was big enough to benefit 
from the bespoke discretionary service offered by the platform recommended.
In addition to the bespoke service, the platform recommended allowed the portfolio to be 
adequately diversified, had access to investment trusts and exchange-traded funds, and 
offered real time trading as opposed to only being rebalanced once each quarter. Features 
such as no capital gains tax management and the ability to have managed consolidated 
accounts were also features of the platform.
Cheaper alternative options, such as the account used for a smaller element of their portfolio 
would have come without these features in comparison.
At the time, in 2015, due to the size of Mr and Mrs S portfolio, WPL considered it justified 
the bespoke discretionary platform they recommended. The service gave greater 
management and investment flexibility than could be accessed through cheaper alternatives.
I can see WPL provided a detailed letter of recommendation setting out both the benefits 
and associated costs of the account. Im satisfied information was set out in a clear and not-
misleading manner prior to Mr and Mrs S proceeding.
Different accounts attracted varying levels of fees based on the functions offered. I 
understand Mr and Mrs S feel a greater level of understanding is needed to determine if the 
advice received was suitable and in their best interests. But WPL had to try and offer best 
advise based on the circumstances at the time, with a view to best achieving Mr and Mrs S 
investment aims.And I also must consider the suitability of the advice as it was at the time, without the benefit 
of hindsight. On balance Im satisfied the advice given, and accounts recommended were 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S. So, I dont consider WPL need to take any action here.
The switchover from F1 to F2
It was unfortunate there was an unplanned acquisition by F2 of F1 in 2019, for reasons 
known and which I will not repeat in this decision.
Mr and Mrs S felt uncomfortable with the switchover, and I can understand why they may 
have felt that way. But its evident from the notes recorded from Mr and Mrs S annual review 
that year it was made clear the switch to F2 would incur them no additional costs.
Im satisfied the costs and charges relating to Mr and Mrs S accounts unrelated to the 
switch were made clear from the outset. And that any additional fees incurred were as a 
result of Mr and Mrs S deciding to appoint an alternative adviser. This was a decision they 
were entitled to make but I dont think WPL should be held responsible for those fees.
WPL have acknowledged Mr and Mrs S were overcharged on the level of transfer out fees 
applied to the assets funds transferred in-specie, refunding £525 to them.
But on referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said WPL should also 
pay interest on that sum. WPL agreed to our Investigators opinion. And I also agree.
WPL should pay Mr and Mrs S interest at 8% simple, from the date the fees were 
overcharged until the date they were refunded.  This compensates Mr and Mrs S for the time 
they were without those funds.
The VAT payable on ongoing fees paid to F1 prior to 2015
Mr and Mrs S say they are of the understanding VAT shouldnt have been payable on the 
ongoing fees paid to F1 because VAT should not be charged on an initial fee if theres a 
product which is planned to be entered. In addition, if the ongoing advice relates to the initial 
advice and the product recommended, then no VAT should be payable.
In addition, Mr and Mrs S say whilst its been agreed VAT is payable on discretionary 
services, this is not the service they received at the outset as the platforms provided didnt 
have such permissions in place.
WPL disagree regarding the platform permissions and have confirmed the platform assets 
were held on from the outset did offer a discretionary investment management service.
I can see on Mr and Mrs S initial investment advice invoice; VAT wasnt added to the 
amount charged. Im satisfied this was because it was deemed a product and was advised. 
But it was the subsequent quarterly investment fees where VAT was added to the amount 
due.
WPL say the portfolio was managed under a discretionary arrangement and the introduction 
of clients to a discretionary manager isnt an exempt transaction. Whilst the manager may 
have chosen to subsequently invest in exempt assets, this didnt impact the VAT treatment 
of the service provided. Both ongoing advice and investment management fees were subject 
to VAT.
Ive seen the holistic report written in 2014 which clearly explains after the initial fee, based 
on the value of Mr and Mrs Ss investments, excluding Mrs S pension, trail commissions or any ongoing fees from providers would equate to £632.57. And that it was this amount upon 
which VAT would be payable.
The report also set out a quarterly valuation would be provided, and the portfolio updated 
and rebalanced as required during the year.
It certainly isnt straightforward as to when VAT should be applied or is exempt, especially 
due to the passage of time thats passed. But from the information Ive seen and taking into 
consideration WPL stood to benefit nothing from VAT being applied, on balance, which is the 
test I must use, Im satisfied WPL acted fairly and reasonably when applying VAT to the fees 
they did.
Summary
In summary, Im aware my decision isnt adding greatly to what Mr and Mrs S have 
previously been told and they feel strongly about their complaint. But on balance Im satisfied 
WPL acted fairly and reasonably, and I dont think they need to do anything more than what 
theyve already done or whats already been set out.
Putting things right
WPL should pay Mr and Mrs S interest at 8% simple, from the date the overcharged transfer 
out fees were paid until the date they refunded the £525. 
If WPL considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest due to Mr and Mrs S, they should tell them how much theyve taken off.
They should also give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Wealth Planning Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs S interest as set out 
above, and I think this offer is fair to resolve this complaint in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Wealth Planning Limited should pay interest as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman