DRN-2665970
The complaint
Mr P complains that he lost money when making a payment to his account with Revolut Ltd 
(Revolut).
What happened
On 19 December 2019, Mr P made a transfer of £3000 from his bank to his account at 
Revolut. He got the account number wrong by two digits. He told Revolut what had 
happened on 24 December 2019. By then, the money had gone from the beneficiarys 
account. 
Mr P complained. He said that Revolut shouldve been able to check that the beneficiary was 
not genuine and blocked the payment. He wanted his money back from Revolut. He said he 
suspected something fraudulent had happened at Revolut because also he tried to make 
another transfer of £1 to the wrong account number and it had been returned  as the 
account was closed.
Revolut said they couldnt disclose any details about what had happened due to data 
protection regulations. But Mr P should contact the police to investigate.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
She said Revolut had acted reasonably and did what would be expected of them. Where 
there was clear evidence of a mistake  as was the case here, they shouldve tried to 
contact the recipient of the funds to get them back, and theyd done that. All the money had 
been spent almost immediately after the £3000 was credited to the account in question. She 
suggested that Mr P consider legal action to try to recover his money.
Mr P asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ps complaint in detail. The loss of £3000 is significant for him and I can 
see how disturbing this must have been. We asked Revolut a number of questions about 
what happened here to ensure they did all they could  and its clear they did.
Mr P had told us that he made a mistake when he made the payment transfer from his bank 
to his account at Revolut. Two digits of the eight-digit account number were wrong. In such 
circumstances, we want to ensure that Revolut acted properly and did all they could to 
recover the money. These guidelines are set out in the Payment Services Regulations (PSR) 
 these say that where a payment has gone to the wrong account by mistake  then the 
business (Revolut) must take reasonable steps to recover the money. 
Ive looked at what happened. Mr P made the payment on 19 December 2019. He told 
Revolut about his mistake on 24 December 2019. Revolut told us that by the time Mr P 
reported this to them, all the money had been spent  through many card payments, ATM 
withdrawals and currency payments. They blocked the account immediately on 24 
December 2019 and tried to contact the account holder to try to get the money back  but 
without any success. Ive seen what they did and am satisfied that Revolut fulfilled what they 
had to do.
Mr P told us he tried to make a £1 transfer before he called Revolut on 24 December 2019  
and so he asked why that was rejected as Revolut didnt then know about what had 
happened. We asked Revolut and Mr P about this  and found out that in fact, the £1 
payment was made later  on 7 February 2020. So, by that time, the beneficiary account had 
been blocked, and so it was obvious why that payment had then been rejected.  
Mr P told us that he was pursuing his loss through the police and the courts  and under the 
circumstances, this is the right thing to do.
But  and I can appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision  Revolut did all they 
could to help Mr P and recover the money, so I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman