DRN-2571208
The complaint
Mr E complains that Bamboo Limited provided him with loans which he says were 
unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr E with loans as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
Loan 1 01/08/2018 £1,000 18 Months £88.85
Loan 2 18/02/2019 £1,682.73 24 Months £127.83
Loan 3 29/10/2019 £2,194.04 36 Months £132.85
After reviewing this complaint Bamboo offered to settle Mr Es complaint about loan 3 in the 
way we would expect a lender to do. So our investigator has concentrated on looking at 
Mr Es complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Mr E mainly said that he felt Bamboo had unfairly refused his affordability complaint and that 
hed been borrowing from one lender to pay other lenders and struggling with serious 
financial difficulty. He doesnt feel that Bamboo checked properly before providing the loans. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt think she had seen enough to uphold 
Mr Es complaint about loan 1. But she recommended upholding the complaint about loan 2 
and she set out the steps Bamboo needed to take to put things right. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said that during the 
application process it conducted proportionate creditworthiness and affordability checks 
before approving the loan application. And although it didnt think it had needed to ask for 
bank statements at the time, having now seen these it didnt think they made any difference 
to its lending decision. Bamboo said that Mr Es credit history was typical for its customers 
and not a concern. It said Mr E had made the repayments on loan 1 without any sign of 
difficulty and he was paying more than the minimum towards his credit cards and also 
spending on non-essentials which showed that he was making progress towards clearing 
debt and he had sufficient disposable income. 
Bamboo told us that if Mr E would like to make lower monthly repayments he should get in 
touch direct and it will review all options and offer a temporary reduced payment plan if 
required. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled yet and Bamboo has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill set out my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind in coming to my decision on Mr Es case.
As Bamboo has agreed to uphold this part of Mr Es complaint I dont need to say anything 
more about loan 3  apart from including the loan in the redress part of my decision.
And as far as I can see, Mr E hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I havent seen enough to say that Bamboo shouldnt have provided this loan  
so Im not upholding this part of Mr Es complaint.   
Like our investigator, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided loan 2. Ill explain why 
I say this.
Bamboo asked Mr E some questions about his income and expenditure. Bamboo did its own 
checks, which included using an online tool to verify Mr Es income. It obtained information 
about Mr Es credit history and relied on statistical information about how much someone in 
Mr Es position typically spent each month on basic essentials. 
Bamboo gathered information that showed Mr Es take home pay was around £2,400. Using 
national average figures to reflect his living costs, plus the amount Mr E said he was paying 
towards his housing costs, and after also allowing for Mr E spending around £721 on his 
other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that, after making the monthly repayments 
for this loan, Mr E would still have around £650 spare cash. So the loan looked comfortably 
affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Mr E. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Mr E based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that Mr Es level of 
debt had almost doubled in the space of six months or so between loan 1 and loan 2  
going up from £9,611 to £18,290. I've taken into account that Mr E was still only using 
around 55% of his available credit - but the equivalent figure when he took out loan 1 
had been just 36%. So it was apparent that within this short space of time Mr E 
seemed to have become significantly more reliant on credit. The fact that he had other 
available credit doesnt mean that the loan Bamboo provided was affordable for him. 
And although Bamboo thought the reason Mr E gave for the loan purpose was 
plausible, I think that further checks ought to have been done to gain a deeper 
understanding of Mr Es financial circumstances, particularly bearing in mind that he 
would be making the loan repayments for the next two years.
I dont think Bamboo thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed 
about Mr Es overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had calculated that 
he had disposable income of approximately £777 each month which, to my mind, 
wouldve seemed at odds with what it saw on the credit checks it had carried out. 
I think Bamboo should have considered carefully why someone with the amount of 
disposable income its checks suggested Mr E had would have needed to make use of 
expensive credit the way it could see Mr E was doing. And I dont think, based on what 
Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo saw enough to reasonably be 
satisfied that Mr E was going to be able to make the repayments for this loan in a 
sustainable way. 
I think that Bamboo shouldve done more in-depth checks when considering Mr Es 
loan application. 
I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the amount borrowed, 
the total repayments Mr E would have to make for this loan and the length of the loan 
term all lead me to think, on balance, that Bamboo should have carried out a complete 
review of Mr Es finances and done more to verify what he had told it  especially 
bearing in mind also what it saw on the credit checks it did carry out.I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr E which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Mr Es overall financial situation at the time. I've taken into account that 
Bamboo says this information wouldnt have put it off lending to Mr E. But I think, if Bamboo 
had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that 
this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Mr E. I can see that, far from having the 
amount of disposable income left over each month that Bamboo had calculated, in reality 
Mr E was struggling to keep his bank account in credit. In January 2019 for instance, the 
account was in credit for one day only when his pay went into the account and took his 
balance up to £445.84. Otherwise, the account was generally overdrawn by a four figure 
amount - and Mr E was paying daily overdraft fees for this. 
I think, had it done a proportionate check, Bamboo wouldve most likely realised that this 
loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr E when he was already struggling to 
get through the month without needing to rely on credit, not making any real headway 
towards clearing his outstanding debts and he had other new debt that needed to be paid 
alongside this loan from Bamboo. 
I think thats borne out by the fact that when this loan was paid into his account, it served 
only to reduce Mr Es overdraft from around £1,961 to just over £1,000. And by the end of 
the month he was £1,788 overdrawn. And Ive seen nothing showing that his financial 
situation improved in the following months. So I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to 
make me think that Bamboos loan helped Mr E to improve his financial situation. 
All this leads me to conclude that Bamboo should not have provided loan 2. 
As Mr E has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr E some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to 
take the following steps to put things right.  
I am grateful to Bamboo for the time and trouble it has taken to provide its detailed 
response to this complaint  and I appreciate that its offer in respect of loan 3 was made 
in a genuine attempt to settle the complaint at an early stage. But for all the reasons 
I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to take the following 
steps to put things right. 
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr E shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out loans 2 and 3. 
But he has had to pay interest and charges on  loans that shouldnt have been provided to 
him  which isnt fair or reasonable. With this in mind, Bamboo should: add up the total amount of money Mr E received as a result of being given 
loans 2 and 3 (not including anything already refunded).The payments Mr E 
made should be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Mr E having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr E bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Es credit file regarding these loans
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint about loans 2 and 3 and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman