DRN-1934031
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened
In July 2019 cash4unow provided Mr D an instalment loan, due to be repaid by six monthly 
repayments. 
Heres a table setting with detailss:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 28/07/2019 Outstanding 6 £300.00 £98.23
Mr D feels that cash4unow shouldnt have provided him with this loan as it was used to 
repay other short term loans when his debt was spiralling out of control.
When he complained to cash4unow it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. But it made a 
goodwill offer to reduce Mr Ds outstanding balance in order to resolve the complaint. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this response and he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint. As the checks cash4unow did showed that Mr D 
already had three other loans outstanding with short term lenders when he applied for this 
loan, our adjudicator thought cash4unow shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed 
picture of his financial situation. She felt that proportionate checks would most likely have 
shown Mr D was having problems managing his money and spending a large proportion of 
his income on online betting sites. So our adjudicator said cash4unow shouldnt have 
provided the loan and she gave detailed directions setting out what she thought cash4unow 
should do to put things right for Mr D. 
Cash4unow disagreed. It mainly said (Im summarising here) that Mr D had ample 
disposable income and the checks it did showed the loan was comfortably affordable for 
him. Its view was that Mr D was using this type of credit as it should be used. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cash4unow was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Cash4unow has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr D. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell cash4unow what he normally spent each month. And 
cash4unow also carried out checks on Mr Ds credit file. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for cash4unow to provide this loan to 
Mr D. Heres why I say this.
Although the loan looked comfortably affordable on the figures Mr D gave, cash4unow was 
aware that he already had three other short term loans outstanding with other lenders. I think 
this borrowing shouldve prompted cash4unow to carry out more thorough checks into his 
financial situation before agreeing to lend because this apparent reliance on short term 
borrowing looked to be at odds with what Mr D had told cash4unow about his financial 
circumstances.  I think cash4unow should have taken steps to verify what Mr D was saying about his 
financial circumstances. Cash4unow hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it 
carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr D. 
Mr D has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what cash4unow 
was likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a 
reasonable picture of Mr Ds finances at the time. And had cash4unow looked in depth at 
Mr Ds finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his 
money. On top of the other short term loans it knew about, I think it also would have learned 
that Mr D was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to be gambling 
transactions. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for cash4unow to think that it was likely Mr D 
would be able sustainably to repay his borrowing  so it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Putting things right
what cash4unow needs to do 
If cash4unow has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If cash4unow isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on this loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr D as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. If this results in Mr D having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of the loan then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr D. 
And if this still leaves an outstanding balance then cash4unow should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr D.
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ds credit file for this loan (once it is repaid) - 
and ask the debt purchaser to do the same if cash4unow sold this loan on. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. cash4unow 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Novaloans Ltd (trading as 
cash4unow) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman