DRN-3609302
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K are unhappy that TSB Bank plc blocked a payment out of their joint current 
account.
Whats happened?
On 11 May 2021, TSBs fraud team blocked a faster payment from Mr K and Mrs Ks joint 
TSB account to Mr Ks sole account with another bank (the payment). Mr K spoke to the 
bank about the payment over the telephone and provided electronic identification 
documents. But TSB still had some concerns, so it placed a security block on Mr K and    
Mrs Ks account and asked them to attend a branch with identification documents to discuss 
the payment further. Mr K told the bank that neither he nor Mrs K were able to attend a 
branch because of their disabilities and, as COVID-19 restrictions prevented the bank from 
carrying out home visits at that time, it arranged for the police to visit them instead. But Mr K 
and Mrs K say the police never attended and the security block remains on their account. As 
a result, they have been unable to pay their bills, and theyve incurred interest and charges. 
Theyd like TSB to pay them £100 to cover their costs.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. So, Mr K and Mrs K asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether TSB has done anything wrong in this matter and, if it has, 
what it should do to put things right.
Ive looked at Mr K and Mrs Ks joint account statements in the 12 months preceding the 
payment and I can see that, other than an incoming and outgoing standing order to the same 
value every month, there was no activity on the account. The account always kept a credit 
balance of just under £4,000. So, I consider that the payment was unusual and out of 
character. And, as it also depleted the account balance, I can see why TSB was suspicious 
about the payment and wanted to carry out further checks before processing it. Such 
security measures aim to protect the bank and its customers, and they are provided for 
within the account terms and conditions. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
TSB to refuse to make the payment and place a security block on Mr K and Mrs Ks account 
until it had carried out adequate security checks.
I can see that Mr K contacted TSB on 15 May 2021 to advise that he and Mrs K could not 
attend a branch. TSBs records show that the bank arranged for the police to visit them 
instead, in accordance with Banking Protocol. So, Im satisfied that the bank arranged a 
reasonable alternative, as I would expect it to have done. Mr K says that the police never 
turned up, but I cant see that he informed the bank of this until just before a complaint about 
TSB was raised with this Service. So, Im not persuaded that the bank can reasonably be 
expected to have done more to assist Mr K and Mrs K. 
I can appreciate Mr K and Mrs Ks frustration but, overall, Im not persuaded that TSB has 
done anything wrong that it needs to put right in this case.
If Mr K and Mrs K still wish to make the payment and/or if theyd like to withdraw their funds 
from the account before closing it as theyve expressed, they may consider contacting the 
bank again to find out what it can do to assist them now that COVID-19 restrictions have 
been relaxed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman