DRN-3329585
The complaint
Mr J complains about a fixed sum loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go limited, (L2G) which 
he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr J with a loan of £500 on 13 March 2020. The loan was to be repaid 
over 18 Monthly instalments of £114.28. Mr J has repaid the loan.
Mr J says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been given to him.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 January 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
As set out above, Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr J about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check. It says it verified Mr Js 
income using an online verification tool and then assessed Mr Js expenditure using the 
credit check results it had gathered.
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how Loans 2 Go carried out its checks. But Im not 
satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure 
the repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of time;
Loans 2 Gos analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Js 
declared income and credit expenditure;
The discrepancy between Mr Js declared expenditure (£271) and what it had 
verified it to be (£1009.45) was significantly wide. There was a difference in what 
Mr J had declared and what it found out.
Loans 2 Go would have seen in its credit checks that Mr J had taken out a mail 
order account and this was in arrears. 
Mr J also had a default registered against his name and there was a balance 
outstanding on this account still, to be repaid.
I think when I consider all that I have concluded above, I think Loans 2 Go ought to have 
had enough concerns to ask for more. I consider Loans 2 Gos checks should have 
included a full review of Mr Js financial circumstances, including further verification of his 
income and expenditure so it could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable over 
the term of the loan.
I need to think about what Loans 2 Go would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Our investigator asked Mr J through his representatives to provide his bank 
statements from around the time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this 
is the check that Loans 2 Go should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements 
would give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
Mr J has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and 
around when he took out the loan though. So, I havent been able to see what Loans 2 Go 
would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I am 
unable to safely conclude that Mr J was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
In conclusion, I do think the discrepancy between the information Mr J provided and what 
Loans 2 Go saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better checks. And Ive not 
been able to see what better checks would have shown Loans 2 Go, so on this occasion I 
havent been able to draw any conclusions about this, other than I cant say that the loan 
was unaffordable for Mr J.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not currently upholding Mr Js complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Both parties did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not responded. So, with this being the case, I dont see any reason to 
depart from my findings within my provisional decision. So, I do not uphold Mr Js 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman