DRN-3518182
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that AXA Insurance UK plc declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. They also complain about the difficulties they had in contacting AXA. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. They took a family trip and planned to return to the UK on 1 November 2021, 
via two connecting flights. 
Mr and Mrs J and their family were denied boarding by the airline. The airline said that 
the wrong flight number was on the passenger locator form. Mr and Mrs J bought new 
flights in order to return home. 
Mr and Mrs J made a claim against their policy in relation to the additional cost of their 
new return flights. They say that they had difficulty getting through to AXA in relation to 
their claim and complaint. 
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Js claim. It said that what happened here wasnt covered  by 
the policy. Mr and Mrs J pursued their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J say that the airline was wrong to say that theyd entered an incorrect flight 
number on the passenger locator form. They want AXA to pay their claim. Mr and Mrs J 
also complain about the difficulties they had in contacting AXA about their claim and 
about how it handled their complaint. 
After Mr and Mrs J made their complaint to this service, AXA offered Mr and Mrs J 
compensation of £150 in relation to service issues. Mr and Mrs J didnt think that was 
fair. Mr and Mrs J subsequently received a refund from their credit card provider in 
relation to their unused return flights. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim as what happened here wasnt covered by the policy. 
The investigator thought that the compensation of £150 AXA had offered in relation to 
service issues was fair. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs J responded to say, in summary:
The airline was wrong to deny them boarding.
If its not possible for AXA to list every eventuality in the policy, why is what 
happened here regarded as not covered?
Their claim is as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic in that it relates to additional 
documentation required for travel.
Mr and Mrs J asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
Section 13: Travel Disruption Cover
[]
What IS covered:
[]
On the way home
6. We will pay You up to
a) £5,000 for Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis 
and hire cars) and accommodation costs [] that You cannot claim back 
from any other source. 
b) []
c) if You have to make alternative arrangements to return to Your Home [] as 
a result of:
i) The Public Transport on which You were booked to travel to Your Home 
Area including connections being cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours, 
diverted or re-directed after take-off; or
ii) You being involuntarily denied boarding (because there are too many 
passengers for the seats available) and no suitable alternative flight could be 
provided within 12 hours; or
iii) The insolvency of the Public Transport operator or their booking agents.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr and Mrs Js complaint because I dont think that AXA treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. Its not the case that an event is insured unless 
its specifically excluded in the policy. The onus is on the consumer to show that 
the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover. 
Mr and Mrs J say that they were denied boarding by the airline because it 
concluded, incorrectly, that their passenger locator form contained an incorrect 
flight number. Its not for me to decide whether the airline made a mistake in 
denying Mr and Mrs J boarding  this service has no jurisdiction over airlines. But I 
can decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in subsequently declining 
their claim. 
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy.             
Mr and Mrs Js flight wasnt delayed, and they didnt miss their departure for any of the insured reasons mentioned in Section 5: Travel Delay/Missed Departure, 
so that part of the policy doesnt assist them here. 
Ive looked at Section 13: Travel Disruption Cover, an extract of which Ive set 
out above. That part of the policy provides that AXA will pay up to £5,000 for 
reasonable additional travel costs Mr and Mrs J cant claim back from anywhere 
else if they have to make alternative arrangements to return home as a result of     
i) public transport delay for at least 12 hours, ii) the airline involuntarily denying 
boarding because there are too many passengers for the available seats and not 
offering a suitable alternative or iii) the insolvency of the public transport operator. 
None of those insured events are what happened here. 
Mr and Mrs J were denied boarding because the airline decided that their 
passenger locator form was incorrect. Thats not something thats covered by the 
policy. Mr and Mrs J havent shown that their claim falls under one of the agreed 
areas of cover within the policy, so I dont think that AXA was at fault in declining 
their claim. 
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the difficulties they had in contacting AXA 
about their claim. Mrs J says that she submitted the claim online and when she  
checked its status a few days later, it had disappeared from the portal. She tried to 
contact AXA by phone but was unable to get through after being on hold for a 
considerable amount of time. AXA has offered Mr and Mrs J compensation of £150 
in relation to service issues. I think thats fair. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience             
Mr and Mrs J suffered as a result of the issues they had in making their claim.
Mr and Mrs J have also expressed concern about how AXA handled their complaint. 
Our service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant 
consider any concerns Mr and Mrs J have raised about the handling of their 
complaint  as distinct from their claim - because it isnt a regulated activity.
I appreciate that what happened was no doubt frustrating for Mr and Mrs J and 
caused them considerable additional expense but for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think AXA was at fault in declining their claim for additional flight costs. 
Considering everything, I think that the offer of compensation AXA has already made 
in relation to service issues is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA should pay to Mr and Mrs J the compensation of £150 it has 
offered to pay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer of compensation of £150 AXA Insurance UK plc has made 
is fair and reasonable and I dont direct it to pay any more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman