DRN-4270953
The complaint
Mrs O complained that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) continued to send her 
arrears communication when they shouldnt have.
What happened
Mrs O referred a complaint to us along with her representative. As the complainant is Mrs O, 
for ease, I have addressed my decision to her only throughout, when referring to what she 
and her representative have told us.
Similarly, at times, a third-party company acted on behalf of Oodle when communicating with 
Mrs O. For ease, I will refer to Oodle throughout when referring to the actions of Oodle or the 
third-party company acting on behalf of them.
Mrs O acquired a used car by entering into a Hire Purchase Agreement with Oodle in August 
2018. Mrs O said she later entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). 
Mrs O said the agreement with Oodle was voluntarily surrendered in July 2019 and the car 
was returned. Mrs Os IVA was then amended to include this specific debt and Oodle were 
later approved as a creditor. This meant that payments for any arrears would have reached 
Oodle directly from Mrs Os IVA company and practitioner.
Mrs O said that her IVA was successfully completed in January 2022 and she believed the 
dividends had been submitted to the relevant creditors, including Oodle.
A Notice Of Sums Arrears was sent to Mrs O in March 2022. Mrs O said she found this very 
upsetting as she understood her IVA to have been settled and didnt believe there was any 
shortfall on the debt that she was liable for.
Oodle contacted Mrs O again in August 2022.
Mrs O complained to Oodle in August 2022 about the arrears correspondence she received 
from them. She believed Oodle wrongfully contacted her and should have only contacted her 
IVA company if they believed there was outstanding arrears left to pay.
Oodle responded to Mrs O in October 2022. They said Mrs Os IVA company confirmed in 
September 2022 that no payment had been made to them, and that a payment was 
scheduled for the following day. They went on to say that they didnt uphold her complaint as 
her IVA company hadnt sent any funds across to their finance team. They also said while 
Mrs O didnt expect to receive any communication from them while she was in an IVA, it was 
generic communication to explain the outstanding arrears on her account because the IVA 
company hadnt sent any funds across to them.
Mrs O said that she felt intimidated by the communication Oodle sent to her and as a result, 
she felt she had to do a lot of chasing to try to get to the bottom of the issue.
Mrs O remained unhappy with Oodles response and so, she referred her complaint to our 
service. During our involvement, Oodle confirmed to our investigator that there was no 
record to show a payment was returned and that it was only successfully received in 
September 2022.
Our investigator found that Oodle didnt need to do anything further. In summary, he said 
that he was satisfied Oodle had sent Mrs O arrears correspondence fairly, in line with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CRA). 
Mrs O disagreed with the investigators findings. She believed that the frequency of both 
calls and correspondence by Oodle to her was oppressive and heavy handed. She also 
believed it was Oodle who had changed their bank details and hadnt informed her IVA 
company, so was to blame for not receiving the funds when expected. Mrs O felt 
compensation of around £250 was a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Our investigator asked Oodle if the account details the payment they received from the IVA 
company was the same account details initially given to them. And whether Oodles bank 
details changed at any time during the IVA. 
Oodle confirmed the bank details were correct and were the same at the time the IVA was 
set up. They suggested the IVA company may not have sent the payment with a remittance 
and so they hadnt been able to allocate it to Mrs Os account. Oodle said the only payment 
received for Mrs Os account was in September 2022.
Mrs Os offer for Oodle to pay £250 to resolve this complaint was put forward to Oodle but 
they did not agree to it.
Our investigator also asked Oodle for details of any calls it or any third-party acting on its 
behalf made to Mrs O from January 2022 onwards. Oodle confirmed no calls were made to 
Mrs O by itself or by a third party acting on its behalf. They said the only correspondence 
they sent to Mrs O was in March 2022, where their system automatically generated a Notice 
Of Sums In Arrears letter.
Mrs O hasnt provided call logs during the times she said she received calls from Oodle, but 
has provided a brief recollection of the times she said she was called.
Oodle also said they received a final report from Mrs Os IVA company in February 2022; a 
copy of the closure report from Mrs O in August 2022; and then they received a closure 
report from Mrs Os IVA company in December 2022. They explained there was a delay in 
Mrs Os IVA company confirming the closure with them, but didnt explain why.
As Mrs O disagreed with the investigators finding, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. Among other things, Mrs O believed Oodle didnt comply with the CRA and her IVA 
in how often they contacted her and with what they said in their correspondence to her. She 
believed Oodle didnt receive the payment expected from her IVA company as they had 
recently removed the third-party company acting on their behalf  and so didnt update their 
banking details.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 July 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Os complaint. In that decision I said:
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did Oodle treat Mrs O unfairly by 
contacting her when they did.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts.
For me to be able to resolve this complaint fairly and reasonably, I need to reach a finding on 
two points:
Did Oodle wrongfully contact Mrs O when they shouldnt have?
If so, what impact did this have on Mrs O?
For an IVA to become legally binding on all parties, the agreement must be sanctioned and 
registered by the Court. And all parties to it are bound by its terms and conditions. Part of its 
terms are that creditors shouldnt contact the debtor directly about the IVA or the debts within 
it. So, generally, a creditor should contact the IVA company directly, rather than the debtor. 
This also applies to debt collectors who may be acting on the creditors behalf.
I have seen a copy of the certificate of completion of the IVA. Its letter header is dated 26 
January 2022. Oodle has told our service they were informed in December 2022 that the IVA 
had completed  around 11 months after Mrs O had completed her IVA. I contacted Oodle 
for their comments to understand why they only received confirmation in December 2022. 
Oodle say they received a final report from Mrs Os IVA company in February 2022; a copy 
of the closure report from Mrs O in August 2022; and then they received a closure report 
from Mrs Os IVA company in December 2022. They explained there was a delay in Mrs Os 
IVA company confirming the closure with them, but didnt explain why.
In this instance, Oodle say they only contacted Mrs O in March 2022 and say they only did 
so as a letter automatically generated to be sent. However Mrs O has provided us copies of 
correspondence she received  both in March 2022 and also in August 2022. So Im more 
persuaded by what Mrs O has provided our service when considering when Oodle had 
contacted her in writing. Even if I was to set aside the fact that the IVA had already 
completed on both of these occasions, it was before Oodle believed Mrs O to have 
completed it.
So, Im satisfied here that Oodle wrongfully contacted Mrs O in writing when they shouldnt 
have as they should have contacted Mrs Os IVA company instead.
Ive gone on to consider the impact this might have had on Mrs O.
Oodle say they contacted Mrs O as they hadnt received the funds they were expecting from 
her IVA company and that their communication to her was generic, which explained the 
outstanding arrears on her account. Mrs O has suggested that Oodle hadnt received the 
funds due to them not updating her IVA company of their bank account details. While I dont 
think I need to make a finding on this matter to reach a fair outcome, it might help Mrs O to 
know that following our services enquiries, Oodle said the bank details were correct and 
were the same at the time the IVA was set up.
Mrs O said the communication she received from Oodle was intimidating, oppressive and 
heavy handed. 
Oodle has confirmed no calls were made to Mrs O from itself or from a third-party company 
acting on its behalf after January 2022. And Mrs O hasnt been able to provide evidence of call logs she received from Oodle. I cant be certain of whether calls were made to Mrs O by 
Oodle, without having sight of call logs. Oodle has said they didnt make any calls. But 
overall, I dont think theres strong enough evidence to show that calls were made when they 
shouldnt have been.
While I accept written communication may have been sent to Mrs O when it shouldnt have, I 
dont think from what I have seen, the communication to be intimidating, oppressive or heavy 
handed in nature. I say this because general information was provided about arrears which 
Oodle believed to be outstanding on the account. And they say this was sent as they didnt 
receive funds from the IVA company when they expected to. The tone of the letters sent 
were not intimidating, but rather it was intended for these letters to be factual and 
informative.
Considering things here, while I dont think the communication received to be intimidating, I 
do accept it would have still been distressing to Mrs O to have received these letters, given 
that her IVA had completed. And while I cant be certain as to why there was a delay in 
Oodle being credited or for being notified of Mrs Os IVA completion, I think Oodle shouldnt 
have contacted her when they did. So, to put matters right, I think Oodle should pay Mrs O 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused her.
I set out that I intended to uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the opportunity to 
send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded before the deadline I set.
Mrs O responded and provided copies of emails she received from a third-party acting on 
Oodles behalf and from a third-party Oodle sold the debt on to.
Our service responded to Mrs O and invited her to make further comments to what I 
proposed, which I have outlined in the next section below.
Mrs O said that while she is happy that my provisional decision had found in her favour in 
part, she was concerned, among other things, that I hadnt addressed certain aspects of her 
complaint.
Mrs O also believed I dismissed telephone calls being made to her as she couldnt produce 
documentary evidence of those calls.
Oodle responded and said they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O has said she has been contacted by Oodle again since Ive issued my provisional 
decision, which is disappointing to see. I have seen the correspondence sent to Mrs O, and I 
dont think it is intimidating or oppressive in nature. But I do think I need to reconsider the 
award I set out in my provisional decision.I say this because Oodle sent us an email they received from a third-party they had sold the 
debt on to. The email said they had not been in contact with Mrs O. I dont think this is 
correct, considering Mrs O has provided our service a recent email she received from them.
I have contacted Oodle and asked them to stop contacting Mrs O in relation to this matter as 
they are aware the IVA is now complete. If Mrs O continues to receive contact from Oodle or 
a third-party acting on its behalf about this debt, then Mrs O retains the right to raise a further 
complaint where a further distress and inconvenience award may be awarded.
Considering events that have transpired since I issued my provisional decision, I think Oodle 
needs to do more to put things right and I think a £250 payment is fair for what has 
happened up until the date of this decision.
Mrs O has said I didnt address certain aspects of her complaint. As I set out in my 
provisional decision, if theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mrs O also believes I dismissed her comments about receiving calls from Oodle due to the 
lack of documentary evidence of said calls. I appreciate Mrs Os comments that it implies 
she hasnt been honest and falsely claimed to have been contacted by Oodle. It certainly 
wasnt my intention to do so in making my findings and I also want to be clear that I havent 
dismissed any comments made. But as Ive already said, I dont think theres strong enough 
evidence to show that calls were made when they shouldnt have been.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I instruct Oodle Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mrs O £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman