DRN-2393283
The complaint
Mr H says St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc failed to provide him with effective 
advice, arrangements and service in relation to his personal pension and individual savings 
account (ISA), causing him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr Hs relationship with St. Jamess began in November 2017 when he sought advice about 
retirement planning, specifically with regard to the pensions he held with Standard Life. He 
wanted to ensure he had sufficient funding for his retirement. And that he would be able to 
call on ongoing, holistic and bespoke financial advice from a dedicated adviser.
St. Jamess conducted a fact-find into Mr Hs circumstances. There seem to be a few 
discrepancies between the retirement planning report St Jamess issued on 24 January 2018 
and what Mr H has told us about his circumstances. Despite this the broad picture appears 
to be agreed between the parties.
Mr H was 60 years old at the time of the advice and married with no financial dependents. 
He owned his main residence which was valued at around £600,000. There was no 
outstanding mortgage. Mr H was recorded as being in good health, with no issues with 
regards to life expectancy which could affect his investment decisions.
Mr H told us he wasnt self-employed at the time. Rather, he was considering becoming a 
freelance IT consultant, but these plans didnt come to fruition. He did have income of 
£8,000 per year from a Buy-to-Let (BTL) property, which was valued at around £170,000.
St. Jamess recorded Mr H had £85,000 in a share portfolio  but he says he doesnt 
recognise where this figure came from. It seems he did have £79,000 in cash for use in 
emergencies. This was drawn on for a Unit Trust Feeder account to move money into the 
ISA St Jamess had advised him to establish. Mr H also had two Standard Life personal 
pensions, which together had a transfer value of about £789,000.
St. Jamess assessed Mr Hs investment risk outlook. This included factors such as his 
objectives, his investment experience, the time horizon over which he was investing and his 
attitude to, and ability to withstand, investment loss. For example, with a significant 
emergency fund held in accessible cash accounts (excluding his home) - this demonstrated 
a moderate capacity for loss.
Taking all these matters into account, St. Jamess assessed Mr H as an investor with a 
medium risk appetite. It defined this in the following terms:
You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. 
You want the potential to achieve better long-term returns and are comfortable with most of 
your capital being invested in equities and property, some of it overseas. You realise there 
may be significant falls in the value of your investments.
St. Jamess assessment of Mr Hs risk appetite was reasonable given his circumstances. 
And he seems to have agreed with it at the time.
St. Jamess retirement planning report set out its recommendations. This included switching 
his personal pension plans into its Retirement Account. This would mean he would be able 
to access its services and ongoing advice. It also went on to recommend a portfolio of 
investments consistent with his risk appetite. Mr H acknowledges he discussed the range of 
portfolios and funds that would be available to him during the advice process.
Mr H agreed to the switch of his Standard Life pension funds into the St. Jamess Retirement 
Account. And agreement was reached on the funds he would be invested in.
Unfortunately, the relationship between Mr H and his partner broke down around a year 
later. The main issue being St. Jamess management of his investments, for both his 
Retirement Account and ISA. Mr H and his adviser parted ways and on 9 February 2019 and 
his new partner at St Jamess raised a complaint on his behalf, which was supplemented by 
his own submission a week later.
In making his complaint to St. Jamess Mr H summarised his case in the following terms:
So, the core of my complaint is that despite my saying that I wanted to sell [moving my 
funds into cash], [my former partners] inaction caused me to lose 38k and then, by putting 
me into Fixed Interest funds which were dropping, lost me another 25k totally 
unnecessarily. The total lost then amounted to 63k. This was also mirrored in my wifes 
and my own ISA accounts. [My partner] then failed to re-invest early enough after xmas and 
then only in very small amounts, thus losing most of the rebound opportunity in his quest to 
re-invest in a stable market
I am therefore asking for the return of 63k, plus the equivalent from the ISA funds. This 
will return my monies which had been lost unnecessarily. Any monies I have recovered since 
re-investing in the market should not be considered in the equation since this was accrued 
by re-investing some of my cash after the event.
Mr H says he was trying to be conciliatory in his demand for compensation since the 
recovery of the US market was still underway and the scale of his losses unknown.
St. Jamess responded to Mr H in April 2019. It accepted that thered been delays in its 
partner responding to his questions about whether or not to switch funds. It proposed a 
goodwill offer of around £39,000 (gross) in relation to his Retirement Account and £1,350 on 
his ISA. The method it used was to assume Mr H had remained in his original portfolio of 
funds prior to the September 2018 switch, until 2 March 2019 when the first 
recommendations of his new partner were given effect.
Mr H was disappointed with St. Jamess offer and revised his own expectation of how things 
should be put right. For example, he wanted the failure to move his near cash funds into the 
US markets brought into the equation. When he didnt get satisfaction, he brought his case 
to this Service and said he thought the compensation should be in excess of £160,000.
The investigator upheld Mr Hs case. And while St. Jamess did increase its offer to around 
£60,000 (gross) to put things right in relation to his Retirement Account, the investigator 
ultimately recommended it should follow Mr Hs proposed methodology for redress. St. 
Jamess disputed the approach and so his complaint has been passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision last month. Mr H disagreed with the redress I proposed and 
provided further arguments for me to review. Ive carefully considered what hes told me and 
have addressed his points where material to my final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
I tend to put more weight on evidence where this is contemporaneous with the events 
complained about. Thats not a strict rule, its just that despite the best intentions of parties to 
a complaint, memories can and do fade. Recollections and impressions today can 
sometimes omit nuance and detail that can be important. That said, Ive carefully considered 
all the testimony provided.
Both parties have provided information and argument about the events complained about. 
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint, but not to the extent he wanted. Ill explain why.
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by St. Jamess for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like St Jamess. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding the 
consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; their 
financial situation; and their investment objectives.COBS 9.2.2R requires firms, among other things, to take account of a customers 
preferences regarding risk taking, their risk profile and to ensure they are able financially to 
bear any related investment risks consistent with their investment objectives.
Although Mr H has raised a number of issues about the services provided by St Jamess and 
this is useful context, Ive focussed on what is at the heart of his complaint - the advice he 
received and arrangements made in relation to the investments in his Retirement Account 
and ISA from around September 2018 until a new partner had been put in place to oversee 
his affairs.
Mr H says St Jamess failed to meet its regulatory obligations, for example in relation to the 
Principles. To make his point he repeated certain elements of his complaint as follows:
There were many unnecessary issues when the account was being set up and the funds 
being transferred from Standard Life. These included misinformation ("transfers would be 
complete by Christmas"); ridiculous errors (the wrong NI number being given to SL); 
investment errors (money being invested when the instruction was to leave it in cash); and 
waiting until the market had stabilised before investing, but waiting so long that the 
opportunity was lost. Im sure not all of these were [my partners] fault, but it was always me 
finding the issues, not him. This was not a good start and reduced my trust in [my partner] 
and [St Jamess] in general such that I had to watch my account more closely than I felt 
should have been necessary.
Mr H says my provisional decision assumed St Jamess acted completely professionally. He 
said that Ive not afforded him the same courtesy. And he thought that my conclusions must 
mean that I thought hed been exaggerating what hed wanted to do or at worst was being 
untruthful. 
Im sorry that Mr H feels the way he does, but I dont think his assertions bear scrutiny. I say 
this because Ive actually agreed with Mr H that there were serious failings in how St 
Jamess performed its responsibilities. And that is why hes going to receive substantial 
compensation. As well as his financial loss my decision also recognises the frustration, 
trouble and upset hes been caused.
I have to sit in the middle of disputes and arrive at findings based on the available evidence 
in an impartial manner. Its true to say Ive taken a different view to him of the extent of St 
Jamess failings. When both sides argue polar opposite positions, I have to make a 
judgement about whats more likely than not to have been the case. And as Ive explained I 
tend to put more weight on evidence contemporaneous with the events.
What I also have to do is to consider the impact of St Jamess failings on Mr H and ask 
myself questions such as, what wouldve happened had it got things right? In doing so I have 
to take account of the possibilities available at the time and the most likely courses of action.
In broad terms, theres no dispute between the parties that things didnt go as they 
shouldve, and that Mr H suffered financial detriment as a result. The problem is that both 
parties have used their own methodology for redress, and the position of both has evolved 
since the complaint was first raised.
Theres a substantial and unbridgeable difference in the compensation each party considers 
appropriate. So, my main role in this case is to consider what would be fair and reasonable 
redress for Mr H to receive from St. Jamess.
Differences in the redress assumptions made by both partiesUnravelling the impact of the things St. Jamess got wrong isnt simple. I think both parties 
recognise there are different ways redress could be calculated. Theres no perfect proposal 
here. Ill be drawing on the approach this Service usually takes in similar cases.
In deriving what I think is a fair proposal for redress, I started by trying to understand the 
assumptions made by each side in their last proposals. This helped identify what was driving 
the significant difference between them.
In broad terms St. Jamess set of assumptions for the redress it proposed Mr H should 
receive included the following main elements:
- A switch of all Mr Hs funds (Retirement Account and ISA) shouldve been made into 
its Money Market Fund on 18 September 2018.
- From January 2019, in three tranches, these monies shouldve been invested into its 
North American Fund. As instructed, the total exposure shouldve been 45% of the 
value of his holdings.
- The end date for calculations should be 2 March 2019, when the first investment 
recommendations of Mr Hs new partner had been agreed and executed.
In broad terms Mr Hs set of assumptions for the redress due included the following main 
elements:
- A switch of all funds shouldve been made into pure cash on 18 September 2018.
- From 27 December 2018, 100% of his monies shouldve been invested in US funds. 
Using as a proxy for performance the Dow Jones Index (DJI).
- The end date for calculations should be 11 July 2019, when the recommendations of 
Mr Hs new partner had been agreed and executed after extensive analysis of his 
situation and retirement objectives.
Both parties have focussed on the situation of the Retirement Account - naturally given the 
scale of funds at stake. But it seems to me the position with Mr Hs ISA fund and the 
approach to be taken on redress there should broadly mirror this. I can see St. Jamess 
adopted this approach in its response to Mr H. And I can see no strong reason to depart 
from this.
What would be a fair and reasonable approach to calculating redress?
The first matter Ill address is the exchanges between parties between 7 September and 12 
October 2018 where Mr H raised concerns about volatility in the market and where he 
sought advice about de-risking his portfolio in advance of what he thought could be a 
collapse in the market.
At first Mr H enquired about whether it would be a good idea to crystallise his funds. On 10 
September 2018 his partner said (bolding is my emphasis):
You dont need to crystallise your pension to lock in the value. We can simply put you in to a 
cash fund until this current bout of volatility passes.
Mr H sought to clarify the advice, but he didnt receive a response. A meeting was arranged 
for 18 September 2018 and he says he told St Jamess the following about his 
circumstances (bolding is my emphasis):
I said that my wife had intended to retire when she was 60 (March 2020) but had now 
decided to retire very soon (early 2019) and therefore this had changed my approach to my 
pension fund. I said that in my view the markets had peaked and that they were starting to drop and that I thought it would be best to sell since I felt the markets would continue 
to drop at a time when I would start being dependent on the money. [My partner] said 
that he wasnt sure that I should sell but would come back to me in a couple of days after 
having spoken to colleagues. I agreed to wait.
Unfortunately, his partner didnt follow-up the meeting effectively or respond to further 
messages from Mr H. St. Jamess finally got back to him on 11 October 2018. His partner 
explained hed been away on holiday and then on return had fallen ill. He apologised and 
said he would get to work on his behalf the same day.
By 12 October 2018 St. Jamess had sold Mr Hs holdings and placed his money in fixed 
interest funds. He says this wasnt explained to him, but he assumed it was essentially cash. 
Actually, from the transaction listings on his accounts I can see he was moved into the 
Investment Grade Corporate Fund  a lower medium risk fund.
As an aside, at this time Mr Hs adviser made an offer to him to find another partner at St. 
Jamess if he wasnt happy with how he was running his fund. Mr H responded by saying he 
still wanted him to run his portfolio.
St. Jamess has acknowledged there were delays in responding to Mr Hs request for advice. 
I think using 18 September 2018 in redress calculations as the date from which his funds 
shouldve been moved is fair.
Mr H wanted to be in cash and his partner was at best ambiguous when he indicated a cash 
fund as a haven. As St. Jamess has confirmed, it didnt have what most lay people would 
consider a cash fund.
St. Jamess shouldve explained the options better to Mr H as well as the risks that were still 
associated with these. This wouldve mitigated his surprise some weeks later when he found 
out where his money had been placed and that hed made a loss (albeit, St. Jamess says, 
somewhat less than wouldve been the case had he stuck with his previous portfolio).
Mr H assumed in his redress methodology he shouldve been in cash at this time. He says 
he was never told that he couldnt hold funds in pure cash, and he noted that in the small 
print of his Retirement Account terms and conditions, a fund was defined as follows:
a collection of assets (such as stocks and shares, fixed income securities, corporate 
bonds, property, collective investment vehicles and cash).
Mr H says that given stocks, shares and fixed income securities could all be held on their 
own, it was only fair to conclude that cash could be.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said. I understand the arguments he makes. I 
dont think his St Jamess partner communicated with him effectively in September 2018. 
Further, he doesnt then appear to have executed a transfer of Mr Hs money into the most 
appropriate of its available funds. So, it will need to put things right.
But I remain of the view that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require St. Jamess to work 
on the basis that Mr Hs money was placed in a pure cash holding at this time. Thats 
because its confirmed on a number of occasions that this was never an option open to him.
The funds available to Mr H were discussed in some detail when he moved across to St. 
Jamess. And I think the investment guide it says it shared with him several times was also 
reasonably clear in this regard. Further, in responding to my provisional decision, Mr H said 
hed told St Jamess that hed been selecting his own funds for his Standard Life pensions for some years and that he expected it to do better than he could. I think this demonstrates 
he wasnt a novice in these matters.
As we know, Mr Hs funds were placed in the Investment Grade Corporate Fund. Ive 
concluded that St Jamess redress with regards to this aspect of Mr Hs complaint needs to 
recognise that his money shouldve been placed in the most appropriate fund. The Money 
Market Fund is described in its literature in the following way:
The fund aims to preserve capital, maintain liquidity for investors seeking access to their 
investments and provide an income in excess of the Bank of Englands base rate.
I think its more likely than not had Mr Hs partner described the Money Market Fund to him, 
given the other options available hed have agreed to move his funds here. So, the redress 
St Jamess now proposes in regard to this particular aspect of his complaint is broadly fair. 
Although, as it has two Money Market Funds, Im requiring it to use the one which most 
closely replicated the performance of pure cash.
The next element of the approach on redress to consider relates to moving Mr Hs funds out 
of his Investment Grade Corporate Fund and into US markets. On the face of the available 
evidence, theres another communication issue here. I cant see Mr Hs partner talked him 
through the available fund options and the associated risks.
While I understand how Mr H has come to use the performance of the DJI in his calculations 
 which as he notes is more favourable to St Jamess than the Standard and Poors index - I 
remain of the view this would not be appropriate. Thats because he wouldve only had 
access to set funds with St Jamess. In this instance the North American Fund. So thats the 
reasonable comparator for any compensation calculations.
Mr H has assumed that 100% of his funds shouldve been invested in US markets by 27 
December 2018. Not the 45% of his funds transferred into the North American Fund in three 
tranches during January 2019, which is the basis for St. Jamess latest calculations. I 
disagree with his proposal here for a number of reasons.
Ive reviewed the available email trails between the parties from November 2018 through to 
January 2019.
On 5 November 2018 Mr H asked his partner about what the investment strategy should be 
now that the markets were springing back. His partner responded the same day saying he 
was maintaining a watching brief, but that market volatility hadnt yet reduced to a level at 
which he was comfortable going back into equities. Mr H later reflected this was the right 
advice at the time. Indeed, US markets continued to fall.
On 27 December 2018 Mr H sent an email to his adviser saying (bolding is my emphasis):
HiI called the top of the market correctly and you correctly stopped me from going back in 
too early. What now, though? How do you see the US market going? I know you dont 
have a crystal ball, but do you think it reached its bottom just before Christmas and will 
continue to rise after its Santa Claus rally or do you think it will drop again immediately 
after the New Year?
Obviously I dont want to lose the gains in the US market returning close to its previous 
highs, so it might be better to reinvest when we know the market is down considerably, 
rather than wait in the hope that it might drop a few more points, risking the gains on the 
upturn. A bird in the hand is worth two in the bushIf you think it is on its way up again, 
do you think it would be a good idea to invest all my monies in the US market, perhaps with a tracker, so it is dragged up without the complication of the UK market 
and then rethink it in a few months?... 
The same day his partner at St. Jamess responded in the following terms (bolding is my 
emphasis):
Hi Obviously trading yesterday was strong, but it shouldnt be forgotten that it followed 
close on the heels of the worst US trading day in about 6 years. One day is too small a 
sample size in my view. Looking at how the markets are faring today, its not looking 
particularly good in the UK and Europe. Dow & S&P futures are trading at nearly 2% down, 
so I dont think its going to be a very good day for the US markets either.
We should keep a close watch on it, and when we start to see volatility reducing, then we 
will go back in. As always though, you are more than welcome to overrule.
I think these exchanges are instructive. Mr H acknowledges recent good advice which 
seems to have been against his own inclination at the time. And he goes on to pose a series 
of questions. So, while he certainly has a firm idea about getting into the US markets, I think 
he was still seeking advice about what would be best.
Thats not surprising. On many occasions Mr H has told us he was an amateur in investment 
matters. He was paying for ongoing advice and up until this point hed followed that advice. 
Ive no reason to believe St. Jamess provided him with anything other than what it believed 
to be best advice at the time.
I note Mr Hs partner made it clear to him that if he felt strongly about the suggested 
opportunity, he could instruct on the matter. He noted in his response to my provisional 
decision that this, and indeed the possibility of swapping partners, was a repeated refrain 
from St Jamess that became almost meaningless. It might alternatively be argued that he 
was presented with these possibilities, which he hadnt until that point taken up.
On 7 January 2019 Mr H contacted his partner again. He says he had no confidence St 
Jamess wouldve been proactive, so he had to be. He set out his own analysis of what was 
happening in the US markets and again asked for St Jamess advice.
Mr H was keen not to wait too long for reduced market volatility if it meant he lost the 
opportunity to benefit from the upswing in sentiment. But he also made clear he didnt want 
to make a mistake by reinvesting just for the sake of it. He also asked whether he should 
now be moving everything not in US markets into cash.
The next day his partner responded and indicated his view that the US market had settled 
down a little. Despite some ongoing political and trade uncertainty, he thought the time had 
come where it would be ok for Mr Hs portfolio to take on some exposure to US markets and 
he advised moving 10-15% of his pot into St. Jamess North American Fund.
Mr Hs partner also agreed that given the performance of his Investment Grade Corporate 
Fund that moving the balance into cash would be sensible - as we know from my previous 
findings, he meant the Money Market Fund. He actioned the switches.
On 9 January 2019 theres another exchange between the parties and another movement of 
20% of his funds to US markets the following day.
On the 11 January there was further communication between Mr H and his partner in which 
he said he thought it was time to increase his US markets holding again and asked for a 
suggestion about the scale of this switch. St. Jamess suggested another 10%. It was also at 
this point the relationship with his partner broke down.From 9 January 2019 Mr H began asserting what he wanted to happen with his portfolio 
more strongly, although he still sought guidance from his adviser about the extent of his 
exposure to the US markets.
Mr H is adamant the reason not more than 45% of his funds were moved into the US market 
was because his relationship with his partner broke down. He says he was increasing his US 
investments on a near daily basis until the breakdown and so, he thinks its a reasonable 
contention that he wouldve continued to do so.
Mr H says the reason for the breakdown was due to his frustration with his partners 
slowness and lack of proactivity, which he says finally boiled over in an email. He says that 
message didnt reflect any intention to stop increasing the amount he was investing in US 
markets. And he thinks theres no discernible basis for me to assume this was the case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said, but I remain unpersuaded by his proposed 
redress methodology which assumes he shouldve had 100% of his funds in US markets by 
27 December 2018, or even by January 2019.
I think had Mr H wanted to move all his funds into the US markets its more likely than not he 
wouldve instructed on that basis. Hes a confident person with firm ideas. But the audit trail 
doesnt show he made such an instruction. Instead it shows he was still seeking advice 
throughout the period in question.
I also asked Mr H to reflect on the risk assessment conducted with St. Jamess at the outset 
of the relationship with his partner. That found he had a medium risk appetite. The North 
American Fund had an upper-medium rating. Across a portfolio, its not unreasonable to give 
clients exposure to funds beyond their appetite, where this is understood, limited and offset 
by lower risk interests. It should also be part of a clear strategy.
In responding to my provisional decision, Mr H set out how he perceived the US market as 
only presenting a medium risk. And that St Jamess hadnt advised him that to place all his 
money in those funds wouldve exceeded his risk appetite.
Although its clear from his own testimony Mr H wasnt a novice in investment matters, hes 
also asserted throughout that he was an amateur relying on the advice of his adviser. So, 
although he mayve perceived what he says he wanted to do as medium risk, I dont think 
most competent financial advisers wouldve agreed.
And its unlikely St Jamess would ever have recommended Mr H moved 100% of his money 
into the North American Fund. If it had it wouldve meant his whole pot was invested in a 
vehicle that was specifically above his assessed risk appetite at the time. And all his money 
wouldve been heavily concentrated.
Further, had things gone awry, then St. Jamess wouldve been open to the charge it had 
wilfully disregarded Mr Hs assessed appetite for risk, it had failed to act in his best interests 
and had breached its regulatory obligations. And he would then have had a case for 
compensation.
Ive no record of Mr Hs first partner having conversations with him to help him understand 
these matters. Nor helping him to appreciate that in order to meet his pension objectives, to 
provide a secure income in retirement, it wasnt appropriate to chase every upturn and 
mitigate every downturn in the market. He was investing for the medium term and an income 
in retirement.I note the following communication from Mr H to his new partner at St. Jamess in May 2019 
seems to speak to some of the deficiencies in the service provided by his former partner and 
how a different approach and better communications mightve led to a different outcome:
The modellinghas clarified in my mind a little of what went wrong with [my first adviser] 
over and above what weve discussed. I think part of it is that beyond my own amateur 
modelling, he provided nothing to give confidence that my funds would outlast [my wife and 
me] and particularly nothing about solvency later in life after the impact of significant 
downturns. I raised my concern about these downturn events on a number of occasions. 
This sowed the seed for me to be more concerned about the funds than perhaps I needed to 
be.
The final assumption I need to consider is the appropriate end date for redress to run until. 
Mr H says the investigator told him this should be 11 July 2019, the point at which the 
recommendations of his new partner had been agreed and executed after extensive analysis 
of his situation and retirement objectives. St Jamess has assumed 2 March 2019, when the 
first investment recommendations of Mr Hs new partner had been agreed and executed.
I can understand why Mr H argues that it wasnt until July 2019 that hed settled on a what 
he called a standing portfolio. I can see there were several discussions with his new adviser, 
including the construction of cash flow models which provided him an illustration of how his 
funds might fair through his retirement and gave him some reassurance.
On the other hand, Mr H was introduced to his new adviser at the end of January 2019. And 
I can see that by 2 March 2019 hed agreed to a new portfolio. Although he refers to this as a 
holding position, having reviewed his funds it seems he was invested broadly in line with his 
medium attitude for risk. And by July 2019, when he switched around half of his money into 
new funds, I cant see that his risk exposure altered substantially.
Mr H didnt instruct his new adviser to make specific investments, for example to increase 
his holdings in particular markets. He went along with the recommendations of his new 
adviser. While I recognise what he told me about wanting to ensure his new relationship got 
off on a good footing, on balance if hed had strong views, I think these wouldve been 
evident in paperwork, as they were previously.
So, Ive concluded that Mr Hs loss on funds should have an end date for the initial 
calculation of 2 March 2019 - when his new portfolio was put in place. 
Mr H noted the investigator had suggested 8% simple interest per annum be added to his 
losses. My proposed redress was to assess his losses at the date of calculation (2 March 
2019) and then apply a return as if that sum had performed according to his portfolio from 
that point in time until St Jamess settles. 
I remain of the view this is the more appropriate approach, putting Mr H most closely back 
into the position he wouldve been in had matters progressed as I think they shouldve.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about the advice he received from, and the arrangements 
made by, St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc in relation to his investment portfolio, 
incorporating his Retirement Account and ISA.
Ive identified the assumptions and the rationale for these that I believe it would be fair and 
reasonable for St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to incorporate in its redress 
methodology.Calculate the notional loss Mr H has suffered as a result of the failings identified
In respect of Mr Hs Retirement Account, St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should:
- Obtain the actual value of his funds at 2 March 2019. This was the point at which his 
new partner at the firm made recommendations to him about his holdings, which he 
accepted, and which were then executed on his behalf.
- Establish the notional value of his funds at 2 March 2019 based on the following 
assumptions:
oThe switch of all Mr Hs money into its Money Market Fund had taken place 
on 18 September 2018. As it had two of these funds, it should select the one 
which most closely replicated the performance of a pure cash holding.
oAssume 45% of Mr Hs funds were switched into its North American Fund in 
accordance with the expectations he set out in his email to his first partner of 
18 January 2019. That is, in three tranches  15% on 8 January; 20% on 9 
January and 10% on 11 January.
The like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Hs Retirement Account and the 
actual value of his pension fund on 2 March 2019, will be his basic financial loss that St 
Jamess needs to compensate him for.
In addition, as I think this sum wouldve been invested in his Retirement Account, St Jamess 
should then add a return to it which matches the overall performance of his portfolio between 
3 March 2019 and the date it settles.
If paying compensation into Mr Hs Retirement Account would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance, then it should pay him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it 
should make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been 
payable in retirement. Hes confirmed that his marginal tax rate is 20%.
Mr H raised a concern that if any redress was paid in cash this would impact on his draw 
down planning. This will not be the case because the notional deduction for tax made by St 
Jamess would be at his marginal tax rate. And compensation paid to resolve a pension 
complaint is exempt from income tax.
St Jamess will be aware of our usual approach to making deductions for notional income 
tax, and given he remains with a partner at that firm it will be able to give him assurance that 
he hasnt been disadvantaged. This will include consideration of any tax-free cash 
planning/entitlement.
With regards to Mr Hs ISA fund, the approach to be taken on redress should mirror the 
position Ive set out for his Retirement Account, as appropriate. I say as appropriate 
because, for example, the same tax adjustments required in relation to his pension dont 
apply to his ISA account.
St Jamess should provide details of its calculations to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
Distress and inconvenience
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has already accepted that it got things wrong. It 
should pay Mr H a further £500 in recognition of the trouble and upset this has caused him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint but not providing for the 
level of redress he asked for. So, I require St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman