DRN-3106380
The complaint
Mr J has complained Black Horse Limited granted him a hire purchase agreement without 
carrying out proper affordability checks.  
What happened
In 2017 Mr J took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse for a static caravan. This 
cost £47,000 plus park services and fees. Mr J paid a deposit of £5,000 and took out credit 
for the remainder. The hire purchase agreement he signed was for a 10 year period. Mr J 
would be paying £585.62 a month. Over the full period of the agreement, he would be 
repaying over £70,000 for the £42,000 credit granted.
The information Black Horse used to assess affordability confirmed Mr J had an annual 
salary of £42,250. They also didnt believe Mr J was making mortgage payments so felt the 
lending was affordable. Mr J was buying the caravan with his daughter who was initially 
planning on living in it. In fact for the first couple of years Mr Js daughter was repaying her 
father for his monthly hire purchase payments. She moved out of the caravan in 2019.
Mr J told Black Horse he couldnt afford the agreement. They carried out a current income 
and expenditure assessment but believed the lending continued to be affordable.
At the time, Mr J was still working. His bank statements show he was receiving a monthly 
income of around £2,000 (much lower than Black Horse had been led to believe in 2017). 
His credit record showed he was making mortgage payments of around £650. In discussion 
with Mr J, Black Horse assessed him to have monthly expenses of about £990. However he 
was also committed to paying park fees and service costs which ran to more than £5,000 a 
year.
Mr J didnt think the caravan was affordable. He asked to terminate the agreement. He took 
£15,000 out of his pension with his employer to repay what was owed.
Mr J brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr J could afford the 
agreed borrowing. Although Black Horse confirmed Mr J had stated his annual earnings, all 
the other evidence  including bank statements  showed the figures Black Horse had were 
incorrect. Our investigator thought Black Horse had failed to carry out the proper checks. 
Subsequently the hire purchase agreement had proven to be unaffordable.
She asked Black Horse to refund the money Mr J had paid to settle the agreement along 
with 8% simple interest.
Black Horse didnt agree with this outcome. They pointed out that Mr Js disposable income 
still allowed him to make the hire purchase payments and were concerned they were told 
their affordability checks were insufficient. 
Mr Js complaint was passed to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 October 2021. I came to the same overall conclusion 
as our investigator that the agreement had never been affordable. I also asked Black Horse 
to reimburse the deposit to Mr J.
Both parties agreed with the outcome of the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to provide. I now have all I need to complete a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the outcome I have. Ive reached the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. As I received no comments, what 
follows is the same text as in my earlier decision.
The central part of Mr Js complaint is about unaffordability. These aspects dictate the 
resolution I believe is fair and reasonable.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
Im also aware that our investigator completed a detailed view dated 4 December 2020. I 
wont be repeating all the points made there: only those things that explain the decision Ive 
made.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr J could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr J has been disadvantaged in any way by Black Horses actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Black Horse were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needed to be concerned with whether Mr J could sustainably afford the borrowing 
(considering his specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Black Horse as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Mr J took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. The total amount repayable for 
the agreement, taken out in August 2017, was over £70,000 repayable over ten years. The 
APR was 11.9% and Mr J was paying just over £585 a month. 
This was therefore a long-term and costly commitment. My starting point is that any 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been quite thorough.
Black Horse has provided us with details of the checks carried out prior to lending to Mr J. 
These helped them to understand what Mr Js current credit commitments were and to see 
how he was managing them. Black Horses narrative in response to our investigators view 
explained the tools at their disposal were sufficient to assess the general household 
expenses and position of someone like Mr J. What seems clear to me, however, is they 
didnt review Mr Js individual and specific circumstances. If they had done an effective credit 
check, theyd have been aware that Mr J was making mortgage payments (albeit in excess 
of his required repayment).
The fact this didnt tally with the information the credit broker had supplied to them should 
have, I believe, encouraged them to carry out further checks. These may have included 
reviewing Mr Js bank statements.
Black Horse has told us that they were aware of Mr Js salary of £42,250. The problem here 
is that Mr J was definitely not earning that level of salary and a cursory look at his bank 
statements around this time would have verified this.
Black Horse has said that their creditworthiness checks gave them a reasonable level of 
confidence that the stated salary resulted in monthly living costs of £443. Except this figure 
alone is less than Mr J was paying for his mortgage so I dont believe the model Black Horse 
adopted proved sufficient to provide Black Horse with an informed view of Mr Js financial 
position.
From what Black Horse has said, no further income and expenditure checks nor a review of 
Mr Js bank statements was carried out. 
Overall, I dont think Black Horse completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
thinking about the amount of information and supporting evidence they gathered to assess 
Mr Js creditworthiness. Particularly as Mr J was borrowing a high amount over a long term, 
Id have expected them to have carried out further checks to assess Mr Js affordability.
Did Black Horse make a fair lending decision?So having looked at further information  which Black Horse didnt gather  I have significant 
concerns about their decision the lending was affordable and sustainable. This data has also 
been shared with Black Horse.
Its clear that Mr J was never anticipating repaying this agreement himself so initially was 
less concerned about the lending decision Black Horse made. However within two years of 
taking out a high-value credit agreement, Mr J found he was left to repay the agreement 
without any support from family members. What Id have expected Black Horse to have been 
considering is what ability Mr J had to meet any financial shocks or life changes. I can see 
no evidence they did this.
Mr J also tried to get hold of the original information used by the credit broker to ensure his 
application was accepted by Black Horse. This was no longer available. The credit broker 
told him this information had been shredded. Its clear from what Mr Js told us that he 
believes the credit broker misled Black Horse about his financial situation. He may well be 
correct  its certainly the case that theres no evidence to show Mr Js annual salary has 
ever reached £40,000.
Mr Js bank statements for 2017 show he was in receipt of a weekly salary. These 
statements dont suggest Mr J was in a financially robust position. In some months, his 
outgoings were in excess of his income.
It is not our role to dictate what someone should be spending their money on. But if Mr J was 
financially committed prior to taking out the hire purchase agreement, I have to wonder 
whether this was ever affordable. 
In reviewing Mr Js commitments, I have worked on the basis of a monthly net salary and 
Ive looked at his regular commitments. If you include his monthly hire purchase agreement 
as well as paying over £400 a month for site fees, then Mr J seems to have no disposable 
income left (and in most months will be left overdrawn).
Black Horse say they dont take site fees into consideration. But based on the high level of 
these  and their obligatory nature  it seems remiss of them not to have done so.
Overall, I dont think Black Horse took appropriate consideration of the information they had 
gathered  or could have gathered  about Mr Js financial circumstances. 
Its worth remarking that Ive read Black Horses detailed submission of 18 January 2021. I 
can see theyve alleged Mr J lied to them when confirming a salary which has turned out not 
to be the case. And that theyve suggested weve only seen a few details of Mr Js bank 
statements. I can reassure them I believe our investigations have been thorough. Im also 
not convinced its fair and reasonable for them to hold Mr J liable for issues when they have 
not undertaken sufficient checks.
Given all of the above, I dont think Black Horse made a fair lending decision and they 
shouldnt have approved the hire purchase agreement.
Black Horse needed to ensure Mr J could afford to sustainably repay the borrowing without 
causing him financial difficulty or the need to borrow further. I think they didnt collect 
sufficient information during the application process to realise Mr J was not in a position to 
sustainably repay this agreement. And if they had carried out those additional checks, they 
wouldnt have granted the borrowing.
Putting things rightAs I dont believe Black Horse should have granted a credit agreement to Mr J, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for them now to refund the deposit Mr J paid, as well as the 
payment he made to settle the agreement in March 2020.
Mr J made payments for more than two years but as the caravan was mostly used 
throughout this period, I think its fair these payments reflect the usage.
I specifically asked Mr J about the lump sum payment he took from his pension to make the 
termination payment. He confirmed he paid no tax on this amount  if he had, it may have 
been fair to ask Black Horse to compensate him for this but I dont believe this was the case 
here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Black Horse Limited to:
Refund £5,000 Mr J paid as a deposit for the caravan on 13 August 2017; and
Refund £15,068.60 Mr J paid to terminate the hire purchase agreement on 13 March 
2020.
Black Horse should pay 8% simple interest on all refunds from the dates of original payment 
to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman