DRN-3684012
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid all the death benefits for her 
late mothers pension to her half-brother, without making proper enquiries with her, and at 
one point told her she would receive a share but then told her she wouldnt receive a 
payment after all.
What happened
Mrs Ks mother sadly passed away in August 2020. Mrs Ks half-brother was administering 
her mothers estate. Mrs K was made aware by her half-brother that he would be including 
her details in the death benefits form he sent to Aviva in September 2020.
After receiving the claim form from Mrs Ks half-brother, Aviva decided to pay all the death 
benefits to him - a total of £121,495.54.
As Mrs K hadnt heard anything from Aviva, she called for an update. She was told the 
benefits had all been paid to her half-brother on the basis of an Expression of Wish form 
her mother had signed in 2008. 
Mrs K complained about this and instructed solicitors to write to Aviva. Her solicitors said 
Aviva had failed to contact Mrs K even though it had been told about her, and paid the funds 
on the basis of a nomination form dating back to 2008, which was 12 years earlier, and 
Mrs Ks circumstances were now very different; when the nomination form was completed, 
Mrs K was in a financially secure, long-term marriage. But since then, she had divorced and 
remarried, was now the sole earner and had two dependent children. 
Mrs Ks solicitors asked for an explanation as to why her current circumstances had not 
been considered and asked what Aviva would do to put things right.
The solicitors sent Aviva an email in December 2020 as they hadnt heard anything. Aviva 
replied on 17 December saying it was reviewing the information and would get back to them. 
Aviva apologised for the time it was taking.
Aviva issued a response to Mrs Ks complaint on 11 January 2021, apologising for not 
contacting Mrs K or investigating whether she should have been a beneficiary. Aviva said its 
bereavement team was reviewing the information she had supplied and would be in touch in 
due course with the outcome. And Aviva sent Mrs K a cheque of £400 as an apology for the 
trouble and upset caused, and offered to consider any additional unnecessary costs she 
may have incurred.
On 18 January 2021, Aviva sent Mrs Ks solicitors an email saying it had reviewed the 
decision into the claim on the pension benefits and had agreed to pay a lump sum to Mrs K.
Mrs K called Aviva the next day. She was told a payment of £60,656.80 would be made to 
her, and that she should receive an email in the next couple of days. She called again on 26 
January 2021 as she hadnt received anything and was told Aviva would be making a 
payment in a few days. The staff member tried to call the bereavement team but wasnt able 
to get through, so they said they would call her back once they had an update.
Aviva emailed Mrs Ks solicitors on 27 January 2021 saying it aimed to process the payment 
as soon as it could, but needed to unwind the existing claim. It didnt have a timeframe for 
that but it would inform them as soon as there was an update.
Mrs K made a further complaint. She had been chasing Aviva for a response but was told it 
wasnt possible to give a timescale. Mrs K also said she felt Aviva had been too quick to pay 
the death benefits in full to her half-brother, and that it wasnt clear what was meant by 
unwinding the claim. 
Aviva issued a response on 8 March 2021. Aviva said it aimed to resolve all claims as soon 
as possible but acknowledged it should have made further investigations with her and was 
sorry shed had to chase for updates. Aviva said unwinding the claim meant it needed to 
reconsider all the details that had been provided. 
Aviva requested evidence of additional costs Mrs K had incurred and apologised that it 
hadnt been able to provide a timescale for the payment to be made.
Aviva confirmed it had completed a review of their original decision and said the outcome 
was that the original decision wouldnt have changed, so it wouldnt make a payment to 
Mrs K. Aviva apologised for the loss of expectation and sent a further payment of £600 for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs K then made a further complaint. She said Aviva should be estopped from going back 
on paying her a lump sum. She also explained that shed made financial commitments on 
the basis she would be receiving a payment -
signing up to a mentorship programme to the value of over $15,000; and 
making adjustments to her working arrangements and lifestyle, including 
surrendering her entitlement to housing benefit and council tax support.
She also said shed incurred legal costs of £600.
Aviva replied on 16 March 2021. It said Mrs K should not have been told that she would be 
receiving 50% of the benefits. Aviva explained that as part of the review, it had looked at all 
the information held including the nomination form completed by her mother in 2008, which 
showed she wanted 100% of the benefits to go to the half-brother.
Aviva agreed to compensate Mrs K for the legal costs she incurred but said it wasnt 
responsible for financial commitments or decisions Mrs K made before receiving any funds. 
It did, however, make a payment of £600 to cover her legal fees.
When Mrs K referred the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said: 
Aviva was entitled to use its discretion to decide who to pay the benefits to;
although it had made mistakes  and should not have told Mrs K she would receive a 
payment  if it had considered the claim properly the outcome would have been the 
same, with the benefits paid to Mrs Ks half-brother;
she didnt think it was fair to expect Aviva to reimburse Mrs K for the financial 
decisions she had made, and she thought the compensation offered was reasonable.
Mrs K remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She has made a 
number of points, including:Aviva should reimburse her for the cost of the mentorship programme, since she 
made that decision based on the assurances she would be receiving a payment of 
£60,656.80;
her solicitor confirmed she had grounds to make an estoppel claim because her 
decision was based on several assurances of payment, but she couldnt afford to 
pursue legal action;
shes not satisfied that Aviva did consider all the circumstances, including her 
mothers state of health and capacity to manage her own affairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was for Aviva to decide who to pay the benefits to, in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions. Its not for me to make that decision, but I can consider how Aviva went about 
making the decision. 
Im satisfied Aviva did consider all the relevant circumstances  including the wishes 
expressed by Mrs Ks mother, as well as both her and her half-brothers circumstances. Our 
investigator asked Aviva why, after reopening the claim, it didnt contact Mrs K to make 
further enquiries of her. Aviva has explained that it factored in that the policy didnt form part 
of the estate and was to be paid at its sole discretion, and considered the evidence supplied 
by Mrs K relating to her financial situation. It also had information from Mrs Ks half-brother.
But although Aviva was entitled to decide who to pay the benefits to, it has accepted errors 
were made in the process. In particular, Aviva told Mrs K she would be receiving half of the 
payments, leading her to think she would be receiving around £60,000, then took some time 
to review the claim before telling her that was not the case. 
Even if Aviva had considered things correctly at the outset the outcome would have been the 
same, with the benefits being paid to Mrs Ks half-brother. So Mrs K would not have received 
anything. But she was led to believe that she would get a payment. And she says she made 
decisions around her finances in reliance on the assurances given to her. In particular, she 
says she didnt renew her housing benefit and signed up for a mentorship. Mrs K hasnt 
provided evidence relating to her housing benefit. She has provided copies of receipts 
showing she paid for the mentorship, though we dont have details of what the programme 
was or what it has led to for her. And shes referred to a legal point from her solicitors that 
Aviva should now be estopped from going back on the promise made to her.
I have considered this carefully. If someone has acted to their detriment, based on an error 
made by a business, it may be fair to compensate them for any loss. But when looking at 
Avivas error and how this affected Mrs K, I need to consider whether she could have 
mitigated any losses. As a general principle, where one party has made a mistake, that 
doesnt mean the other party can simply do nothing and allow the loss or harm to continue, if 
that could be avoided. Its reasonable to expect them to take steps to minimise the loss.
I appreciate Mrs K thought she was going to receive a share of the benefits, but she hadnt 
been paid anything. She expected to hear in a few days, so it would have been reasonable 
to wait before making a large financial commitment. It was her choice to make those 
decisions immediately and I think the reasonable thing to do would have been to wait until 
she had the money before spending it; that way, she could have made commitments without 
any risk. In the circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Aviva to cover all 
the expenses Mrs K may have incurred. Aviva made an error in not looking into the claim properly in the first instance, and a further 
error when it told Mrs K it would pay her 50% of the benefits. I know this was a stressful time 
for Mrs K and she was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience, which would have 
been avoided if the process had been dealt with correctly. But Aviva has paid a total of 
£1,000 for the trouble and upset it caused, and covered the £600 Mrs K spent on legal costs. 
Taking everything into account, I think those payments are a fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman