DRN-3819228
The complaint
Mr H has complained about poor and unsafe repairs carried out to his car when he made a 
claim to The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) under his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr H made a claim under his car insurance policy with NFU. In August 2021 an 
approved repairer carried out repairs to Mr Hs car and it was returned to him. 
In December 2021 Mr H brought his car to a garage for a service. The garage identified that 
the August 2021 repairs hadnt been completed correctly and there had been a risk to safety 
as a result. 
Mr H contacted NFU and told it his car was unsafe to drive. NFUs approved repairer 
couldnt carry out rectification repairs until March 2022. After back and forth between Mr H 
and NFU, NFU agreed to pay an amount to cover the costs for Mr H to have the car repaired 
at a garage of his choice. Rectification repairs were completed in January 2022. 
Mr H complained to NFU. NFU upheld Mr Hs complaint. It apologised for the inadequate 
standard of repair and for the problems and distress and inconvenience caused. NFU paid 
Mr H compensation of £450. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He provided a schedule of 
losses. He said hed incurred financial losses totalling £3,995. For the emotional and 
psychological impact, Mr H asked for compensation of £2,500. So Mr H wanted a total 
compensation award of £6,455. 
Our Investigator thought NFU had done enough to put things right. He explained that this 
service considers what happened rather than what might have happened. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he doesnt agree that NFU responded appropriately to the 
issues he raised. He says the matter was only resolved as a result of his persistence with 
NFU. 
So Mr H wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld - as it was by NFU. It apologised 
and accepted the findings of Mr Hs garage that the claim related repairs werent carried out 
to an acceptable standard and there was a risk to safety. 
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether NFU has done enough to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. Ive carefully considered the representations Mr H has made. Ive also taken into 
account our approach when considering compensation awards for distress and 
inconvenience.
Fortunately the risk of harm in this case didnt become a reality. I dont make this statement 
to detract from or minimise the impact on Mr H when he discovered the repair failing in 
December 2021. As the Investigator explained, this service looks at what happened rather 
than what might have happened when considering what is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Its clear that due to the wait time of NFUs approved repairer, in order for Mr Hs car to be 
repaired sooner, this would need to be done by an alternative garage. This resulted in further 
calls with NFU which Mr H has shown - by his phone records - came to around an hour. 
The Investigator asked Mr H about his circumstances while he was unable to use his car. Mr 
H explained that he was able to use another vehicle. He says he had to make changes to his 
working arrangements and family visits over Christmas. Rather than visiting family, family 
visited him.
Ive looked at Mr Hs schedule of losses. For his financial loss, he has included the running 
costs of his car including tax, insurance and warranty for the two months he was unable to 
use his car. Mr H has added an hourly rate for his time involved in taking his car to and from 
the garage and for repairs, and for his time in calls with NFU. 
I think NFUs approved repairers poor repair was unacceptable. NFU says it has given 
feedback. When things go wrong, we look at what happened, the impact and length of time 
of that impact, and what a business did to put things right. We look at what is fair and 
reasonable as well as the policy terms and conditions. 
We generally dont apply an hourly rate to a customers time - but take into account the 
inconvenience involved for a customer overall. 
Taking everything into account in this case, I think the compensation NFU paid of £450 is 
reasonable and in line with awards we give - examples of which can be found on our 
website. As Mr H had access to another vehicle while his car was undergoing rectification 
repairs, I cannot consider a claim for loss of use. Neither NFU nor Mr H raised the question 
as to whether Mr H required an alternative vehicle during this time. 
I think the compensation award reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H by 
NFUs failings. I understand Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means 
Im not asking NFU to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman