DRN-4381902
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) closed his account.
What happened
Mr S opened his account with Amex on 19 January 2023. It was approved by Amex with a 
limit of £9,000. In his application, Mr S said he earned £27,000 per annum and was living 
with his parents.
On 2 February 2023, Amex carried out a review of Mr S account and suspended it. Amex 
asked to see Mr S bank statements, which he sent in on 2 February 2023.
On 3 February 2023, Amex sent a Notice of Default which said Mr S was in breach of the 
member agreement; and the account would be closed on or after 20 February 2023. The 
account was then closed and the annual fee refunded on a pro rata basis.
Mr S complained. He couldnt understand why the account was suspended and closed and 
hadnt been given any reasons by Amex. As a result, he suffered stress and anxiety, and 
was concerned about any effects on his credit file.
Amex said they reviewed accounts to check the amount of credit from time to time. In Mr S 
case, they asked to see further information about his circumstances. After reviewing this, 
they decided to cancel Mr S account. Amex said their terms and conditions enabled them to 
do that; to not give notice; and they didnt have to give a reason for closure.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Amex should pay compensation of 
£100 in view of the stress and inconvenience suffered by Mr S. She noted Mr S had missed 
out on an account opening incentive.
Amex didnt agree  they said theyd acted within their terms and conditions and Mr S had 
had the benefit of the Avios points accrued  these had been transferred to his account at 
British Airways. Amex asked that an ombudsman look at Mr S complaint.
I made a provisional decision which said:
I reviewed Amexs terms and conditions and they do give Amex the right to close an account 
if they wish, and they dont have to give a reason when doing so. 
These say: This agreement is open ended and has no fixed duration. You and we can end it 
without giving any reason we may end this agreement immediately if:
 you repeatedly fail to pay minimum payments on time or go over your credit limit
 you seriously or persistently breach this agreement
 you give us false or misleading information; 
we have reasonable grounds to believe you're unable or unwilling to pay your debts 
when due.
So  Amex acted within their terms and conditions. But we asked Amex more questions as 
to why Mr S account was closed so quickly. And they told us that while Mr S passed their 
internal, initial credit checks, they wanted to gather more information about his 
circumstances, and therefore asked him for his bank statements.
I can see that Mr S sent these to Amex  and based on what they saw when they reviewed 
them, Amex made the decision to close his account. Our service cant intervene or overturn 
credit decisions made by firms, as we cant interfere with their commercial judgments. And 
so  that forms the basis of my provisional decision here.
Mr S has said he is concerned about the effect on his credit file, which Ive considered. Firms 
such as Amex must report factual information to credit reference agencies  and so they will 
have reported the account was opened, and then closed. That will be recorded as a matter 
of record. But I havent seen evidence that a default was registered (e.g. for non-payment of 
the debt). And I can see that Mr S paid the account off prior to its closure, so I think it is 
reasonable to assume that nothing adverse has been reported on Mr S credit file.
I can see that Amex refunded Mr S annual membership fee on a pro rata basis and 
transferred his accrued Avios points to his BA account  which was a reasonable thing to do 
and is in line with what we would expect to see.
But  as Amex acted in line with their terms and conditions, I dont agree that they made an 
error, and therefore I do not consider that a payment of compensation is appropriate in this 
case.
I accept that Mr S will be disappointed by this provisional decision, and I invite any 
comments and new information from either himself or Amex  by 2 October 2023.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Amex agreed, but Mr S didnt. He said:
- He hadnt breached Amexs terms and conditions  he had paid the balance within 
the time required; he hadnt given false or misleading information; and had shown 
Amex his income and expenditure  which he said showed he could make the 
payments.
- He has never been in such a position before with other providers.
I now need to consider what Mr S has said.(continued)
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr S complaint again in the light of the points he has made.
In the short time Mr S had the Amex card, I couldnt see he had breached the terms and 
conditions he quotes. But my decision doesnt hinge on that  what is important is that Amex can make a decision 
to close an account if they wish to do so, and they dont have to tell a customer why that is  
I quoted that term in the provisional decision. I quoted: we can end it (the agreement) 
without giving any reason
And here, Amex made a commercial decision to do that, and we cant interfere with a firms 
commercial judgement.
Therefore while I accept that Mr S will be disappointed, my final decision is in line with the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman