DRN-2810637
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide didnt do enough to advise and protect her when she 
made a payment for legal services in 2019.
What happened
Mrs W wanted to arrange legal representation to help support her daughter. She had found a 
law firm that said it could arrange for a barrister to attend court. 
In September 2019, Mrs W sent a payment of £3,600 from her Nationwide account to the 
law firm by Faster Payments transfer.
Unfortunately, Mrs W was extremely dissatisfied with the law firm. She believed it could even 
have been a scam because she hadnt got what shed paid for. 
Mrs W complained to the law firm, and her complaint about their standard of service was 
subsequently found largely in her favour by the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mrs W also complained to Nationwide that it should have done more to advise her about 
alternative payment methods. She said she hadnt realised that sending the money by bank 
transfer might mean she had fewer protections than if shed instead made a credit card 
payment for example. She said shed called Nationwide to get advice before sending the 
payment and had been told that due to system problems they should call back on another 
day, but that all consumer rights were covered when making payments by any method.
Nationwide at first considered if this could have been a scam. It told Mrs W it would attempt 
to retrieve the money shed sent, although it later said no money remained to be recovered. 
Nationwide has since said it considers this was more of a civil dispute than a scam. It said it 
had no record of Mrs W contacting it in advance asking about consumer protections. 
Nationwide said it wasnt required to tell her when she was making a payment that other 
payment methods were available. But it said that when Mrs W had made the payment using 
her online banking, she had been shown a message which did explain this.
Our investigator looked in Mrs Ws complaint. She thought that the evidence didnt suggest 
this had been a scam. The investigator thought this was rather a complaint that a genuine 
firm had failed to deliver the service that Mrs W had paid for. She noted the wording of the 
message Nationwide says it showed Mrs W during the payment process and didnt think 
Nationwide was required to have done any more. She thought its offer of £30 for customer 
service was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that the fact the Legal Ombudsman 
was considering her complaint about the law firm didnt mean she hadnt been scammed. 
Mrs W also didnt remember seeing the payment message Nationwide said was displayed 
and thought in any event it was ambiguously worded and unclear. 
In light of this disagreement, Ive been asked to review everything afresh and reach a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the issues Mrs W has had here, and the problems she 
encountered with the law firm she paid. Im aware her concerns about the law firm have 
already been considered by the Legal Ombudsman service. My findings are limited to the 
involvement here of Nationwide.
 
Mrs Ws is concerned that regardless of the Legal Ombudsmans intervention this still could 
have been a scam. If Mrs W had been deliberately deceived her into sending money by a 
fraudulent payee (so called authorised push payment fraud) then she might be covered by 
additional protections. 
So, Ive carefully considered the available evidence, giving particular weight to the Legal 
Ombudsmans comments on the law firm and its actions. Based on everything Ive seen, I 
find on balance that Mrs W had paid a genuine law firm, one covered by the appropriate 
regulation and consumer protections, but which had failed to delivered the service shed 
expected to receive. I consider this was therefore the type of private civil dispute excluded 
from the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the voluntary code covering authorised 
push payment scams). Taking everything into account, the evidence leads me to find this 
was not an authorised push payment scam. 
Because this wasnt an authorised push payment scam, Mrs W and Nationwide would not 
have had any powers to able to recover funds from the recipients account, unless the 
recipient agreed to return those funds (which it did not). Taking everything into account, I 
cant see that Nationwide should have done more than it did in attempting to recover the 
funds after theyd been sent.
Ive gone on to review what happened leading up to the payment being sent and whether 
Nationwide was required to do more than it did.
Immediately prior to making the payment Nationwide says an automated message was 
displayed that was relevant here. It says this message read: STOP AND THINK Remember, 
youll lose your money if you agree to transfer money upfront for a deposit, item, or service 
and it doesnt work out. Pay with a debit or credit card when you can instead.
I think this would have been sufficient to have alerted Mrs W to alternative payment 
methods. I appreciate Mrs W does not now recall seeing the message, but I have no other 
reason to doubt that Nationwide displayed it as it says it did. On balance I find it most likely 
that the message was displayed.
Mrs W explains shed called Nationwide prior to making the payment and been told that her 
consumer rights were covered when making payments by any method. Nationwide says it 
hasnt been able to find a record of receiving this call from Mrs W. 
The evidence here is therefore contradictory and its impossible for me to be wholly certain 
what exactly was said  this was an undocumented conversation that took place some time 
ago after all. But I consider that even if I was to accept that the call took place exactly as 
Mrs W now recalls and that the discussion was precisely as described, I dont think this 
means Nationwide would be liable to reimburse Mrs W. In reality, she did still have 
consumer protection  in having the right of recourse to the Legal Ombudsman service when she found the law firms services wholly unsatisfactory. And the written message 
displayed while she was ultimately making the payment made it clear that alternative 
payment methods might be more suitable.
I know how much this means to Mrs W, and I am sorry to have to disappoint her. But having 
carefully weighed everything up here, I cant fairly find Nationwide is liable to reimburse 
Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman