DRN-3105276
The complaint
Mr S complains Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited, through a broker, doubled his
premium on his car insurance policy and then cancelled the policy.
References in this decision to Mulsanne include the broker, acting as its agent.
  
What happened
Mr S took out a car insurance policy through a broker. The premium he was quoted for the
policy  which he paid for monthly  was based on him having five years no claims discount
(NCD).
Because Mr S and Mulsanne have different perspectives on what happened after Mr S took
out his policy, Ill set out what each of them says.
What Mr S says
Mr S says his premium was doubled after hed taken out the policy, Mulsanne telling him this
was because he hadnt sent in some documents. Mr S says he didnt know anything about
this, so claimed back the first increased monthly payment that was taken from his bank
account. The policy was then cancelled. Mr S says Mulsanne is now chasing him for an
outstanding balance of £2,002.98  but he doesnt think he should have to pay it because
Mulsanne messed up his payments.
What Mulsanne says
Mulsanne says Mr S was asked for proof of his NCD in the welcome letter it sent with his
policy documents. When it didnt get the proof, the NCD was taken off Mr Ss policy.
This increased his premium by £968.19 (inclusive of the brokers 15% commission and a
£50 administration fee). Mulsanne wrote to Mr S telling him this and that his monthly
payments would increase. Mr Ss finance company also wrote to him to confirm the amount
of the increased payments.
After the first increased payment was taken from his bank account, Mr S made a successful
indemnity claim through his bank. Mulsanne wrote to Mr S asking him to contact it urgently,
because his policy was at risk of cancellation for non-payment. Mr S didnt respond to this or
to two subsequent text messages it sent him. So Mr Ss policy was cancelled.
Shortly before the policy was cancelled, a claim was made on it.
When the policy was cancelled, the finance company paid the balance of Mr Ss premium of
£2,002.98. At and after cancellation, Mulsanne wrote to Mr S telling him about the balance
and asking him to contact it to arrange payment. It says Mr S asked for the debt to be
passed to a debt collection agency, which it did.
Our investigation
When Mr S brought his complaint to us, our investigator asked him to send us his proof of
NCD. Mr S did this in March 2021 and we have since sent this to both Mulsanne and the
broker.
Our investigator then gave his view on Mr Ss complaint, which he upheld. He said it wasnt
fair to increase Mr Ss premiums  he thought Mr Ss policy shouldve been cancelled
instead. But since thered been a subsequent claim on the policy, he didnt think it should be
cancelled retrospectively. His view was that Mr Ss balance should be re-worked, taking into
account his five years NCD.
Having got Mr Ss NCD proof, both Mulsanne and the broker agree Mr Ss balance should
be re-worked to include it, and they have offered to do this. We asked Mr S if he would like
to accept this offer.
Mr S hasnt accepted the offer. He isnt happy it will still leave him with a (reduced) balance
to pay. He says if his premium hadnt changed, he wouldnt have been left with the debt and
wouldve continued making the monthly payments. So Mr S wanted an ombudsman to 
decide his complaint.
In my provisional decision of 13 September 2021, I explained why I thought the settlement 
Mulsanne had now offered Mr S was fair and reasonable. Mulsanne has accepted my 
provisional decision; Mr S hasnt responded to it. So Mr Ss complaint has now come to me 
for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I think the settlement 
Mulsanne has now Mr S offered is fair. That means I uphold Mr Ss complaint for the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision, in which I said:
Ill start by looking at Mr Ss NCD.
By way of background, NCDs were created by insurance companies as a system of
discretionary discounts. By accumulating an NCD, a policyholder is showing they pose a
lower risk to an insurer than those with no, or lower, NCD. So the more years NCD a
policyholder has, the cheaper the insurance quote theyll get relative to those with no, or
lower, NCD.
An insurer needs to be satisfied a policyholder has the level of NCD they say they have
before it will apply these discounts to policies. We think thats fair and reasonable.
In this case, therefore, it was fair and reasonable of Mulsanne to ask Mr S to give it proof of
his five years NCD. But, at the time Mulsanne asked for the proof, Mr S didnt give it. Ive
looked at the steps Mulsanne took after this to tell Mr S what would happen if he continued
to fail to give his proof  these are set out in What Mulsanne says above. In brief,
Mulsanne gave Mr S a number of chances to send in his proof, with clear timeframes for
doing so. And, as time went by, it also explained his premium would increase if he didnt. I
think each of the steps Mulsanne took was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S says he didnt get Mulsannes various letters and text messages. I cant explain why
this is. But, from the information Ive seen, I think Mulsanne sent them  so I dont think it did
anything wrong here. And I think its decision to disapply Mr Ss NCD was fair andreasonable at the time it took that decision.
But, as Ive already said, at our investigators request, Mr S has since sent us proof of his
NCD. This proof is dated 31 March 2021, so I dont think Mr S had it before then. And when
we sent the proof to Mulsanne and its broker, both accepted Mr S had now validated his
NCD. Mulsanne has agreed to pay £798.41 (which was its increase for removing the NCD).
And its broker has said it will deduct the full additional premium of £968.19 (£798.41 from
Mulsanne plus its £50 administration fee and commission of £119.78) from Mr Ss
outstanding balance of £2,002.98, meaning Mr S will owe £1,034.79.
I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome. I know Mr S doesnt agree. He doesnt think he
should have to pay anything because Mulsanne messed with his payments. He says if his
premium hadnt been changed, he wouldnt have been left with the debt and wouldve
continued paying the monthly payments.
But, as Ive said, at the time I think it was fair and reasonable of Mulsanne to increase Mr S
premiums when he didnt give it proof of his NCD. So I dont think Mulsanne messed with
his payments.
And, although Mr S says he didnt know anything about any of this, it was his decision to
claim back the first increased instalment from his bank. Mr S says he tried to get in touch
with the broker. But Ive seen no evidence from him, Mulsanne, the broker or his finance
company that he contacted anyone to find out what had happened before he did this. And it
was Mr Ss decision to claim back the increased payment instalment that started the chain of
events leading to Mulsanne cancelling his policy for non-payment.
As with Mr Ss NCD, Ive looked at the steps Mulsanne took before it cancelled Mr Ss policy
(and as Ive set out in What Mulsanne says above). And, on the facts in this case, I think
Mulsanne treated Mr S fairly and acted in line with his policy terms and conditions in
cancelling his policy for non-payment.
But before Mulsanne cancelled Mr Ss policy, thered been a claim on it. That meant Mr Ss
full annual premium became payable when the policy was cancelled. Its standard industry
practice for the full premium to become payable in these circumstances and theres also a
term in Mr Ss policy document which says the same thing. So I think Mulsanne has acted
fairly and reasonably in asking Mr S to pay his outstanding balance (as its now reduced by
adding back in his NCD).
There are a couple of final points Id like to mention. The first is Mulsanne says this
complaint should be set up against its broker, rather than Mulsanne, because it was the one
communicating with Mr S and trying to validate his NCD. But because the complaint issues
here relate to underwriting decisions  specifically, the validation of NCD and a premium 
increase  I think Mulsanne is the correct business. The broker was acting as Mulsannes
agent in its dealings with Mr S and not on its own account.
The second is the broker has offered to reduce Mr Ss outstanding balance by £169.78,
which represents the fees and commission it charged in respect of Mr Ss premium increase.
If Mr S would like to accept this offer, please can he let us know and our investigator will
liaise with the broker about this.
As Ive said, Mr S hasnt responded to my provisional decision, while Mulsanne has 
accepted it and confirmed that a credit of £798.41 has been added to Mr Ss account. Ive 
seen no reason to change the findings I made in my provisional decision, which are as Ive 
set out above, and so these now form part of this final decision.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited to set-off £798.41 against the outstanding balance Mr S owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman