DRN-3630575
The complaint
Mr E complains that he couldnt use his Chase bank card issued by J.P. Morgan Europe 
Limited (Chase) to purchase a train ticket. 
What happened
On 12 January 2022, Mr E bought a train ticket online using his Chase card. On 13 January 
2022, he went to the station expecting to pick up his physical ticket, using his Chase card. 
But it wouldnt allow him to do that. He asked train staff at the station to print off a ticket.  
Mr E complained. He said this had been inconvenient. He had to find train staff and ask 
them to help him, and to print off the ticket. He said there wasnt any message in the Chase 
app - warning him he wouldnt be able to pick up his ticket - and there should be. He said he 
should get compensation of £50 for the embarrassment and inconvenience experienced.
Chase apologised for what had happened and offered Mr E compensation of £25.
Mr E brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Chase had dealt with Mr Es 
complaint reasonably. He noted that the Chase card was numberless, but the embedded 
information in the card is different. And on Chases website, it said that when buying tickets, 
it was recommended to use e-tickets rather than physical tickets. But if customers wanted to 
have tickets printed, they could use the booking reference. Our investigator said he could 
see how the confusion had arisen; but Mr E had been able to travel and make his journey. 
He agreed with Chases offer of £25. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said the message wasnt available when he bought the tickets, so it 
may have been added later. He also said that the message was wrong  to use the booking 
reference to collect tickets, you needed to also have the same card PAN (primary account 
number). He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chase told us that customers in the UK have separate virtual and physical card details. The 
physical card is numberless, and it holds different card details within it to that which 
customers see, in app and for online purchases. Mr E was unable to collect his ticket at a 
collection machine at the station as the details of the physical card presented at the machine 
were different to the card details he used to buy the ticket online. 
Mr Es complaint comes down to what message was shown when he purchased the ticket on 
12 January 2022. Chase told us the following message is shown in the app: if you're buying 
tickets online, we recommend choosing e-tickets rather than collection if possible. If you do 
choose to collect your tickets and want to print them from a machine, you'll need to use the 
booking reference. You can also collect by showing your in- app card details at a kiosk.
So  this message is clear  it tells customers to use an e-ticket, or if they want to have a 
ticket printed, to use the booking reference number. I wanted to ensure this message was 
live when Mr E made his purchase  and we asked Chase, who confirmed it went live on 1 
January 2022. So  Mr E wouldve seen this message and shouldve been guided by it. 
While Im sure it was inconvenient for Mr E to have to ask for his ticket to be printed by train 
staff, I cant in all fairness hold Chase responsible for that  because of the message they 
showed in the app.
Mr E has gone on to argue that the booking reference cannot be used on its own to obtain 
physical tickets and therefore the message shown by Chase is misleading. We asked Chase 
about this. They said that this can happen for some customers and in some cases. And then 
the booking reference number must be used in conjunction with the last four numbers of the 
PAN (primary account number) used when purchasing the ticket. This is included in the 
Chase app on the purchase transaction. So here, Mr E makes a reasonable point, which Ive 
considered in the context of his complaint.
And in this respect, Chases main message in the app is that they advise customers to use 
e-tickets rather than collection. And as Ive said, this message was shown at the time Mr E 
bought the ticket. So, on balance, I think Chase acted reasonably here.
Mr E did experience some inconvenience; but he was able to travel and make his journey.  
Chase have offered £25 compensation for what happened. I agree with that  Mr E should 
contact Chase directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont think Chase needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman