DRN-2751350
The complaint
 Mr R complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim he made for damage 
to his furniture. 
 
What happened
 In December 2013 Mr R purchased two matching leather sofas from a company that Ill refer 
to here as H. He paid £1335 for both sofas and also purchased a five year care and 
protection plan. This policy of insurance was provided by Amtrust and it covered accidental 
damage to the upholstery Mr R had bought.
Mr Rs sofas werent delivered until March 2014. So, this is when his policy commenced. 
Towards the end of his policy, Mr R contacted Amtrust to make a claim under his policy for 
accidental damage to one of his sofas. It appointed a technician to attend his home to 
inspect the furniture that had sustained damage.  
The technician that attended Mr Rs home said the damage it observed was too severe for a 
leather panel replacement repair. And, as the parts it would require for a full repair werent 
available because H had ceased trading, Amtrust offered to cash settle Mr Rs claim. It 
offered him vouchers for £1335 for another sofa retailer. And it said, if he didnt want 
vouchers, it could alternatively cash settle his claim for just over £1000.
Mr R complained to Amtrust. He wanted it to cash settle his claim in the sum of £1335  the 
original purchase price. But Amtrust declined to increase its offer. And it didnt uphold his 
complaint. So, Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed what had happened and felt the cash settlement Amtrust had 
offered Mr R didnt go far enough. They werent persuaded that Mr R would be able to 
purchase a suitable like for like replacement to his damaged furniture using the voucher 
Amtrust had offered. So, they recommended that Amtrust cash settle Mr Rs claim for £1335. 
Mr R agreed with our investigators view of his complaint but Amtrust didnt. It thought its 
offer was a fair and reasonable and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role is to assess whether I think AmTrust made a mistake, or treated Mr R unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of it is here I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr R and AmTrust, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, the care and protection plan Mr R 
purchased covered his upholstery for accidental damage. In order for a claim to be 
successful a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming for was 
caused accidentally. However, theres no dispute in this case that Mr R has a valid claim for 
furniture damage, which Amtrust is prepared to cover. 
The crux of the disagreement between Mr R and Amtrust is in relation to whether a fair offer 
has been made to resolve this claim. Ive therefore carefully considered the terms of the 
policy Mr R holds.
The policy of insurance that Amtrust underwrites sets out clearly how it will settle claims in 
the event that it isnt able to remove a stain or effect a repair. It states:
If we are unable to remove a stain, or make a repair to, the insured item(s), or if we consider 
it to be uneconomical to do so, we will, at our sole discretion offer you: 
a) A new replacement for the insured item(s) o identical or similar specifications, or 
b) A credit note to be put towards a new replacement for the insured item(s) purchased: or 
c) A cash settlement. 
Ive already outlined the reasons why Mr Rs furniture cannot be repaired or replaced with 
similar items from H. So, the only option here is a credit note or cash settlement, which is 
what Amtrust has offered as a resolution to this claim.
I understand that the original purchase price of the sofas that Mr R purchased from H was 
almost £2000. However, following instore discounts, he paid £1335. And this is why Amtrust 
has offered Mr R vouchers for a different sofa retailed for £1335. 
While only one of the sofas that Mr R purchased from H was damaged, I understand that 
Amtrusts settlement offer is to cover the cost of replacing both sofas given that they were 
bought as a matching set. Mr Rs policy is silent about how Amtrust deals with matching set 
claims where only one item from that set is damaged. So, I think Amtrust has acted fairly in 
offering to pay for the replacement of both sofas.
Mr R complains that he cant purchase a single sofa using the voucher Amtrust offered him 
let alone a matching set of two sofas. I can see that he initially told our investigator that hed 
like Amtrust to reimburse him for the original non-discounted purchase price of both sofas. 
However, I cant ask Amtrust to pay more than the cost Mr R incurred when he purchased 
his sofas from H. This is because his policy is indemnity based, which means that any 
settlement cant exceed the amount he originally paid. This is outlined clearly in the policy 
where it states:
During the period of insurance, the maximum aggregate amount we will pay under the 
terms of this insurance shall not exceed the purchase price of the insured item(s) as shown 
on your sales order. 
In view of the above policy condition Im satisfied it is reasonable and fair for Amtrust to limit 
the value of Mr Rs claim to £1335. It would be contrary to the terms of the policy he 
purchased if I was to direct Amtrust to reimburse him more than that sum.
Ive thought about whether Amtrust acted fairly in offering Mr R just over £1000 to cash settle 
his claim as an alternative to accepting vouchers in the sum of £1335.Having carefully reviewed the terms of Mr Rs policy, Amtrust doesnt clarify how a cash 
settlement sum will be calculated. I can see that our investigator asked Mr R, as part of their 
investigation, whether there were any important features of the damaged upholstery. 
Mr R said his original sofas were three-seater, leather electric recliners. He said he wanted a 
replacement to be like for like and that he needed an electric recliner for health reasons. I 
dont think its unreasonable, in the circumstances, for Mr R to want to replace his damaged 
furniture in the way he wishes.
Like our investigator Ive looked on the website for the sofa retailer that Mr R was offered 
vouchers for. The cheapest electrical reclining leather three seater sofa is just under £1000 
and Mr R needs to replace both of the sofas he purchased from H. This wouldnt be possible 
for the cash settlement sum Amtrust offered here. 
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. It shouldnt put them in a worse position. But I 
think thats what would happen if Amtrust was to pay Mr R the cash settlement sum it 
offered. And I dont think that would be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
 In the overall circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied that the fairest way to resolve 
this complaint is for Amtrust to cash settle Mr Rs claim in the sum of £1335  this being the 
original purchase price of the sofas he purchased from H. This will mean Mr R wont be 
limited in terms of purchasing replacement furniture from the retailer Amtrust offered 
vouchers for. It will allow him to source replacement furniture from a cheaper retailer.
I know that Amtrust will be disappointed with what Ive said. But, for the reasons set out 
above, Im upholding this complaint. I direct Amtrust to pay Mr R £1335 as a cash settlement 
to resolve this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited should pay Mr R 
£1335 as a cash settlement to resolve this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman