DRN-3840792
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC placed a block and then closed his current account 
shortly after he completed an account switch form another bank. Mr D says this left him 
without access to his funds.
What happened
Shortly after Mr D completed a switch of his current account in October 2022, Lloyds Bank 
blocked and later closed the account in early November. Mr D complained and told Lloyds 
Bank this had caused him financial difficulties as it left him without access to his funds. 
Lloyds Bank wrote to Mr D at the end of October to tell him that the Lloyds Banking Group 
had made a decision earlier in the year that it would close any new accounts he opened with 
any other Group member, including Lloyds Bank and it hadnt upheld his complaint.
Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that Lloyds Bank hadnt done 
anything wrong when it closed Mr Ds current account as Lloyds Banking Group had already 
told him earlier the same year that it would immediately close any new current account 
without notice if he opened with another account with any Group member. Mr D requested 
that an Ombudsman decides his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator I think Lloyds Bank were entitled to close his current account when it did. I will 
now explain why.
Im satisfied that Lloyds Banking Group told Mr D in August 2022 that if he opened a new 
account with any Group member it would immediately close the account without notice. Mr D 
was told the reasons for this decision in the August letter, but this is not the subject of the 
complaint against Lloyds Bank, so I wont comment on why the decision was made. Instead, 
I will look at whether it was reasonable for Lloyds Bank to close Mr Ds account when he 
applied to switch it from another bank outside the Group.
Im satisfied that when Mr D applied to switch his account to Lloyds Bank in mid-October of 
the same year, he would reasonably have known the account would be closed without 
notice. So, I dont think it would have come as a shock to Mr D that Lloyds Bank initially 
blocked the account and then closed it. I appreciate that this would have been inconvenient 
and, because Mr D had direct debits and credits on his account, this would have been a 
difficult time for Mr D. Indeed, Ive seen correspondence from Mr D that supports his pension 
payments were affected and that he raised the matter with his MP. However, I dont think 
Lloyds Bank has done anything wrong here as Mr D had been warned by the Group of what 
would happen if he opened a new account. 
When Mr D opened the account with Lloyds Bank, he received the sum of £150.00 as an 
incentive. The account operated between mid-October and 1 November, and Ive seen 
several items were paid in and withdrawn from the account in this time. Lloyds Bank closed 
the account in early November without any notice. The terms and conditions of the account 
explain that Lloyds can do this in certain circumstances, and Im satisfied that in the 
circumstances of this case, Lloyds Bank did nothing wrong when it closed the account 
immediately and without notice. I understand Mr D requested the funds be sent to another 
bank, but because Mr Ds account had been closed I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Lloyds Bank sent him a cheque for the balance of the account. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do anything significantly wrong, and I havent 
upheld Mr Ds complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman