DRN-2342913
The complaint
Mr C and Mr S say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies attached to a mortgage taken out in 1992 and 2001. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C and Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mr Ss case.
When each policy was sold Halifax had to make Mr C and Mr S aware that the PPI was 
optional and gain their consent before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what was 
said at the time each policy was sold so I have looked at the available information.
There is no paperwork available from the first sale in 1992, but this isnt unusual as the sale 
was such a long time ago and businesses arent required to keep this kind of information 
indefinitely. I dont have enough information to find that Halifax didnt make Mr C and Mr S 
aware the PPI was optional, or that they didnt choose to have it.
Paperwork is available from the second sale in 2001. The paperwork presents the policy as 
optional and shows that Mr C and Mr S signed for the PPI separately from agreeing to their 
mortgage. So, I think Halifax made Mr C and Mr S aware that this policy was optional, and 
they chose to have it. 
I think its likely Halifax recommended both of the PPI policies, so it had to check that they 
were right for Mr C and Mr S. Mr C and Mr S have told us that at the time of each sale they 
were both entitled to significant sick pay, redundancy pay and had sufficient savings so they 
had no need for either policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr C and Mr Ss 
sick pay, and for longer than they would have received full pay. It would also have protected 
their savings, and covered circumstances other than redundancy.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr C and Mr Ss circumstances at the time each policy was sold 
the werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and Mr C and Mr 
S seem to have had a need for the cover. So, I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think they chose to take the policies - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund what Mr
C and Mr S paid for it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman