DRN-3497359
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) have handled a claim he made on his home insurance policy for damage 
caused by subsidence.
Mr W is represented in bringing this complaint by Ms L. But for ease Ive referred to all 
comments and actions as being those of Mr W, unless otherwise stated.
What happened
In 2017, Mr W made a claim for damage to his property caused by subsidence. Initially the 
claim was declined, but it was later accepted there was subsidence. 
Since then, Mr W has raised a number of complaints about the progress of the claim. NFU 
has agreed to make a payment for alternative accommodation (AA) to renovate a chalet on 
Mr Ws property, but theres been delays in this being paid. Hes also concerned with the 
proposed method of repair, and whether the property is still moving. He asked for some 
assurance from NFU before any repair works commenced. 
NFU didnt agree the property was still moving but did offer Mr W compensation of £400 for 
an incident with one of its contractors. Unhappy with its response, Mr W brought the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said she couldnt consider any issues about how the claim was handled 
before October 2019, as Mr Ws complaint about this hadnt been brought to our service in 
time. So she looked at issues from this date, until NFUs offer made in February 2022. 
Our investigators view was that:
NFU should make the payment for the AA as a matter of urgency, before repairs can 
start. 
NFU should carry out another survey on the property, given the amount of time that 
has lapsed since the last site visit. 
NFU should carry out the repairs needed to the property, rather than issue a cash 
settlement. 
NFU should increase its offer of compensation from £400 to £600 given the 
avoidable delays it had caused, and the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this 
had caused Mr W.
Mr W responded with numerous points, but in essence, was in agreement with what our 
investigator said. He did ask that someone visit the property to assess the living conditions 
hed been living through over the last few years in order to pay proper compensation for it. 
He also raised some queries as to the AA amount being offered.
NFU responded to say:
It was happy to pay the AA costs, it said Mr Ws representative had delayed the 
payment by raising challenges to it. 
It didnt agree it should carry out another survey. It said whilst time had lapsed since 
the last visit, from the videos and photographs it had seen, the cracks mentioned by 
Mr Ws rep were not evidence the house was subsiding.
It maintained that it wanted to cash settle the claim for repairs to the property. 
It didnt agree with the increased compensation.
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, in which I said:
This is a long running claim with many issues and disagreements between the parties. As an 
informal service, I wont comment on everything that has happened. Instead this decision will 
focus on the key reasons for reaching the outcome I have. But Id like to reassure both 
parties Ive read and considered everything theyve provided.
For clarity Id also like to confirm that this decision covers issues from October 2019 to
February 2022.
Alternative accommodation costs
Ive considered this aspect first, given NFUs comments it is happy to pay the AA payment. It
seems the issue now is the amount owed to Mr W.
NFU has said the total it will pay for the AA is £23,700. It said it isnt willing to pay anymore,
and it has already paid some of the £23,700 to Mr W. It seems NFUs offer letter caused
some confusion, but I havent been provided with any evidence from Mr W which suggests
this offer is too low or should include any other amounts. So to settle this part of the
complaint, NFU needs to pay a total of £23,700 for the AA, less any amount already paid in
relation to this.
Should NFU carry out a further survey before repairs are completed
As far as Im aware, the last visit from NFU was April 2021, when further repairs to the drains
were agreed. NFU said it reviewed cracks at that stage and it was satisfied that as cracks to
the front gable wall (which had been repaired in 2020) hadnt reopened, it was satisfied there
had been no further movement to the gable wall. Its view is that the photographs provided by
Mr W dont show that the property is still moving, and some of the cracks are down to
general wear and tear, and not subsidence.
Mr W has said during the site visit of April 2021, NFU didnt enter the property to review any
new cracks. And that builders who have visited the property have said its still moving, and
the proposed scope of works from NFU wont resolve the issues. Mr Ws provided a letter
from a builder, dated December 2021. In relation to the cracks he said:
I have been back and forth on site for number of months now and have seen one or two of
these cracks increase/worsen and some new hairline cracks appear in new places.
Ive considered this alongside the comments from NFU, and I find NFUs position to be more
persuasive. I accept there has been no site visit for around a year now, but its explanation
around why further cracks may appear seems reasonable to me. And I find it persuasive that
the previously repaired cracks havent reopened. And these can be seen without the need to
enter the property. So on balance, Im not satisfied Mr W has shown the property is still
moving. And so I think differently to our investigator in this aspect. I think another surveyor
visit, before any repairs are undertaken, is unnecessary and would only delay this claim
further.
Proposed method of repair
The main area of subsidence damage appears to be to a gable wall. In early 2020, two
schemes were proposed by NFUs contractor. NFU decided to go with the less costly option
of restraining the gable wall, rather than demolishing and rebuilding it. Mr W has raisedconcerns about this and asked why a second option would be needed if NFU think it can be
repaired without rebuilding it. Mr Ws builder also made some comments on the proposed
repair. He said:
we would need a structural engineer report to state the timber would be structural strong
enough to hold if there was further movement
He recommended taking the gable wall down. NFUs position is that a suitably qualified
expert has already commented on the scheme of work, and there is no evidence to show its
proposed repair wont work.
Having considered all of the comments, Im not persuaded Mr Ws builder has shown NFUs
proposed repair wont work. He just says a structural engineer would need to comment on it.
NFU has said it has had input from a structural engineer. So on balance Im persuaded
NFUs proposed method of repair is suitable, and Im not going to interfere with its decision.
Is it fair for NFU to cash settle the claim?
NFU has said dealing with Mr Ws representative has caused delays and has described
some of her behaviour as challenging, meaning its preferred contractors dont want to attend
the site. Its given this as one of the reasons it wants to cash settle the claim. It also says
there are none-subsidence related repairs which are needed to the property. Mr W has said
hes been suffering from poor health, and given the remote location of the property, has had
his own issues in sourcing contractors to carry out any works, so he wants NFU to carry out
the repairs.
NFUs policy terms do allow it to cash settle claims. But its decision to do so must be fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. NFU has said this claim is complex, and
numerous repairs are needed. It also accepts matters are complicated by the remote
location of the property. There are also two possible ways to resolve the issue with the gable
wall. I think its reasonable for NFU to try the option of securing the gable wall, rather than
demolishing and rebuilding it. But if it cash settles on that basis and the repair isnt
successful, I think this will leave Mr W in a difficult position. All of this leads me to believe the
fair and reasonable outcome is for NFU to arrange for the repairs to be carried out. Its
already drafted a schedule of works which it says doesnt need to be changed, so it is now
required to ensure the work is carried out.
Ive noted NFUs comments on Mr Ws representative, Ms L. It seems accepted by both
parties that a site visit didnt go well, and Ms Ls reluctance to accept the cash settlement for
the AA and for works to start without another survey has likely caused some delays. I hope
this decision helps to draw a line under the disagreement so that both parties can work
together to start the repairs as soon as possible.
compensation
In November 2021, NFU offered Mr W £400 compensation. This was in relation to one of its
contractors, who had confirmed it hadnt dealt with a visit in an acceptable manner. I
understand Mr W has raised other issues about the progress of the claim, and Ms L has
asked for someone to visit the property to fully assess the compensation Mr W should
receive.
Ive reviewed whether NFUs compensation is enough, and I agree with our investigator that
it should be increased. Whilst it has compensated for the incident with the drainage
company, I find there were other delays involving the drainage. The first contractor assigned
to review the drains didnt attend an appointment in February 2021, which couldnt then be
rebooked until around a month later. This left Mr W in a difficult position, as the drains were
overflowing. It also meant other works being organised by Mr W were impacted. I considerthis would have caused Mr W further distress and inconvenience given his health issues
around the time, so I think £600 is a fair amount of compensation to account for this.
Ive taken on board the comments about a visit being needed to assess compensation, but I
dont think thats necessary. I accept Mr Ws property has damage caused by subsidence,
but this isnt what our service awards compensation for. Wed only make an award where an
error from the business has caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And whilst I
accept Mr Ws representative has put a lot of time and effort into this claim, as far as Im
aware she isnt a policyholder, and so I cant award compensation to her even if I felt it was
warranted.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Ws responded with various points and questions; in summary they were:
Mr W hasnt been fully reimbursed for the refurbishment to the chalet, as NFU said it 
was betterment, which he disputes.
NFU hasnt investigated whether the repaired cracks have reopened.
If NFU do carry out the building work, would this include any additional 
issues/problems which arise as they are doing the work.
He had to replace his water tank as it wasnt repaired properly by NFU. Mr W asked if 
I would be considering this as part of my decision.
Mr Ws representative, Ms L also responded with the following:
Whilst she isnt a policyholder, she was acting on behalf of Mr W.
She wanted to know how her behavior had caused problems, as she feels she has 
been polite throughout.
NFU also responded. In summary it said:
Mr W has refused the scope of repairs for a long time, which is why it decided to 
provide a cash settlement.
It cannot place any contractors on site given previous behavior.
It maintained it shouldnt increase the compensation. It said delays with AA were 
down to Mr W changing his mind.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alternative accommodation
Mr W has said the AA settlement amount wasnt broken down by NFU, so he didnt know 
what it was all for. And he says he carried out works to restore electricity and water to the 
building which cost him £3,800, but NFU only reimbursed him £2,500 for that. NFU may not 
have agreed to fully reimburse this amount, but it has offered a total of £23,700 to restore 
the chalet for use as AA. And Im still not persuaded theres any evidence which suggests 
this overall amount is too low. So Im not go to ask it to pay anymore in relation to this. If it 
hasnt done so already, NFU should issue the payment of £23,700, less any amount already 
paid.Should NFU carry out a further survey before repairs are completed
Mr W has said NFU didnt carry out a review of the cracks at the front of the property, as 
when it last attended it was there to look at the drains. NFU has said it did review the cracks 
and was satisfied they hadnt opened. Whether NFU reviewed them or not, I havent been 
provided with any evidence to show that the previously repaired cracks have reopened. So 
my findings on this point remain as set out in my provisional decision. And Im still persuaded 
that NFU doesnt need to carry out a further survey before starting the repairs set out in its 
schedule of works.  
Proposed method of repair
Neither party has provided any further information in relation to this part. So having 
considered matters again, my findings are the same as those reached in my provisional 
decision. Mr W has asked me to confirm whether any additional damage found by NFU 
would be included in repairs, as hed previously been assured. I would expect NFU to carry 
out a lasting and effective repair on any damage that is related to the claim, this would 
include any additional issues (that are linked to the insured event) that it hadnt identified 
previously.
Mr W has said a repair that NFU previously carried out on a drain has now failed as it wasnt 
done properly. He wanted to know whether Id be reviewing that as part of my decision. This 
service can only look at complaints where a business has had an opportunity to respond. As 
far as Im aware, NFU hasnt received a complaint about that, so I havent considered it as 
part of this complaint. 
Is it fair for NFU to cash settle the claim?
NFU has said one of the reasons it wants to cash settle the claim is because of long delays 
caused over the arguments on the schedule of works. However, Ive set out that Im 
persuaded NFU can proceed with its schedule, and no further surveys need to be carried out 
before the work can start. Its also said the behaviour of the parties (and I think its referring 
to Mr Ws representative, Ms L) means its contractors no longer want to attend the site.
I appreciate it may be more challenging for NFU to source contractors to carry out the works. 
But I havent seen any evidence of such poor behaviour from Mr W or Ms L that persuades 
me it would be unreasonable for NFU to continue with the works. 
As set out in my provisional decision, NFUs scope of works allows for a more cost effective 
and less disruptive repair. But if this isnt possible, it will need to carry out more extensive 
works. So I dont think its reasonable to cash settle based on the original scope of works, 
because a failed repair from Mr Ws own contractor could then leave Mr W in a difficult 
position. Having considered everything, I still dont think its fair for NFU to cash settle the 
claim. So based on everything Ive seen so far, Im satisfied it needs to arrange for the 
repairs to be carried out.Compensation
Mr W has said hes never asked for someone to come out to review the compensation. I 
apologise if I was mistaken on that. I said in my provisional decision that even if I was 
minded to award compensation to Mr Ws representative, I couldnt as she isnt a 
policyholder. In response Ms L said whilst she isnt a policyholder, she was acting on behalf 
of Mr W, who has been suffering from poor health. I accept that. But it still wouldnt qualify 
Ms L for any compensation. Ms L has asked that it be confirmed how her behaviour has 
been inappropriate. Im not going to comment on this other than what Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. My role isnt to review Ms Ls behaviour, it is to review whether NFU 
has treated its customer, Mr W, fairly. 
NFU has said no more compensation should be paid as delays with AA were not caused by 
it, but Mr W changing his mind. I accept that NFU isnt responsible for all of the delays on 
this case. But it had offered £400 compensation. I felt the impact on Mr W had been greater 
given his ill health and the overall impact on his property. And having considered matters 
again, I still consider £200 is reasonable compensation. NFUs comments havent changed 
my mind on this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) to:
Issue the AA payment of £23,700, less any amount already paid (if it hasnt done so 
already).
Arrange for the repair works to be carried out.
Pay a total of £600 compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr W for issues between October 2019 and February 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman