DRN-3225088
The complaint
Miss K and Mr T complain about Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) over its handling 
of their home emergency claim. They want Astrenska to increase its offer of compensation. 
What happened
Miss K and Mr T held buildings insurance with a home emergency insurance option. The 
buildings insurance was underwritten by R, and the home emergency cover was 
underwritten by Astrenska. 
Miss K and Mr Ts policy set out that it covered sudden and unexpected failure of a domestic 
central heating system. It excluded any non-gas appliances, Elson tanks, separate gas 
heaters supplying hot water, LPG boilers and dual purpose boilers such as AGAs and 
Rayburns. 
In April 2021, Miss K and Mr Ts unvented cylinder hot water tank overheated and began to 
leak.  Mr T arranged for the water to be isolated and the electrics protected.
Miss K and Mr T then contacted Astrenska on 20 April 2021. Astrenska sent a contractor to 
look at their heater. 
The contracted engineer attended and confirmed that the cylinder needed to be replaced. 
The engineer wrongly advised Mr T and Miss K that their policy covered the cylinder. 
Astrenska subsequently advised that the policy excluded separate water tanks of this type, 
but agreed to honour the advice of the agent, up to the £1000 limit of cover. A new cylinder 
was then ordered. 
Astrenskas contractor returned on 23 April 2021 to fit the replacement. Mr T raised concerns 
with Astrenska about the engineers capability to fit the replacement as he advised that he 
was not qualified to work on that type of cylinder. Mr T was concerned that the engineer 
appeared to have refilled the tank which caused another leak. Mr T was also concerned 
about the engineers fitness for work as he explained that he was currently recovering from a 
serious illness. 
Mr T then engaged his own contractor to complete the fitting of the cylinder. Astrenska 
agreed to cover the costs of this. The work was completed on 27 April 2021. 
Mr T and Miss K complained to Astrenska, they felt that they had been left without heating 
and hot water for too long due to the engineers lack of competence and they felt that they 
had been exposed to risk of harm by an unqualified person trying to fit the cylinder. 
Astrenska offered them £700 to reflect their distress and inconvenience.
Miss K and Mr T were not happy with this as they had been forced to take a lot of time off 
work to attend engineers. They also felt that this was insufficient considering the risk of harm 
and that they and their child were without heat and hot water for nearly a week. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. They considered 
that Astrenska had been responsible for the contractor sending an inappropriately qualified 
person to do the work, but that Astrenska had subsequentlyacted reasonably in response to 
becoming aware of the issues. They therefore considered that Astrenskas offer of £700, in 
addition to having refunded all of the costs of replacing the cylinder, was reasonable. 
Miss K and Mr T did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts in this case are well known to both parties. It is agreed that the cylinder ought not 
to have been covered by the emergency policy, but that once the business agreed to cover 
the cylinder, it accepted responsibility for replacing it safely and in reasonable time. 
Here there is no dispute the that contractor engaged by Astrenska sent an engineer whose 
training on this type of cylinder was not currently valid, and that the engineer did not properly 
fit the cylinder. This caused a delay to the repairs of the cylinder and caused Mr T and Miss 
K inconvenience. 
Astrenska has advised that it has taken steps to ensure that the contractor is not used again, 
and has made appropriate referrals for further investigation of the contractor who engaged 
him. It has acted reasonably in the steps it has taken in relation to the contractor. 
As there is no substantive dispute over the facts of what went wrong, I agree with the 
investigators conclusion that the business got things wrong and the complaint ought to be 
upheld. 
The issue remaining is whether Astrenska has done enough to put matters right for Miss K 
and Mr T, after its mistakes. 
Mr T has said that he does not consider the offer of settlement appropriate to the potential 
harm to his family, or the lost income he and Miss K sustained through waiting home for an 
engineer to attend. He therefore thinks that the compensation should be much higher. 
I wish to address this directly, as it is important that we are clear about the limits on this 
service. We are not here to punish businesses for mistakes, or to make rulings about 
policies and processes. Our role is to look at situations and consider whether the individual 
consumer has been treated fairly by a business. Where the business has not treated the 
consumer fairly, we can direct that compensation be paid, or action be taken, to try to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in without the error(s). 
Whilst I understand that Mr T is concerned about what the consequences of error could have 
been, we are not able to consider what might have happened, if things had played out 
differently. Our role is to try to put Mr T and Miss K back in the position they would have 
been in, if the errors of the business had not happened. 
In this situation, If things had gone correctly, Mr T and Miss K would have been informed 
immediately that their policy did not cover the type of cylinder they had. That would have 
been the end of the matter with Astrenska, but Miss K and Mr T would have had to engage 
their own contractor and would likely have encountered a short delay waiting for a new 
cylinder to be ordered. They would then have been charged for the replacement of the 
cylinder and had to fund this privately. Mr T and Miss K and their family were without heating and hot water for a period of some 
days in addition to the days waiting for the new cylinder to be ordered. This ought to be 
compensated. 
Astrenska reimbursed Miss K and Mr K for their additional contractors, and for additional 
heating. It paid for a new cylinder which was not covered, and reimbursed the additional 
costs Mr T and Miss K had incurred. It then offer £700 compensation for the time without 
heating and water. 
I understand that Mr T and Miss K do not think this sufficient, but I agree with the investigator 
that this offer is in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances. I consider it 
reasonable and fair. 
I therefore do not direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr T and Miss Ks complaint but think that Astrenska 
Insurance Limited has made a reasonable offer of compensation. I do not direct Astrenska 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman