DRN-2893230
The complaint
Mr M complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds handling of a 
claim he made on his pet insurance policy. All references to Red Sands include its agents. 
Mr M says:
He didnt know hed have to make a 20% co-payment due to his pets age.
Hed previously called to increase his level of cover, but this hasnt been actioned.
Hes paid two excesses. 
Hes now being chased by solicitors for the amount Red Sands hasnt paid. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to partially 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Was the co-payment brought to Mr Ms attention? 
The policy booklet Mr Ms been sent each year contains a key facts section which 
summarises any significant and unusual features of cover. It says:
A co-payment is payable for dogs aged 8 years and older and for cats aged 10 
years and older.
In 2019 and 2020, this information was highlighted to Mr M in a two page insurance product 
information document (IPID), in addition to the key facts section of the policy booklet.
Furthermore, Red Sands sent Mr M a covering email with his policy documentation in 2020 
that said, as his pet was now over a certain age, a co-payment would be payable in the 
event of a claim. And the 2020 policy schedule showed a co-payment of 20%. All of this 
information was sent in good time before the renewal date. 
In light of the above, I find that Red Sands gave Mr M clear information that a co-payment 
would apply once his pet reached a certain age. 
Has Red Sands applied the correct annual condition limit?
Red Sands has carried out a search of its records and can find no evidence that Mr M got in 
touch to request an increase in his level of cover. Our investigator asked Mr M to submit 
information about this, for example evidence of a phone call to Red Sands phone number, 
so he could consider things further. 
Mr M sent us what he said was a copy of an email that said please can you upgrade my 
cover to 4000 thanks but I dont find this persuasive. Mr M hasnt forwarded the email, hes 
just included the above wording in an email to our investigator. So, theres no evidence such 
an email was ever sent to Red Sands, what email address it was sent to or on what date.
In any event, Mr M hasnt indicated he ever got a reply, and doesnt seem to have chased 
Red Sands when he didnt receive an updated policy schedule. So, based on what Ive seen 
so far, I think its reasonable for Red Sands to apply the condition limit shown in the 2020 
policy schedule (£2,000). 
Has Red Sands applied the condition limit fairly? 
Red Sands has deducted the co-payment and excess from the annual condition limit of 
£2,000. Calculating claim settlements this way means that in practice, Mr M will never be 
able to claim up to the annual condition limit. 
This is a significant limitation, so Ive considered whether Red Sands made clear in the 
policy documentation that this was how the policy would work (taking into account that it will 
have advertised the policy as having an annual condition limit of £2,000).
The policy booklets Mr M received in 2017 and 2018 didnt explain that either the excess or 
the co-payment would be deducted from the policy limits. The policy schedule did refer to the 
relevant limits as the maximum benefits before excess. But it didnt explicitly clarify that, 
although the annual condition limit was £2,000, the maximum amount that Mr M would ever 
receive in the event of a claim was £1,901 (or less once a co-payment became applicable).
While the policy booklets Mr M received in 2019 and 2020 explained the co-payment and 
excesses are deducted from the annual condition limit, this wasnt highlighted in the IPIDs, 
which should contain a clear summary of any significant and unusual features of the policy. 
The references to the excess and co-payment in the key facts section of the policy booklets 
just said, this is deducted from the condition limit. Again, there was nothing explicit which 
clarified that this meant although the annual condition limit was £2,000, the maximum Mr M 
could claim for any one condition in a policy year was less than that (quite considerably less 
once the co-payment became applicable too). 
A working example of how the excess and co-payment would be deducted is given in an 
FAQ section of the 2019 and 2020 policy booklets, but I dont consider it to be sufficiently 
prominent and there was nothing to draw Mr Ms attention to it. 
Red Sands included a know your cover document with the 2020 renewal pack which gave 
another working example of how claims settlements would be calculated. But this document 
was simply added as an attachment to a renewal email. There was no reference to it in the 
covering email (or any of the other documents) that would have alerted Mr M to the fact that 
it contained an important explanation of a significant feature of his policy that wasnt included 
in the IPID, policy schedule or key facts section of his policy wording.
Overall, Im not satisfied Red Sands gave clear information about this feature of the policy to 
Mr M, so I dont think it can fairly deduct the excess or co-payment from the annual condition 
limit. I therefore intend to direct it to pay Mr M the remainder of the annual condition limit. 
I understand Mr M is being chased for the amount that wasnt covered by his policy. But as 
above I think some of this deficit should have been paid by Red Sands. As Red Sands ought 
to have paid roughly 40% of the shortfall, I intend to direct it to pay that proportion of any 
interest and charges that have accrued. Has Mr M paid two excesses?
Mr M has sent us evidence that the two vet surgeries involved in his pets treatment took a 
payment of £99 (which matches the policy excess). But as our investigator explained, its 
clear from Red Sands records that it only deducted one excess. Thats because the excess 
applies per condition per policy year, and all of the treatment related to the same problem.
As such, Mr M will need to discuss this with the vet surgeries to ensure the balance hes 
being pursued for is correct. Once hes done so, he should forward any final amounts owing 
to Red Sands for it to calculate its contribution to any interest and charges that are owed as 
per the above. 
My provisional decision 
I intend to uphold this complaint in part and direct Red Sands to pay Mr M the remainder of 
the annual condition limit of £2,000. I also intend to direct it to contribute 40% of any interest 
and charges that have accrued on the outstanding balance owed by Mr M. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Our investigator sent my provisional decision to both parties by email. The deadline for a 
response was set as 23 June 2021. This was highlighted in the covering email, and in the 
provisional decision itself. 
We received an automated acknowledgement email from Red Sands confirming our email 
had been received, but no further response after that. Mr M didnt respond either, but I can 
see hes emailed us before from the email address we sent the provisional decision to, so I 
think hes likely to have received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither party has presented any further evidence or arguments for me 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.   
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited to pay Mr M the remainder of the annual condition limit of £2,000. I also direct it to 
contribute 40% of any interest and charges that have accrued on the outstanding balance 
owed by Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman