DRN-3419175
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy as she feels that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, provided her with credit 
that wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss P applied for a NewDay credit account. Her application was approved, 
and NewDay issued Miss P with an account with an initial credit limit of £900. In December 
2020, NewDay increased the credit limit on Miss Ps account from £900 to £1,200.
In October 2021, Miss P raised a complaint with NewDay because she felt she hadnt been 
able to afford the new and further credit that NewDay had provided to her and that this 
should have been apparent to NewDay, had they undertaken checks into her financial 
position before providing that credit.
NewDay looked at Miss Ps complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks into 
her financial position before offering credit to her, and that there was nothing resulting from 
those checks which they felt should have given them cause to suspect that Miss P might not 
be able to afford the credit being offered to her.
Miss P wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it should have been 
apparent from the information that NewDay had assessed about Miss P that she wouldnt in 
all likelihood have been able to afford the credit that was subsequently offered to her, and so 
they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Miss Ps favour on that basis.
NewDay didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
 
NewDay believe that they did that here, and note that at the time of the application they took 
information from Miss P about her employment and annual income, as well as obtained 
information about Miss P from a credit reference agency so as to get a better understanding 
of her wider financial position. And NewDay contend that there was nothing resulting from 
that information that they feel should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that 
Miss P might not be able to afford the credit she was subsequently approved for.
When Miss P applied for the credit account in April 2019, she told NewDay she had an 
income of £5,520 per year, which equates to £460 per month. This is a low level of monthly 
income, and theres a much greater chance that a person with such a low level of monthly 
income may have little disposable income remaining after their monthly essential spending 
has been accounted for.
Additionally, NewDay also assessed Miss P as having £8,400 of existing unsecured debt. 
This equates to over one a half times Miss Ps declared annual income, and when 
considered alongside the low monthly income Miss P had, its very difficult to understand 
how Miss P might  have paid off that level of existing debt within a reasonable period of time. 
Consequently, its also very difficult to understand how NewDay would consider it 
responsible or sustainable to provide Miss P with even more credit at that time.
NewDay have explained that their review of Miss Ps credit file didnt show that Miss P was 
in arrears on any of her existing credit commitments and appeared to be managing her 
financial position without incident. But I feel that Miss Ps prohibitively high debt-to-income 
ratio, along with her low monthly income and her correspondingly low chance of having 
significant disposable income, should have given NewDay cause to conclude that the 
provision of further credit wasnt sustainable or affordable, or in Miss Ps best interests at 
that time.
All of which means that I do feel that NewDay have provided credit to Miss P irresponsibly 
here, and it follows that Ill be upholding this complaint in Miss Ps favour on that basis.
Miss P is currently in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). For that reason, weve let 
the IVA supervisor know about the award  as theyve said they have an interest in this 
complaint and would like the money paid to them, to go towards the IVA arrangement.
This service can only recommend an award to be paid directly to the eligible complainant 
under our rules, which will still be Miss P. It may be a breach of the IVA arrangement if    
Miss P doesnt declare this award to the IVA supervisor. But, if the IVA supervisor wants the 
money that may result from this award, theyll need to go to Miss P directly.
Putting things right
NewDay must reimburse to Miss Ps account all interest, fees and charges incurred or 
accrued on the account from the point of opening. 
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Miss Ps favour, NewDay must pay this 
balance to Miss P along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of payment.
If after the reimbursements instructed above, any balance remains for Miss P to pay, 
NewDay must contact Miss P to arrange a suitable repayment plan with her, ensuring that 
no interest is applied to the outstanding balance. 
Finally, NewDay must remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Miss Ps 
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, on the 
basis explained above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman