DRN-3096925
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
his request for assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with VWFS. The 
agreement was for 24 months; with an advance rental of £585.06, and 23 monthly rental 
payments of £585.34. In May 2021, VWFS granted Mr B a three-month extension to the 
agreement.
On 1 April 2020, Mr B contacted VWFS to let them know that his income had been affected 
by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and that he wouldnt be able to make his monthly 
repayments. At VWFSs request, he completed a financial difficulties form. And the payment 
due on 7 April 2020 wasnt paid.
On 27 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to financial 
businesses about how they should deal with customers whose income had been affected by 
Covid-19. On 6 May 2020, in line with the FCA guidance, Mr B asked VWFS for a payment 
deferral. VWFS initially told Mr B that hed been granted a payment deferral, that payments 
on his account were suspended, and that his credit file wouldnt be affected.
However, VWFS then told Mr B that the payment deferral hadnt been approved, because 
his account was in arrears  the missed payment for April 2020. Mr B complained to VWFS 
about how theyd dealt with the payment deferral application, and because they were 
reporting arrears to the credit reference agencies. And, because VWFS didnt respond to Mr 
Bs complaint within the timescale allowed, he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Mr B missed his payments from April to October 2020. VWFS eventually responded to his 
complaint, partially upholding it and offering Mr B £100 compensation. But, because VWFS 
didnt remove the adverse markers from Mr Bs credit file, he continued with his complaint 
through us.
Our investigator didnt think VWFS had acted fairly. She said that Mr Bs financial difficulties 
started in April 2020 and were as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And she didnt think 
VWFS shouldve declined Mr Bs request for assistance because he missed the April 2020 
payment. Instead she said that VWFS shouldve approved the request for a three-month 
payment deferral and backdated it  applying it for the April, May and June 2020 payments.
She also said that the FCA issued further guidance in July 2020, which allowed for a second 
payment deferral period. So, she thought VWFS shouldve granted this as well, applying it 
for the July, August and September 2020 payments. Furthermore, because the FCA 
guidance allowed for tailored support and short-term arrangements where a customer makes 
no payments for a specified period, the investigator said that VWFS shouldve put such an 
arrangement in place for the October 2020 payment. Which meant that VWFS shouldnt be 
reporting any of the payments Mr B missed between April and October 2020 as arrears.
So, the investigator said that VWFS should amend Mr Bs credit file, removing this adverse 
information, and pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused.
Both Mr B and VWFS accepted the investigators recommendations. But Mr B has 
subsequently said that VWFS are still reporting arrears on his account on a monthly basis, 
then manually correcting this with the credit reference agencies. And this has impacted him 
being able to remortgage his property. Because of this, Mr B has asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this matter arent in dispute. And VWFS have accepted that they couldve 
done better. Because of this, my decision will concentrate on the outstanding point of 
contention  Mr Bs credit file. From the information Mr B has provided about his credit file, I 
can see that VWFS are automatically reporting a missed payment every month to the credit 
reference agencies. And then this is being manually corrected by VWFS to remove the 
missed payment marker from his credit file.
Mr B has also said that hes been declined for a remortgage application, by four separate 
companies, due to adverse credit late payment markers on my account from one company 
 VWFS. Hes also said that the fact that four mortgage lenders have done searches 
against him will affect his also affect his credit rating.
Mr B would prefer that VWFS dont report any arrears at all, rather than manually correct 
what they report every month. But VWFSs system is set up to automatically report any 
arrears to the credit reference agencies. Situations like this, which resulted from the Covid-
19 pandemic, were as a result of unprecedented circumstances. And financial businesses 
like VWFS havent necessarily made changes to their systems to suppress reporting where it 
results from support provided under the FCAs Covid-19 guidelines. Its not the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to tell financial businesses what policies and procedures they 
should have in place, nor is it out role to tell financial businesses to make changes to their 
systems. This is something that VWFS would do in conjunction with the FCA.
Because of this, I cant say that VWFS have done anything wrong by manually adjusting 
their reporting for customers like Mr B, and I wont be telling them they need to change how 
they report arrears to the credit reference agencies.
I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr B. But VWFS have offered to assist him, by letting 
him know when a manual adjustment has been made so he can let his mortgage company 
know when they can do a search. Given the circumstances, I think this is a reasonable offer. Mr B has also said that hes been turned down by four different mortgage companies 
because of the information VWFS have put on his credit file. While I dont doubt that Mr B 
wasnt successful in his mortgage applications, mortgage applications can be declined for a 
number or combination of factors. And I havent seen anything to show me, for example a 
letter from a mortgage lender, that Mr B was declined for a mortgage solely because VWFS 
were automatically reporting arrears, then manually adjusting this reporting on a monthly 
basis. Because of this, I wont be asking VWFS to increase the compensation.
Putting things right
Its my understanding that VWFS have paid the £200 compensation to Mr B on 8 September 
2021. However, if this isnt the case, and this compensation hasnt been paid, then VWFS 
should pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience their refusal to grant him 
assistance under the FCA Covid-19 guidelines has caused.
VWFS should also continue to ensure that the missed payments for the period April to 
October 2020 arent recorded as arrears on Mr Bs credit file, making manual adjustments to 
his credit file as and when necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman