DRN-1870658
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a cancellation claim under 
their travel insurance cover. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P hold travel insurance cover through their packaged bank account. 
Mr P was due to go on a trip when a close relative fell seriously ill. He therefore decided to 
cancel the trip. His relative then sadly passed away. Mr and Mrs P submitted a cancellation 
claim to AXA.
AXA didnt pay the claim, as it said Mr and Mrs P werent able to show that Mr P had 
cancelled his trip. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs P brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed with AXA that Mr 
and Mrs P hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support that the trip had been cancelled.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been referred to me 
to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
We will pay you up to £5,000for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costswhich You have paid or are contracted to payif:
a. Cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable

as a result of any of the following events occurring:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness of:

d. Your Close Relative
As Mr Ps close relative was ill and then sadly passed away, a cancellation claim would be 
potentially covered under the policy terms. However, for AXA to pay the claim, the onus is on 
Mr and Mrs P to show that they have a valid claim.
Although Mr and Mrs P had initially included hotel costs in their claim, they later advised 
AXA theyd received a refund from the hotel. I therefore understand they are now only 
claiming for the loss of the flights. 
Under the policy terms AXA is only required to cover any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs. When a trip is cancelled, a customer may receive a partial or full 
refund, and if that happened, AXA would only need to cover the portion of costs which were 
irrecoverable. So, in the first instance, Mr and Mrs P need to show that they cancelled the 
flights, then secondly, theyd need to show what their loss was (in other words, that they 
didnt receive a partial refund for the cancelled flights). 
Mr and Mrs P have provided an e-ticket for the flights. Im therefore satisfied the flights were 
booked.  
Mrs P has provided some text messages relating to the cancellation of the trip, and the 
refund she apparently received in relation to the cancelled flights. It appears those 
messages are with a travel operator who is based abroad, though I cant see a telephone 
number to confirm this. 
Mrs P has also provided an email to the airline in which she says she called it to cancel the 
flight and paid £150 cancellation fee  and shed been advised shed receive an email 
confirming this together with a refund, but hadnt received either. 
Its not clear why Mrs P needed to cancel the flights herself when she had a message from 
the travel operator which says theyd cancelled the flights and had issued her with a refund. 
Its also not clear how the travel operator could have cancelled the flights on Mr Ps behalf. If 
there were evidence that the travel operator had arranged those flights for Mr P, then that 
may be understandable. However, it appears from the e-ticket that Mr and Mrs P booked the 
flights themselves. 
For me to be satisfied that the flights were cancelled, I think Mr and Mrs P need to provide 
confirmation of this from the airline itself, or confirmation that the flights werent boarded by 
Mr P. 
Whilst Ive confirmed my understanding above that Mr and Mrs P are no longer including the 
cost of the hotel in their claim, for completeness, I note that they havent been able to 
provide evidence of the booking or cancellation for the hotel either. 
As Mr and Mrs P havent been able to show they cancelled the hotel or flights, Im satisfied 
that AXA didnt do anything wrong by refusing to pay their claim. If Mr and Mrs P can obtain 
this information, they should provide it to AXA. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman