DRN-2638065
The complaint
Mrs W, on behalf of the estate of Mr W, complains that Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited (L&G) declined the claims made on Mr Ws two life assurance policies, 
cancelled the policies from the start and refunded the premiums.
What happened
In January 2016 Mr W took out two 20-year level term life assurance policies with L&G. One 
had critical illness cover included at a sum assured of £100,000. The other had a sum 
assured of £250,000. 
Sadly, in 2019 Mr W died. Following this Mrs W submitted a claim. 
L&G noted that the report it received outlining Mr Ws cause of death said hed had a 
longstanding history of excess alcohol consumption for which hed previously attended 
rehabilitation. To help its assessment of the claim, L&G requested information from Mr Ws 
GP. It then became aware that Mr W had a history of alcohol problems. In particular, it noted 
that: 
In February 2010, when giving details about his general health, Mr W declared a 
weekly alcohol consumption of 18 units which was given an alcohol audit score of 9. 
L&G noted the government website states anyone with a score between 8-19 be 
given brief advice and encouraged to reduce their use of alcohol.
In March 2012 Mr Ws medical notes indicate harmful alcohol use. And then at a 
later appointment he requested to be referred to alcohol support services.
In June 2012 Mr W attended A&E for pain and was noted to be drinking seven pints, 
three times a week. The records stated he was advised to reduce alcohol.
Later in June 2012 Mr W spoke to his GP about some blood test results and was 
advised to stop drinking.
An entry after the start of the policies in October 2018 notes Mr W had a 19-year 
history of alcohol problems which had become worse over the past 3 years.
Given this, L&G felt Mr W had answered the following questions incorrectly in his policy 
application:
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
Mr W answered no.
L&G decided Mr W had recklessly misrepresented his circumstances by failing to share this 
information in the application form. It said that given his long-standing history of alcohol 
misuse, he shouldve known hed answered the question incorrectly. L&G said it would never 
have offered Mr W the policies had it known about his alcohol history. It declined the claim, 
avoided his policies (cancelled the policies from the start) and refunded the premiums.
Mrs W didnt think this was fair and so she complained. But L&G didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs W then brought her concerns to our service. Our investigator looked into things and was 
of the view that L&G had acted reasonably.
Mrs W disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Im sorry for Mrs Ws loss and I was saddened to read about 
the challenging circumstances shes faced since losing Mr W.
I want to assure Mrs W that whilst Ive read and considered everything L&G and Mrs W have 
said, I may not address each and every point made. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider the 
crux of the complaint to be  L&G declining the claims and avoiding the policies. I hope both 
parties realise I mean no disrespect by this  it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time L&G made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2019. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific. 
The code also says consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the 
opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Where the misrepresentation is 
considered reckless an insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premiums, providing the 
misrepresentation would have led to a different underwriting outcome. The code also notes 
that avoiding a policy should be confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.
Where a misrepresentation is careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy and return the 
premiums, CIDRA says the misrepresentation/s would have to have resulted in the 
application being declined.
 
I noted that Mrs W has highlighted alcohol had nothing to do with Mr Ws death. But Id like 
to stress any connection, or lack thereof, between the alleged misrepresentation and the 
cause of death isnt a relevant consideration here. What I need to look at is whether a 
misrepresentation occurred at the application stage and, if so, what L&Gs underwriting 
decision would have been if the relevant information was given at the point of application. 
What matters here is whether the information that should have been provided but wasnt 
would have impacted the terms offered, not whether the misrepresentation was linked to the 
cause of death. Was there a misrepresentation?
After Mr Ws application was submitted, L&G wrote to him asking him to check his details. 
Mr W was provided with a copy of the questions and answers submitted as part of his 
application. He was then asked to sign a form to confirm the information was correct or 
provide details of any amendments if not. Mr W signed to confirm his details were correct.
The form advised Mr W If any of your answers or any other statements made about your 
application are incorrect, are incomplete, or out of date we can refuse any claim and cancel 
your policy or policies. It warned him to read the enclosed Personal Details Document 
carefully and check the answers youve given us. And Mr W signed to confirm his details 
were correct.
There were various warnings throughout the document about the importance of checking the 
information. Given this, Im satisfied Mr W had access to his application, the questions asked 
and his answers. And I think he was given sufficient warning by L&G about the importance of 
ensuring these were correct.
So, Ive thought about the main question L&G said Mr W answered incorrectly which was:
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
L&G thinks there is clear evidence Mr W had been advised to reduce his alcohol 
consumption  so it thinks this was a misrepresentation by Mr W. 
I note Mrs W feels that the suggestion Mr W misrepresented his circumstances is an 
allegation that he intended to deceive  shes understandably very upset by this given Mr W 
isnt around to explain his answer. But I think its important to clarify that a misrepresentation 
can happen without dishonesty. I would note that in its response to her complaint, L&G did 
clarify it wasnt suggesting Mr W deliberately misled it but it felt the answer of no was 
reckless as it felt Mr W ought to have realised his answer was wrong. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ws GP records and Im satisfied they contain the references to alcohol 
consumption, and the advice to stop, that L&G identified as outlined above. I agree Mr W 
had been advised, on more than one occasion, by a health professional to reduce his 
alcohol intake. I think the question L&G asked is specific and clear and the answer of no 
was inaccurate. Given this I do think L&G can fairly say theres been a misrepresentation 
here. 
In reaching this decision I have thought about the fact Mrs W has said she doesnt think L&G 
was clear about what it meant by a health professional. She said Mr W may not have 
considered the alcohol support service staff health professionals. I understand Mrs Ws point 
here, but Mr W was still advised at A&E to reduce his alcohol intake (advice that would have 
been given by a nurse or doctor) and by his GP. And I dont think L&G needs to provide a 
specific definition of a health professional for a reasonable consumer to understand that a 
GP, doctor or nurse would fall into this category. 
I also note Mrs W has questioned the accuracy of Mr Ws medical records which she felt 
contained numerous incorrect references. However, Ive seen no evidence that persuades 
me the relevant entries are inaccurate. 
Mrs W has also highlighted that the entries on Mr Ws medical records about the nature of 
the advice he received are vague. Mrs W has stressed theres a difference between a stern 
reprimand and the suggestion you should avoid another drink. And Id agree there is a 
difference  if there was only one entry where Mr W had received general lifestyle advice, then I think a reasonable consumer in his circumstances might not think to declare this. 
But Mr Ws drinking had reached the level where both he and his GP felt it was appropriate 
to refer him to alcohol support services. Given this, Im satisfied Mr W understood that the 
medical professionals were of the opinion he should reduce his intake and I dont think he 
could reasonably have interpreted the instances he did receive advice as general lifestyle or 
circumstance specific recommendations. So I dont think this sufficiently explains why Mr W 
answered no here.
Was this a qualifying misrepresentation?
L&G has said that had it known that Mr W had been advised to reduce his alcohol intake it 
would have requested more information from his GP and it then wouldnt have offered him 
cover.
Having seen the underwriting guidance, Im satisfied this is the case. Which means L&G is 
fairly entitled to decline the claims and avoid the policies as it has done. Whilst L&G has 
categorised this misrepresentation as reckless, its also refunded the premiums in line with 
what Id expect for a careless misrepresentation. So overall, Im satisfied L&G has acted 
reasonably here. 
I know Mrs W doesnt feel this one question could so fundamentally alter the terms L&G 
would have offered. As our investigator explained, were not able to share the underwriting 
evidence as its commercially sensitive information. But Id like to reassure Mrs W that Ive 
carefully reviewed this evidence before reaching this decision. 
Im aware this decision will be an immense disappointment to Mrs W and I dont wish to 
cause her any upset. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think L&G needs to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman