DRN-3674319
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T say British Gas Insurance Limited caused damage to their property following 
a claim against their home emergency insurance policy. 
Reference to British Gas include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mrs T and Mr T reported water was flowing from the toilet cistern into the bowl. 
British Gas attended, removed the toilet, fitted new parts, and left. 
Later, In August 2021, Mrs T and Mr T reported some mould at the back of the toilet, water 
staining on the hallway ceiling below, and water had tracked through into a lightbulb. British 
Gas attended and the engineer tightened the compression fitting on the toilet. Mr T says the 
engineer told them the leak was the result of the previous engineer failing to tighten this 
fitting. 
Mrs T and Mr T complained to British Gas. They also raised a claim with their home insurer 
to repair the damaged caused by the water leak. They say British Gas caused the leak 
during a visit in July 2021. 
Although Mrs T and Mr T think British Gas caused the leak and damage, British Gas havent 
accepted liability. Mrs T and Mr T say they had to make a home insurance claim and paid an 
excess they think British Gas should refund. They also think they should be compensated for 
the level of distress and inconvenience this caused. 
British Gas later responded to Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint around December 2021. Although 
this didnt include any admission of liability, they paid Mrs T and Mr T £250 compensation for 
the delays in responding to the complaint. As Mrs T and Mr T remained unhappy, they 
approached our service. 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 August 2022, which set out the following:  
A key finding I must make is whether Im most persuaded that British Gas caused the leak 
and subsequent damage, or whether damage was already occurring prior to their engineer 
attending. And having considered all the evidence available to me, on balance, Im currently 
most persuaded by Mrs T and Mr Ts testimony that the leak and subsequent damage wasnt 
occurring prior to British Gas attending in July 2021. Ill explain why. 
It's clear there was an issue with the toilet prior to British Gas attending. The notes suggest 
Mrs T and Mr T reported that water was flowing from the cistern into the bowl. But what 
doesnt appear to have been reported is a further leak that wasnt contained within the toilet 
itself. 
It isnt disputed the first engineer removed the toilet from its fittings. This was then later 
screwed into place following a further visit, and the engineer says they tested the toilet and 
no issues were found. Although, Mrs T and Mr T later reported  in August 2021  they had 
found some mould, water stains, and water underneath the flooring. 
Ive weighed up the evidence in this case, and I appreciate its finely balanced. Mrs T and Mr 
T, however, say the damage listed above wasnt present until after the first engineer had 
removed the toilet and carried out repairs. I find their testimony persuasive, consistent, and 
have seen no evidence that undermines it  such as engineers notes which suggest damage 
was already present due to what was first reported by Mrs T and Mr T before British Gas 
attended. 
In August 2021, the engineers notes suggest they had to tighten the compression fitting. 
Mrs T and Mr T argue the first engineer  when removing the toilet from its fittings  would 
have also needed to remove the compression fitting and tighten it back up. This seems most 
likely and plausible given another engineer had to tighten this which appeared to stop the 
leak. 
Ive to look at the evidence and then make a judgement call here based on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think most likely caused the leak and damage. And in this case, I 
havent been persuaded the leak and subsequent damage Mrs T and Mr T reported in 
August 2021 was the result of what they initially reported when water was flowing from the 
cistern into the bowl. 
The damage Mrs T and Mr T found in August 2021 wasnt noted by engineers or reported 
until after the first engineer had removed the toilet and carried out repairs. Given its 
accepted by all parties that the toilet was removed during repairs, damage was unlikely 
present until after this, and another engineer had to tighten the compression fitting, Im 
satisfied the most likely scenario here points to the leak being the result of the compression 
fitting, which caused water damage to Mrs T and Mr Ts property. 
Mrs T and Mr T say this led to them having to make a home insurance claim they otherwise 
wouldnt have done. And I havent seen any strong supporting evidence that demonstrates 
they would have been required to do so but for British Gass actions. 
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I currently intend on directing British Gas to refund Mrs T 
and Mr Ts home insurance excess, and include interest. I also intend on directing British 
Gas to pay Mrs T and Mr T a further £150 compensation (in addition to the £250 thats 
already been paid) to recognise the level of distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused them. This further payment is also to reflect the inconvenience and impact on Mrs T 
and Mr T having to make a home insurance claim Im not persuaded they otherwise would 
have needed to. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I currently intend on requiring British Gas 
Insurance Limited to: 
-Reimburse the excess payment Mrs T and Mr T paid to their home insurer, and 
include 8% simple interest, from the date this payment was made by them, to the 
date of settlement; and 
-Pay them £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs T and Mr T responded to say their home insurer refunded the claim excess they paid. They say their home insurer took this decision following conversations with British Gass 
agent around March 2022. They also say their home insurance premium could increase if 
their home insurer is unable to recover their outlay and think British Gas should cover this in 
full. 
British Gas responded to say they requested more information from their agent. They didnt 
indicate whether they accepted my provisional decision within the timeframe I set out. Im 
satisfied, however, I have all the evidence I need to reach a final decision on the matter, 
which follows. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When issuing my provisional decision, I kept in mind the possibility that Mrs T and Mr Ts 
home insurer may decide to refund the claim excess they paid  which has now happened. 
Although what remains is whether British Gas accept liability for the damage, and the 
prospects of Mrs T and Mr Ts home insurer recovering their claim outlay for the subsequent 
damage. 
I fully understand why Mrs T and Mr T think British Gas should cover their home insurers 
claim costs. However, this is now a matter for their home insurer and British Gas to consider 
and resolve directly. Im unable to interfere with this even though I know how strongly Mrs T 
and Mr T feel I should. 
Even with the new information thats come to light from Mrs T and Mr T regarding their home 
insurance excess payment being refunded, the outcome I provisionally set out remains the 
same, but for different reasons. Ill explain why. 
Im unable to direct British Gas to refund Mrs T and Mr Ts home insurance excess because 
thats now been refunded back to them. I do, however, still think British Gas should pay 
interest here from the date Mrs T and Mr T paid their excess to their home insurer, to the 
date it was refunded. This reflects the period they were without these funds. So, British Gas 
must calculate this amount now and pay it to Mrs T and Mr T. 
The original claim was reported in 2021 and has become a longstanding dispute  in my 
view  unnecessarily. And led to them needing to make a home insurance claim I dont think 
they otherwise would have needed to, but for British Gass actions, as set out above. Not 
only should the claim have ran far smoother than it did, the impact of making a home 
insurance claim could impact Mrs T and Mr T moving forward with their insurance premiums, 
amongst other things. 
I appreciate British Gas have already made a compensation payment to Mrs T and Mr T for 
£250. But the claim notes suggest this payment was for the delays caused when responding 
to the complaint. So, whilst I wont be directing British Gas to refund the £450 home 
insurance excess Mrs T and Mr T paid, Ill be directing them to pay this amount in 
recognition of the way things were handled overall. And the frustration, distress, and 
inconvenience this caused Mrs T and Mr T. 
As mentioned above, theres also the possibility here of Mrs T and Mr T being impacted in 
future following the home insurance claim for the subsequent damage. So, to recognise this, 
Ill also be directing British Gas to pay Mrs T and Mr T a further £150 compensation. So, the 
total compensation amount British Gas must pay Mrs T and Mr T is £600. Putting things right
British Gas must now pay Mrs T and Mr T £600 compensation in total. This payment is to 
recognise the impact on them due to the way things were handled, and the potential future 
impact on them following the subsequent home insurance claim. 
British Gas must also calculate and pay 8% simple interest on the £450 home insurance 
policy excess payment made by Mrs T and Mr T, from the date it was paid, to the date it was 
refunded by their home insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I now require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following: 
Pay Mrs T and Mr T £600 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused 
and 
Pay 8% simple interest on the policy excess payment refunded by Mrs Ts and Mr Ts 
home insurer  from the date they made the payment, to the date it was refunded. 
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs T and Mr T how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mrs T and Mr T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman