DRN-2289314
The complaint
Mr J complains about the costs Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) charged him for 
handling his claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr Js boiler failed to start. An engineer who came out under his home 
emergency insurance policy replaced the boiler fan. The following day Mr Js boiler failed to 
start again. The engineer said the old fan had taken out the circuit board on the boiler, 
which therefore needed to be replaced.
The total cost of Mr Js claim was £483.60. His policy excess was £60. The limit on Mr Js 
boiler cover was £300, because his claim was made within three months of his policys start 
date. RSA charged Mr J £183.60 for replacing the fan and the circuit board. 
Mr J complained to RSA. He didnt think he should be charged for the circuit board failure 
because it seemed this was caused by the engineer replacing the fan.
RSA didnt uphold Mr Js complaint, so he came to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Js 
complaint upheld it. He thought the excess was the first part of the policyholders claim and 
so should be deducted from the total cost of the claim, with RSA covering the remaining 
amount, up to the policy limit. So he thought RSA should reimburse Mr J £60 and pay him 
8% per annum simple interest on that amount from the date he paid RSA £183.60 until the 
date of settlement.
RSA disagrees and so Mr Js complaint has come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
My starting point is Mr Js home emergency insurance policy. This says the excess is the 
first part of each and every claim he must pay before an engineer is sent to assess his claim. 
It says the charge doesnt apply to subsequent visits made within 30 days to fix the fault 
identified at the initial callout. 
As Ive mentioned, Mr Js policy has an excess of £60.
Mr Js policy also says for the first three months from his policy start date, RSA will only pay 
a maximum of £300 for any claim relating to his central heating boiler.
The cost of the repairs to Mr Js boiler was £483.60. Having taken payment for his excess of 
£60 when it sent out its engineer, RSA said Mr J also had to pay £183.60 to get his boiler 
repaired.
RSA says its entitled to do this because Mr Js policy excess of £60 and his cover limit of 
£300 are unrelated. It says the excess is an amount that must be paid before an engineer is 
sent out.
Like our investigator, I dont agree. Our general approach to cases like these is that a policy 
excess is a policyholders contribution towards the claim. So it should be deducted from the 
full claim amount and the insurer should then cover the remaining amount of the claim up to 
the policy limit. 
In this case, the full claim amount was £483.60 and the limit on cover was £300. Deducting 
the excess from the full claim amount leaves a balance of £423.60. This means RSA 
shouldve charged Mr J £123.60 (rather than £183.60) to repair the boiler. So I think its fair 
and reasonable RSA should reimburse Mr J £60 (plus simple interest) to put things right for 
him.
Mr J has queried whether the engineer shouldve found the fault with the circuit board on his 
first visit  meaning he wouldnt have incurred some of the costs of the second visit. 
Ive looked at the engineers notes of his visits. For the first visit, they say the old fan failed 
due to wear and tear. They say he replaced the old fan, carried out all safety checks and all 
was correct. For the second visit the following day, they say the old fan took out the circuit 
board. They also say the engineer contacted the boiler manufacturer to discuss his findings 
and these were confirmed by the manufacturer. 
I understand from RSA the circuit board needed to be replaced due to the circuitry being 
damaged over time by the old fan. RSA says that, since on the first visit, the repair was 
(seemingly) successful, it wouldnt have expected the engineer to have diagnosed both 
components during the same attendance. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think this 
was an unreasonable position for RSA to have taken. On that basis, I dont think RSA did 
anything substantially wrong here.
  
Putting things right
I direct RSA to put things right for Mr J as Ive set out below.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr J £60 to reimburse him for his claim. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should also pay Mr J simple interest of 8% per annum 
on this amount from the date he paid RSA £183.60 to the date of settlement. 
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman