DRN-4517697
Complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed her after she fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
In June 2022, Mrs H received a call from a man who claimed to be an employee of a 
business specialising in cryptocurrencies. He told her that an e-wallet which was under her 
control had a balance of over £50,000 waiting for her to withdraw. Unfortunately, the caller 
wasnt a legitimate employee of a cryptocurrency business, but a fraudster.
She had made a small investment in cryptocurrency several months earlier of around £500. 
The business to which shed made that payment wasnt (and didnt purport to be) the same 
business that contacted her in respect of her £50,000 that was ready for withdrawal. 
However, Mrs H assumed that there was a connection between the two. She hadnt looked 
at her genuine cryptocurrency account for some months but didnt go back to check what the 
balance was.
There then followed a series of interactions between Mrs H and different individuals who all 
claimed to be assisting her with accessing her £50,000. She was told that each payment 
was a legal or technical necessity to enable her to get access to her money. Some were 
described as fees and charges, others as collateral that would be returned to her once the 
transaction concluded.
In total, Mrs H transferred over £100,000 in around one month. A detailed account of the 
circumstances that led to each payment was set out in the Investigators view and so I dont 
think its necessary to repeat that description here. However, it is worth setting out how Mrs 
H responded when Metro and two other banks involved in the scam spoke to her about the 
payments.
She spoke to Metro Bank on 30 June and 7 July to discuss payments that she was making. 
In the second of those calls, she was asked the purpose of the payment. She said it was a 
personal investment.
On 6 July, she spoke with a different bank and was asked about a £3,000 payment she was 
intending to make. She told them that she was paying a fee for a training course. In her first 
conversation with an employee of that bank, she was asked whether the payment was for 
cryptocurrency. Mrs H responded No, no. Its cash. Im trying to buy something. In a later 
call, she was again asked about the purpose of the payment, and she said Its just one of 
the training companies Im working with. Im planning to join a course for nutritional therapy.
Once Mrs H realised that shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Metro. It looked into 
things but didnt agree to refund her losses. It argued that it had provided an Effective 
Warning prior to her making the payments to the scammer and that this should have made 
her think twice before proceeding. It also said it had done everything it could to recover Mrs 
Hs funds from the receiving account. Unfortunately, they were moved out of that account 
promptly and so no recovery was possible.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response shed received from Metro Bank and so she referred 
her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The 
Investigator noted that good industry practice required Metro to be on the lookout for out of 
character activity on Mrs Hs account that might have been an indication that there was a 
risk of financial harm due to fraud.
She thought that Metro ought to have intervened in connection with the 8th payment Mrs H 
made  a payment for £11,000 on 7 July. She accepted that, given the way Mrs H had 
responded when another bank asked her about other payments, she was unlikely to have 
answered questions from Metro honestly. However, she concluded that the activity on her 
Metro account was so out of character that, even if she werent forthcoming with information 
about the purpose of the payment when questioned, it shouldnt have accepted her first 
answer to its questions. The risk was too stark.
Metro disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint was passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 November 2023. I wrote:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account.
However, that isnt the end of the story. Good industry practice required that Metro be 
on the lookout for payments that were out of character or unusual to the extent that 
they might have indicated a fraud risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to 
intervene in a manner proportionate to the risk identified.
Metro is also a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). This code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment (APP) 
scams, like the one Mrs H fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Only the last four payments Mrs H made were covered by that Code and so Ill 
discuss those separately.
Payments 1 to 11
These payments were made by Mrs H to an account in her name with a different 
business. It was from there that she transferred the funds on to an account controlled 
by the fraudsters. The CRM Code only offers protection to customers where theyve 
made payment to another person  but in respect of these payments, Mrs H paid 
herself. As a result, the provisions of the Code dont apply.
However, as explained above, good industry practice meant that Metro needed to 
take some steps to protect Mrs H from the risk of fraud. The Investigator concluded 
that it shouldve identified the risk when Mrs H made a payment of £11,000 on 7 July. 
Im inclined to agree with that conclusion.
By that point, Mrs H had moved a significant amount of money in a very short space of time and this was the first payment above £10,000. The payments were being 
made to an account in Mrs Hs own name with a third-party firm. Thats something 
that one might reasonably think suggests a lower risk of fraud. However, this was 
consistent with a pattern of fraud that is well recognised in the industry. I think Metro 
ought to have been concerned and that the risk that Mrs H was falling victim to a 
scam was a foreseeable one
However, although Ive concluded that there was a clear point at which Metro ought 
to have intervened, it does not automatically follow that it needs to refund Mrs H. I 
cant ask it to do so unless I can reasonably conclude that its error was the cause of 
her loss. I have to take into account the law on this point. That means I need to be 
able to affirmatively answer the following question  would the damage or loss which 
Mrs H has complained about have occurred but for the failings of the respondent? 
In other words, is there sufficiently strong evidence to show that its more likely than 
not that, but for the failing on the part of Metro, the relevant loss would not have 
occurred? If the loss would have occurred in any event, the actions of Metro were not 
a but for cause.
To reach a conclusion on this point, I need to consider what would have happened if 
Metro had handled things differently. It ought to have contacted Mrs H and asked her 
about the payment. It should also have given her general guidance about the 
prevalence and risk of fraud and scams. However, Im not persuaded that such an 
intervention wouldve made a difference. As Ive explained in the background section 
of this decision, some other banks stopped payments made by Mrs H and called her. 
She wasnt open and honest with the employees of those banks when explaining 
what the purpose of the payment was so its difficult to see how things wouldve been 
different if Metro had called her.
The Investigator said that the character of the activity on Mrs Hs account was so 
unusual that, if Metro had intervened, it shouldnt have taken initial answers from Mrs 
H at face value  essentially, the risk was so much higher that it needed to adopt a 
more interventionist approach. Im not persuaded by that argument. Most of the funds 
that Mrs H lost to the scam were funded by a lump sum payment of around £80,000 
that was made into her Metro account. I understand this was from a savings product 
that had matured. It had presumably been in an interest-bearing product but was now 
in Mrs Hs current account.
I dont think it wouldve seemed particularly unusual to Metro for those funds to not sit 
in her current account for a significant length of time. And so, while I agree that it 
ought to have been concerned enough to call her to discuss the payments, Im not 
persuaded that there was such a clear and obvious risk that it ought to have 
interrogated Mrs H, not accepted her initial answers to its queries or blocked the 
payments. Overall, Im not persuaded that any errors on the part of Metro Bank were 
the cause of Mrs Hs losses here and so it doesnt need to refund those payments.
Payments 12 to 15
These four payments werent made to accounts in Mrs Hs name and so they are 
covered by the CRM Code. The starting presumption under the Code is that the 
customer should be reimbursed. However, there are circumstances under which 
Metro wouldnt be obliged to refund her. These are known as exceptions to 
reimbursement. A firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that:
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate; or
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made.
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but they dont apply here
Ive considered whether the first exception applies here  in other words, whether 
Mrs H made these payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the person 
or business with whom she transacted was legitimate. I accept that Mrs H did 
sincerely believe that these were necessary steps that she had to take in order to get 
access to her funds. However, I have to consider whether that belief was a 
reasonable one or not.
Im afraid I dont find that it was. Ive come to that conclusion for the following 
reasons:
I think she ought to have questioned whether it was realistic that her £500 
investment could have yielded a return of nearly £50,000 in just a few 
months. This ought to have prompted her to check her e-wallet to see if the 
claim was true.
Mrs H assumed that the individual she spoke to was connected with the 
business that operated her genuine cryptocurrency account, but the business 
he claimed to represent had a different name and he doesnt appear to have 
known about the existence of her account.
It wasnt particularly clear what the purpose was of these later payments that 
she made to named individuals. She was told that she needed to make them 
to establish a link between her cryptocurrency account and her account with 
the payment service provider. I dont think this explanation was clear enough 
that it could justify her being persuaded to transfer such large sums.
Finally, I think she ought to have been concerned at having to pay over 
£100,000 in order to access a sum of £50,000. While she was given 
reassurances that many of these overpayments would ultimately be refunded 
to her, I think she ought to have only proceeded with great caution.
However, the CRM Code also sets out standards that firms are required to meet. Where 
these are not met, the firm may still be liable to reimburse a victim in part, even where it 
has been able to establish that an exception to full reimbursement can be fairly applied 
(as I am satisfied Metro has established here). Those requirements include the provision 
of what the Code defines as an Effective Warning when a firm identifies an APP scam 
risk in relation to a payment.
The Code requires that warnings be both specific to the scam risk identified and to be 
impactful  to positively affect customer decision-making in a manner whereby the 
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. The code goes on to say this should 
include steps to ensure that the customer can reasonably understand the consequences 
of continuing with an irrevocable payment.
It's not clear what warning Mrs H would have seen when making these payments. Metro 
provided us with a list of all of the warnings that she might have seen depending on how she categorised the payment. However, none of those example warnings directly 
address the circumstances of the scam that had targeted Mrs H. Even if she had 
selected investment as the purpose of her payment, shed have seen a warning that 
was framed with the intention of protecting a customer from making a new investment. 
Mrs H believed that she was paying fees to gain access to the proceeds of an 
investment shed already made. I dont think the circumstances of this scam were so 
obscure that it wouldnt be possible for Metro to have tailored the warning more closely 
to those circumstances.
In summary, Im not satisfied that the warnings Metro gave were enough to show it 
complied with the requirements of the CRM Code in relation to these payments. As I 
have found Metro failed to meet its requirements under the CRM code in relation to 
payments 12-15, Metro should share liability for the resultant loss with Mrs H and should 
have reimbursed her 50% of those payments.
Recovery of funds
For completeness, Ive also looked into whether Metro did everything it shouldve done 
once Mrs H told it shed fallen victim to a scam.
The first payments were made to an account in Mrs Hs name and then transferred on, 
so it wouldnt have been possible for Metro to recover her funds from that account. 
However, I can see it did contact the receiving bank in connection with the final four 
payments promptly (within 90 minutes of the scam being reported). Unfortunately, the 
funds had already been transferred out of those accounts and so no recovery was 
possible.
I went on to explain that I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and direct Metro Bank 
to refund 50% of payments 12 to 15 and to add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum. 
Mrs H responded to say that she accepted the conclusions of my provisional decision. Metro 
Bank hasnt responded. Since no further arguments or evidence have been presented, I 
dont see any reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. Im 
therefore upholding Mrs Hs complaint in part.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
If Mrs H accepts my decision, Metro Bank PLC needs to:
- Refund 50% of payments 12 to 15.
- Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum, calculated to run from the date it 
declined her claim under the CRM until the date a settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman