DRN-3188576
The complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, wrongly entered a 
missed payment marker on his credit report for January 2021.
What happened
Mr Fs complaint stems from Mr Fs view that Madison has misapplied the FCA Guidances in 
relation to assisting customers who find themselves unable to pay or in difficulty paying due 
to coronavirus.
The agreement Mr F signed was for an 18 month term for a loan of £1,000 repayable at 
£72.68 a month and that agreement stipulated the repayments started on 1 December 2020 
and were to be taken by Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). The agreement clarified that 
if the scheduled payment date landed on a bank holiday it would be taken on the first 
working day after that date. Hence the reason that the January 2021 payment, to which this 
decision relates, was due to have been taken on 4 January 2021 as Friday 1 January 2021 
had been the New Year bank holiday.
The 4 January 2021 payment failed and I have seen records of that. Immediately, and in a 
pro-active manner, Mr F emailed Madison on 5 January 2021 explaining the reasons why 
and apologising. 
I state here that I am aware that Mr F had complained before on 8 January 2021 and that 
complaint related to a constant request to call Madisons operative when he suffered from a 
condition that made it not easy to use the telephone. And a second element to that 
8 January 2021 complaint was about dealing with the arrears. Those were the subject of a 
final response letter (FRL) dated 15 January 2021 and is not the complaint I am dealing with 
here. But the information Madison has provided about it has been valuable as background to 
this complaint. 
Mr Fs second complaint was articulated in his email dated 9 February 2021 to Madison after 
a repayment plan had been set up and actioned and after he had noticed that the 4 January 
2021 payment had been marked on his credit file as a missed payment. 
He received a swift final response (FRL) which was dated 18 February 2021 in which 
Madison said that following the first complaint, a repayment plan had been set up and hed 
been informed in the earlier FRL (January 2021 one) that  Please also be aware that during 
the time your account is in arrears, this may have a negative effect on your credit file. 
And Madison also said in that FRL - as Mr F had a repayment plan not a payment holiday 
then it was obliged to report a true reflection of the account operation to the credit file 
agency. 
Mr F was not content and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
18 February 2021 giving a detailed account in his complaint form. He explained that his 
fourteen day inability to work in December 2020 was Covid related and so his salary was 
much lower than usual. And he said:
As I clearly informed them my reason for missing this payment was Covid-19 related, 
one expected that as result of doing the right [sic] I wouldn't or shouldn't suffer. What 
118 118 actually did though is mark my credit file with a missed payment marker, 
which has affected my credit score. FCA advice on your website stipulates as 
guidance that Covid-19 related issues should not be reported as 'Missed payments'.
Mr F said that it had affected his credit score and he wanted financial compensation. 
Since then, Mr F in October 2021 has raised additional points of complaint against Madison. 
I make it clear that as these have not been  passed on to Madison to investigate, it is 
unaware and so will have to be dealt with as a separate complaint. Those additional 
complaint points are not dealt with in this decision.  
One of our adjudicators looked at the February 2021 complaint and wrote to both parties to 
give his view. He had reviewed the Payment Deferral Guidance by the FCA and thought that 
Mr F should have been given the option of a payment holiday or a repayment plan, Madison 
ought to have made him aware of the detrimental effects of each so Mr F could make an 
informed decision. 
Our adjudicator thought that if Madison had done this, it was likely that Mr F would have 
opted to take a payment holiday. So, our adjudicator did not think Madison had done the 
right thing by placing Mr F on a repayment plan. The proposed resolution was to amend the 
credit file by removing reference to a missed payment for January 2021. Our adjudicator did 
not award any financial compensation to Mr F. 
Mr F was pleased with our adjudicators view and said hed wait for the outcome after 
Madison had responded. Mr F made no comment about our adjudicator not awarding him 
compensation. This is dealt with later in my decision. 
Madison disagreed. It said that Mr F approached it about his arrears. Madison did not think a 
payment holiday would be appropriate as Mr F had told Madison that his future ability to pay 
was not likely to be compromised. It cited the FCA guidance on payment holidays 
(deferrals). 
Madison has said that Mr F had been content to accept the second option in the list of the 
ones Madison offered to him, and that option was - a payment plan where the arrears were 
split up over several months and repaid on top of the scheduled monthly repayments. So it 
did not think it had done anything wrong.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Various Guidances for regulated firms to assist customers affected in their ability to pay due 
to coronavirus were published by the FCA from April 2020 and the applicable Guide 
depended on the type of loan or credit taken. In Mr Fs case, he took an 18 month personal 
loan from November 2020. It would not fall into the definition of high cost short term credit 
(HCSTC) as the loan was for an 18 month term. And so, it does fit with the Guidances 
specifically for personal loans.
I have reviewed those. The first Guidance for these types of personal loans published in 
April 2020 was updated in July 2020 and expired on 31 October 2020. A new Guidance replaced it commencing from 25 November 2020 and it is this which appears to have been 
relevant at the time Mr F approached Madison in January 2021. The full title is Finalised 
guidance Personal loans and coronavirus: Payment Deferral Guidance published 
November 2020. Ill refer to it as the Payment Deferral Guidance  and the reference to 
paragraph numbers below are those in that Guidance. 
The earlier Guidance gave provision for the lender to give payment deferrals to customers. 
And the later Payment Deferral Guidance which I have indicated appears to apply to Mr Fs 
loan, was to extend the availability of payment deferrals to eligible customers (paragraphs 
1.6 and 1.7). And paragraph 1.8 states: 
Eligible customers seeking a first payment deferral, and those eligible customers who 
have previously accessed payment deferrals that totalled less than 6 months under 
this guidance, can seek a new payment deferral up to 31 March 2021.
A payment deferral is defined 
Payment deferral refers to a situation, on or after 9 April 2020, where a firm permits 
under this guidance (or in anticipation of the original guidance coming into force) the 
customer to make no payments or reduced payments under their regulated credit 
agreement for a specified period without considering them to be in arrears;  Full 
payment deferral means a payment deferral where the firm permits the customer to 
make no payments; and  Partial payment deferral means a payment deferral where 
the firm permits the customer to make reduced payments of any amount.
A different Guidance applies The FCAs guidance Consumer credit and Coronavirus: 
Tailored Support Guidance (the Tailored Support Guidance) where the customer is not 
receiving a payment deferral which may include where the customer is not, or no longer, 
eligible for a payment deferral. 
However, 1.14 of the Payment Deferral Guidance makes it clear that 
Where a customer indicates that they may be experiencing, or they reasonably 
expect to experience, payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus, a firm should offer any support the customer is eligible for under this 
guidance before providing support under the Tailored Support Guidance.
So, I am satisfied that this Payment Deferral Guidance published in November 2020 was the 
first one Madison should have considered and applied to Mr Fs situation before offering 
anything else. And I dont think it did that.  
I consider the Payment deferral Guidance to have been applicable to Mr Fs situation and 
that he was eligible for it, having not received such a deferral before, and his loan with 
Madison had commenced in November 2020. Paragraph 1.17 seems entirely on point with 
Mr Fs circumstances at the time he approached them in January 2021. 
Paragraph 3.3 of the Payment Deferral Guidance lists the options which the lender can do 
where the payment deferral sought by the customer is not in the customers interest and 
these were:
give a payment deferral of an amount different to what the customer indicated they 
can afford;  give a payment deferral of less than 3 monthly payments (or the 
maximum permitted); or  treat the customer in accordance with the Tailored Support 
Guidance.Looking at Mr Fs circumstances, he approached Madison by email on the first available 
working day following the failed payment after the Christmas and New Year holidays in 
January 2021, having experienced a 14 day isolation period due to a coronavirus contact. 
Mr F said he had not earned any money during that time and was not able to afford the 
4 January 2021 instalment. Mr F included in that email 
With this in mind I am hopeful that you will be understanding of my circumstances 
and together we come up with a solution in regards to this missed payment.
It seems that Mr F did not send to Madison a budget document for it to assess Mr Fs 
financial situation which likely restricted what Madison could be satisfied was appropriate to 
offer Mr F. And I have seen a note relating to Mr Fs account dated 12 January 2021 which 
said: 
10/01/2021 Email out advising of options
11/01/2021 Email in confirming wants repayment plan.
12/01/2021 Email out asking to complete I&E explained have duty of care
12/01/2021 Email in does not want to do I&E  suggested 1m payment freeze
12/01/2021 Email in does not want to do I&E  suggested 1m payment freeze or split 
over 4m.
I requested copies of those emails to provide me background information and I note that the 
final email on 12 January 2021 was from Mr F and it included the two routes he had in mind: 
I'm not looking to change my repayments, nothing financially has changed long term 
in regards to my income. I'm just asking for a payment freeze for the one month 
I missed, to restart payments (beginning of Feb) or as your own suggestion divide the 
missed payment over 4 months alongside my normal payments.
Madison has told us that it did not think a payment holiday would be appropriate as Mr F had 
told Madison that his future ability to pay was not likely to be compromised. And I have seen 
that Mr F has indicated that he was back at work and he did not feel that his future financial 
situation as a concern. And so, in that respect I understand why Madison offered what it did. 
Hence the reason I have decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint in part. And I explain here. 
I think that a combination of what Mr F was suggesting  a payment freeze plus the catch-
up instalment idea, was the best option. And I think Madison missed this. 
The arrangement agreed to was for Mr F to pay more than the usual instalment sums of 
£72.89 and instead pay £90.85 a month for four months to catch -up. But here the idea of 
there being any payment deferral  even for the 4 January 2021 failed payment  does not 
appear to have been contemplated. 
The FRL listed the four instalments as follows: 
Repayment date  Amount
01/02/2021  £90.85
01/03/2021  £90.85
01/04/2021  £90.85
04/05/2021  £90.85
In relation to Mr Fs credit file, this sentence (below) was included in the FRL and also in the 
confirmation of payment arrangement email dated 19 January 2021 : Please also be aware 
that during the time your account is in arrears, this may have a negative effect on your credit file. And there is no mention of what may be done with the failed payment that had just 
passed. 
The FRL resolution was accepted by Mr F and that FRL related to the first complaint. And 
I have noted that the FRL had two resolutions in it  one was compensation for an issue 
relating to the telephone requests and the other was for the arrears situation. And so, 
accepting the FRL meant Mr F accepted both. 
Mr F said: 
Secondly I accept your repayment proposal as outlined below in your email. I can 
confirm this is acceptable and affordable to me. Please reply to this email for 
confirmation you have put both the above into place.
And I think this dealt with the arrears going forward but did not consider the January 2021 
failed payment issue. 
Paragraph 5.12 of the Payment Deferral Guidance says
The payment deferrals described here should be regarded as being offered in 
exceptional circumstances outside of the customers control. In accordance with the 
relevant Coronavirus Data Reporting Guidance published by the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) in consultation with SCOR, firms should not report a worsening 
status on the customers credit file during any payment deferral period.
Ive considered all of this and thought about the FCA Guidelines carefully, and I have noted 
that the chronology of events and the New Year 2020/21 bank holidays. I dont think Mr F 
would have had an opportunity to speak to Madison much before  if at all before  the failed 
payment which was on 4 January 2021. 
I note Mr Fs pro-active email in which he approached Madison to find a solution for the 
missed payment. And I am aware that the term missed payment is used in virtually all the 
correspondence and so it was treated as such. But I dont think it had to be treated as such. 
I think that the situation in December 2020 and January 2021 was unique and Covid related 
and so I think that the Payment Deferral Guidance published November 2020 was relevant 
to Mr Fs situation and ought to have been applied. 
The repayment schedule was to deal with the arrears, set out in the FRL dated 
January 2021 and Mr F accepted it. But I think that it would have been fair and reasonable 
and applicable to treat Mr Fs failed payment in January 2021 as the equivalent of a deferred 
payment, or a payment holiday, and so it ought not to have been entered onto his credit file 
in an adverse way in accordance with the Payment Deferral Guidance on these types of 
Covid related deferrals. 
And I appreciate that a deferred payment may not be usually applied retrospectively as Mr F 
contacted Madison on 5 January 2021 after the failed payment, but in these particular 
circumstances relating to the December 2020 Covid isolation plus the Christmas and New 
Year holiday period then I do not think it was likely Mr F was easily able to contact Madison 
before 4 January 2021. 
And even if I am wrong on this, which I do not think I am, I think it would have been the fair 
and reasonable thing to have done to have not reported this to his credit file as a missed 
payment. And one of the reasons I come to this view is that in the email dated 10 January 
2021 from Madison to Mr F it said this: This option is advisable instead of leaving your account in arrears and no 
arrangements at all, because this may have a negative impact on your credit file, 
which we are trying to avoid,
And reading the email carefully I think that Madisons reference to This option was not 
directed at one particular choice (listed immediately above in that email) but was indicating 
to Mr F that by making arrangements to cover the arrears at that time and not delaying 
meant that a negative credit file impact would be avoided. So, Mr F chose one of the options 
to manage the arrears and the FRL following finalised the arrangements for four larger 
payments to catch-up after which the repayments would revert to normal. 
But I think that it was easy to interpret the 10 January 2021 email from Madison to mean that 
the January 2021 failed payment would not necessarily be reported in an adverse way on his 
credit file. I just dont think it was clear enough as to what Madison was going to do about the 
failed payment. 
This, plus the fact that as I have outlined above I think that it was open to Madison to apply 
the Covid Payment Deferral Guidance and treat it as a payment holiday would have been 
the fair and reasonable thing to do. Especially as Mr F was the party who prompted and 
promoted the start of the conversation to iron out the issue surrounding the failed payment. 
I note from the screenshots of the 2021 credit file for Mr F that the four instalments where 
Mr F overpaid to catch up with his arrears were not subject to any adverse markers on his 
credit file and I think that was the right thing for Madison to have done. And I would not 
expect that to alter going forward.
Compensation element  
Turning to the impact on Mr Fs credit file, as Mr F did not appear to query the lack of 
compensation element in our adjudicators view in October 2021, then I can treat that part of 
Mr Fs complaint for the January 2021 credit file issue as resolved. But for completeness 
I have dealt with the issue of compensation here. 
Mr F has sent us two screenshots recently for January and February 2021 and it does look 
to me as though his credit file score had reduced. However, I also note that
- both screenshots say that his score was stable 
- I have not received a full record of Mr Fs credit file and so I cannot be sure that this 
missed payment marker did affect the credit score as the score may have been 
affected by other entries as well
- and I have no evidence to support the fact that Mr Fs desire for financial 
compensation is justified or warranted as I have no evidence of any loss that the 
reduced score had on his finances at the time
So, I do think Mr Fs credit score should be corrected to remove the adverse January 2021 
entry but I think that is a fair and reasonable resolution for both parties.
And as I have explained in the what happened part of this decision, any additional adverse 
credit file entries are not addressed in this decision as they are not part of this complaint.
Putting things right
Ive arrived at the same outcome as that of our adjudicator but I have given more details as to why I have arrived at that. 
Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, should amend Mr Fs credit file to 
remove the January 2021 adverse entry.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and Madison CF UK Limited, 
trading as 118 118 Money, should do as I have said in the putting things right part of the 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman