DRN-2760672
The complaint
Miss B has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject a claim she made 
for storm damage to her roof under her home insurance policy. Miss B also complained 
about the poor service she received from AXA. 
What happened
In October 2018 Miss B made a claim to her insurer, AXA for damage to her roof which she 
said was caused by a recent storm. AXA instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect Miss Bs 
roof and AXA decided to reject the claim. It said the storm had highlighted pre-existing 
damage caused by wear and tear, so their policy didnt provide cover for this. 
At the time Miss B accepted AXAs decision and made arrangements for her roof to be 
repaired. She said the costs came to over £7,000 and she took out a loan to pay for it. 
In 2020 AXA wrote to Miss B. It said it had carried out an audit and found that it might not 
have dealt with her dissatisfaction or handled her feedback correctly. So it said it would 
investigate further if Miss B contacted it. 
Miss B raised a complaint with AXA and in August 2020 AXA upheld it. When Miss B made 
her claim in October 2018, it said it incorrectly told her she wasnt covered for internal 
damage as she didnt have accidental damage cover. However, Miss B did have accidental 
damage cover. 
AXA said it would also cover a proportion of the roof that was damaged by the storm. It 
asked Miss B to submit evidence of the roof repairs and costs. It paid Miss B £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Miss B made contact with AXA in September 2020 and provided a copy of a note from the 
roof builder who carried out the repairs. She chased AXA several times for an update and 
was promised replies which didnt happen. 
In January 2021 the LA on behalf of AXA told Miss B that the original decision was correct 
and the damage to Miss Bs roof was caused by wear and tear. So Miss B was left in the 
same position she was in when AXA rejected her claim for roof repairs in October 2018. 
Ms B made a new complaint about AXAs decision and the poor service shed received when 
dealing with AXA between August 2020 and January 2021. 
In January 2021 AXA replied to Miss Bs complaint. It said it had reviewed the photos of Miss 
Bs roof and found there was evidence of long standing deterioration. It said that the costs of 
the roof repairs reflected the entire roof reaching the end of its natural life and requiring 
renewal. So AXA said its decision to decline Miss Bs claim was correct. 
It upheld Miss Bs complaint about the poor service she received. AXA apologised to Miss B 
and paid her £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience, bringing the total 
compensation paid to £650.
Miss B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaints. 
Our investigator asked AXA to clarify what it told Miss B in August 2020: that it would cover a 
proportion of the roof repair costs that was damaged by storm. 
AXA told us this was an error on their part and apologised. It said it had since addressed the 
issue of the claim in its reply in January 2021 and paid Miss B suitable compensation for its 
poor service. 
Our investigator explained his findings to Miss B. He considered the information provided by 
AXAs LA and Miss Bs roofing contractor. He thought on balance the information provided 
by the LA was more persuasive. So he thought AXAs decision to reject the claim for 
external damage for wear and tear was reasonable. 
The investigator thought the compensation AXA had paid for its poor service was enough to 
put things right. So he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss B didnt agree. She hasnt provided any new comments, so the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA considered Miss Bs claim under the terms of the policy which said it would cover 
damage caused by storm, but not where the main cause of damage was due to wear and 
tear. AXA doesnt dispute that storm conditions occurred as defined under their policy. 
Miss Bs roofing contractors wrote that recent storms had caused the ridge tiles to dislodge, 
which in turn had broken slates and allowed the wind to take the slates from the roof and 
also damaging the roof felt. And; It is noticeable that there is several slates which have 
been moved out of position. Having been told the house was only renovated 4-5 years ago 
and with the recent high winds we have had I can only put this down to storm damage.
However, both roofing contractors said they were unable to visually inspect the roof. 
The LA was able to take clear photos of the roof using an extension device. They reported 
that Miss Bs roof showed slates had slipped due to fixings being corroded. In addition the 
LA wrote:
Lead strap repairs were noted which indicates a degree of nail fatigue. Slipped and 
displaced slates were noted. Mortar erosion was noted to the ridge tiles. Cracks were 
noted to the mortar filler at the junction with the coping stones to the rear slope verge 
courses.
Based on all of the information available, I think AXAs decision to decline the claim in 
October 2018 was correct as I think the LAs findings were supported by the photos showing 
the issues they identified.
However, I think AXAs communication with Miss B was extremely poor. I think it failed to 
manage Miss Bs expectations when it wrote to her in August 2020. AXA said:Following a further review, we confirmed that you did have accidental damage, so 
we can consider the internal damage. We also agreed that a portion of the roof was 
damaged by storm, and we can also consider this damage as well.
You are unhappy with the fact that we initially declined your claim. You are also 
unhappy that the final settlement was insufficient to cover the full claim, as you paid 
£7000 to rectify the damage.
Regarding the amount you paid to rectify the damage, if you are able to provide the 
invoices for the works carried out, we can review them to determine if we are able to 
increase the settlement.
I can understand why this prompted Miss B to contact AXA and provide details from the 
roofing contractors in order to reconsider her claim. AXA led Miss B to believe it would 
consider her external damage claim for part of the roof repairs, as it agreed a portion of the 
roof was damaged by storm.
I appreciate that AXA has paid a total of £650 compensation to Miss B for its poor 
communication with her. Ive also considered that AXA didnt appear to specifically take this 
error into account when it decided the sums of £200 and £450 respectively in response to 
Miss Bs complaints. 
While I agree that AXA has failed to manage Miss Bs expectations, I think the compensation 
it has paid for the distress and inconvenience it caused is fair overall and in line with what we 
would award in similar circumstances. So I think AXA has done enough to put things right for 
its failings.
I understand Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But I think AXA has done enough 
to resolve her complaints. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman