DRN-2257544
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Canada Square Operations Limited has asked him to sign a form in 
order to receive compensation for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The 
form is a legal waiver to confirm Mr C has been discharged from a previous individual 
voluntary arrangement (IVA) and that he is legally entitled to the refund.
Mr C does not want to sign the form as he says he has never been in an IVA.
What happened
Canada Square made Mr C an offer of compensation for a mis-sold PPI sold with a credit 
card.
In order to receive the refund, Canada Square asked Mr C to sign a waiver confirming he 
had been discharged from a previous IVA.
Mr C refused to sign the form as he says he has never been party to an IVA.
An adjudicator from this service said Mr C would have to sign the form in order to receive the 
compensation.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C maintains that he has never been party to an IVA.
Canada Square says it contacted the insolvency service which confirmed it held a record of 
an IVA matching Mr Cs details. Unfortunately Canada Square has been unable to establish 
contact with the actual insolvency practitioner  that dealt with the IVA.
The waiver Canada Square has asked Mr C to sign contains two statements as follows:
1: I Have been discharged from my Individual Voluntary Agreement(IVA an am therefor the 
person legally entitled to the redress.
2: If my claim for the redress is false of if my IVA has not been fulfilled and a claim for this 
redress is made by the Insolvency Practitioner, I am liable to pay any costs, claims or any 
actions arising from the redress being paid.
If Canada Square pays the compensation directly to Mr C and it later transpires that Mr C 
was party to an IVA then Canada Square could be liable for costs if the insolvency 
practitioner declares an interest. It is for this reason that Canada Square requires Mr C to 
sign the waiver.
On the other hand I can understand why Mr C would be reluctant to sign the waiver as it 
could be interpreted as an acceptance that he was party to an IVA. And Mr C has told us he 
never has been.
Ive thought carefully about this.
In my view it is fair for Canada Square to ask Mr C to sign the form in order to receive the 
compensation. I say this as Canada Square has reason to think Mr C may have been party 
to an IVA and wants to protect itself from any further potential costs.
But I also note that Canada Square has not been able to provide this service with any 
documentary evidence confirming Mr Cs IVA. So I am unable to make a finding that he was 
party to an IVA.
So I also think it is fair that before signing the waiver, Mr C should be able to annotate the 
form with a third bullet point to say he that does not accept he has been party to any IVA.
And I think Canada Square should then accept the waiver and make payment to Mr C.
I think that represents  a fair compromise as Canada Square will have a signed waiver in 
case it later transpires Mr C did have an IVA which wasnt fulfilled, and Mr C can note on the 
waiver that he doesnt accept he had an IVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that it is fair for Canada Square Operations Limited to require Mr C to 
sign the waiver in order to receive the compensation.
But if Mr C chooses to add a third bullet point to the waiver explaining that he does not 
accept he has been party to an IVA  then Canada Square Operations Limited should accept 
the signed waiver with the added note and make payment to Mr C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman