DRN-3233415
The complaint
Mr V complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) made errors in dealing with
his late wifes estate.
What happened
Mrs V sadly died in April 2020. A third party registered her death with Nationwide in May 
2020. Nationwide sent the third-party details of the bank accounts of the late Mrs V and Mr 
V. In June 2021, Mr V (Mrs Vs husband) produced the Grant of Probate dated 11 May 2021 
- which named him as executor (jointly with his son).
Mr V complained. Mr V said that he was the personal representative and executor of the 
estate, not the third party. The third party was a relative who neither he, not his late wife, had 
anything to do with. Nationwide had sent to the third-party details of the bank accounts in 
the name of the late Mrs V, and accounts in the joint names of Mr V and his late wife.
Nationwide shouldnt have done this  this was a data breach. To sort this out, hed had to 
get a solicitor to write to Nationwide  which had taken time and hed had to pay their costs. 
And at a time when he was already grieving, the whole episode had caused him a lot of 
stress and anxiety. Mr V wants a proper apology, a higher amount of compensation, and a 
review of Nationwides processes.
Nationwide admitted that theyd made an error. This was due to a member of staff in the 
branch not following its processes. As a result, theyd wrongly allowed the third party to be 
named as the estates personal representative. This had led to the disclosure of details of 
the late Mrs Vs sole and joint accounts. They offered compensation of £250 which Mr V 
didnt accept.
Mr V brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Nationwide admitted theyd 
made errors. While Mr V had personally suffered a lot of distress and anxiety, there hadnt 
been any financial loss as a result. He felt that Nationwides offer of compensation was 
enough for what happened.
Mr V didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
 I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Weve looked at the complaint brought by the estate of Mrs V  and determined that while 
Nationwide were at fault, the impact of what happened fell upon Mr V personally, and this 
review of his complaint deals with that.
I can see that Nationwide admitted that their member of staff at the branch made an error 
in registering the third party as the personal representative of Mrs Vs estate. It was not 
down to flawed processes  but that someone didnt follow them. The impact of this on Mr 
V was clearly significant. At a time when he was grieving from the loss of his wife, he found 
out that the details of his wifes account, and four of their joint accounts  had been sent to 
the third party. I can see that this included balances, account numbers and interest rates. 
He contacted Nationwide through his son  and then received a letter from Nationwide in 
May 2020 which said we are only able to correspond with one person regarding (Mrs Vs) 
accounts so we would be unable to send any further information to yourself. To sort 
things out he then had to contact and brief a firm of solicitors to write to Nationwide to 
confirm he was to be the personal representative, and not the third party. This was part of 
Nationwides processes, and they later refunded Mr V with the costs of the solicitors.
Ive also looked at Nationwides letter to Mr V dated 17 June 2020  following what 
happened. It offered compensation of £250 but didnt offer an apology  and it was very 
much a processes letter in tone. It said that theyd followed their processes in asking for a 
solicitors letter  but didnt offer to pay the costs of that. Only later  when Mr V challenged 
this letter, did Nationwide say sorry and offer to pay the solicitors costs. I think this was 
unfortunate  Nationwide couldve dealt with the situation then, but sadly didnt, and 
couldve done better. I accept that they later apologised and paid the solicitors fees  but 
for a grieving and upset Mr V, I can see how badly he must have been affected. Equally, I 
note that Mr V didnt suffer any financial loss.
In the context of Mr Vs complaint  that he was suffering from the bereavement of his wife 
 I can see how upsetting this sequence of events must have been for him. And so, having 
regard to this, I think Nationwide should pay a higher amount of compensation  of £400,
rather than the £250 theyve offered.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Nationwide disagreed that theyd not offered to pay the solicitors costs; rather, theyd asked 
Mr V for evidence of those to ensure they were reasonable. But they accepted my 
recommendation to pay the increased compensation of £400. Mr V broadly agreed and 
made the point that the staff error doesnt necessarily represent the true extent of what 
happened  given the seriousness of the disclosure of his account information. And he didnt 
say he want more compensation, but an appropriate amount for what happened.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to the provisional decision.  While I can see where Nationwide 
are coming from, I remain of the view that their final response didnt offer to pay solicitors 
costs, but said if youve incurred any costs as a resultI would be happy to review this. I 
maintain that if theyd been clear and positive that they would meet the costs, it wouldve 
helped resolve Mr Vs complaint.
On Mr Vs points  Nationwide were clear with us that it was staff error that caused the 
disclosure and no more, and I accept that. On the matter of compensation, Ive thought 
about what Mr V has said and feel that the amount of £400 is right.
And so  for these reasons, Im not departing from my provisional decision in issuing this 
final decision.
(continued)
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society must:
Pay Mr V compensation for distress and inconvenience of £400 (in replacement of
their offer of £250)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman