DRN-4349613
The complaint
Mrs T complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused flood damage to her property by 
failing to attend a repair appointment under her Home Emergency Policy or, failing to repair 
a previous leak properly. She thinks Aviva should repair her plumbing system and the 
damage the leak has caused to her home. 
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs T has a home emergency policy with Aviva, covering her plumbing and electrics. In 
October 2022, she claimed for two repairs due to a leak from her attic. In December 2022 
Mrs T called Aviva again as she had problems with her hot water and toilet. During the call, 
she said she didnt think her pipes had frozen as the cold water was running. Aviva agreed 
to send an engineer the following day but said they couldnt help if the pipes were frozen.
Unfortunately, as the engineer was unable to make the appointment, it was rescheduled. 
There is some disagreement between the parties about whether Aviva did this once or twice 
but both parties accept Mrs T also moved one appointment from 23 to 28 December 2022.
On 28 December 2022, an engineer visited the property. Mrs T says, following some repairs, 
the engineer turned the water on and it flooded through her ceiling. She says it caused 
damage to her ceiling, flooring, electrics and furniture. The engineers notes from the 
appointment say they repaired burst pipes and the hot water cylinder had also burst.
Mrs T raised a complaint with Aviva the same day. She said the damage to her property 
happened because Aviva didnt do the repair earlier. She says, if the first appointment went 
ahead, the problem wouldve been repaired and she wouldnt have needed to turn the hot 
water off which ultimately caused her pipes to freeze over. Alternatively, she thought the 
problem may have stemmed from the issue in October 2022. 
Mrs Ts explained shes in poor health and finds it difficult to get around. She said when 
appointments were made, she found it difficult to travel to the property from where she 
usually lives and had to stay with friends as there was no heating. When the flood happened, 
she was left to clean up the water herself which she found very difficult.
Aviva responded to Mrs Ts complaint in February 2023. It offered her £100 for cancelling 
the first appointment. But it didnt agree the problem was linked to the repair in 
October 2022. It also said if the engineer had attended earlier, they wouldnt have been able 
to do anything to stop the damage as, frozen pipes and hot water cylinders arent covered.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mrs T asked us to look into things. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. As Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Aviva gave me more information including call recordings from when Mrs T first reported the 
incident, when the appointments were rescheduled and from after the engineer attended the 
property. It also provided a recent statement from the engineer which says the water had 
already flooded through the ceiling before they attended on 28 December 2022.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2023. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part. In summary, I thought:
It was unlikely the problems in December 2022 and October 2022 were connected. 
It wasnt clear, if the original repair appointment had gone ahead, it wouldve prevented 
the escape of water as the issues may have been unconnected or not covered anyway. 
The evidence didnt show Aviva cancelled more than one appointment or that it was 
solely responsible for the delay. And the pipes couldve frozen after Mrs T cancelled. 
It was likely the engineer caused the leak by not taking reasonable precautions. 
Mrs Ts testimony was consistent about what happened and she gave detailed 
information about the condition of her property before and after the visit during her calls.
If water had flooded through before the engineer visited, Mrs T wouldve told Aviva. 
If the engineer saw water had flooded through as they said in their statement, they 
wouldve included that in their notes at the time, but they didnt. And Aviva only said the 
flood happened before the visit when I asked about the precautions the engineer took.
I hadnt seen any other evidence which supported Avivas view that the water had come 
through the ceiling before the engineer visited.
Considering Aviva was aware Mrs T likely had frozen, damaged pipes, I thought the 
engineer shouldve taken better precautions not to cause further damage.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a Final Decision. Mrs T 
agreed with what I said. But she reiterated that Aviva cancelled more than one appointment 
and she said she didnt have evidence of the damaged furniture but her insurer had photos. 
Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision. It said in summary:
Mrs Ts ceiling was damaged in October 2022 and an escape of water would follow the 
same path. So it questioned whether we have evidence this was repaired. 
Her pipes mightve already frozen when she first called Aviva even if she had cold water. 
Its most likely the damage was caused between 23 and 28 December 2022, when Mrs T 
cancelled the appointment as that was enough time for the pipes to freeze and thaw. 
The engineer wouldve just carried out a controlled test  turning the water on briefly. So 
the amount of water that couldve escaped at that point wouldnt have caused the flood. 
The engineers notes said the pipework and cylinder had burst. And their statement said 
the cold-water tank had emptied. So, its clear the flood happened before they arrived. 
If the flood had happened already, thered be no more water left to escape when the 
engineer was there. Mrs T turning the water off wouldnt have prevented the pipes from freezing. 
The repair completed in October 2022 is unconnected to this complaint. 
It hadnt seen any evidence from Mrs T supporting her version of events. 
Mrs T has paid more than one excess payment for different repairs and, under the terms 
and conditions of the policy, she is due to pay both. 
Following Avivas response, I spoke to Mrs T about its comment on the excess payments. 
And she accepted the second excess was payable so I havent looked into this further.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything both sides have said in response to my provisional decision. 
And overall, I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Avivas questioned whether we have evidence the damage to Mrs Ts ceiling wasnt pre-
existing from October 2022. But I dont agree thats relevant. Theres no disagreement that 
there was a large escape of water through Mrs Ts ceiling in December 2022. And Im 
satisfied this wouldve caused significant damage to it. The matter in dispute is whether 
Avivas engineer caused the escape of water.
I agree with Aviva that Mrs Ts pipework couldve frozen before the engineer attended  and 
in my provisional decision, Ive referred to this being likely. But I dont think it makes a 
difference in this case. I say this because, whilst I accept Mrs Ts pipes may have frozen and 
become damaged before the engineer attended, I havent seen evidence that the water had 
already flooded through too. And I think the existing damage to the pipes shouldve 
prompted the engineer to take extra care when carrying out the repairs. 
I appreciate Avivas indicated the flood damage most likely happened between 
23 and 28 December 2022, after Mrs T cancelled the appointment. But I dont think theres 
any evidence to support what its said here. Mrs T regularly called Aviva with updates on the 
condition of her property. Theres nothing she said in any calls before the engineer visited 
suggesting the leak of water had already happened  and I think she would have said if it 
had (as she did in October 2022) because she wanted Aviva to visit promptly. Instead, she 
called Aviva straight after the visit to say the leak had happened while they were there. 
Aviva says the engineer wouldve briefly turned on the water to carry out a test  so it wasnt 
possible for the amount of water described by Mrs T to leak through. But its not given me 
any evidence to support this or to show Mrs Ts recollections of the event are inaccurate. 
The engineers notes say the pipework and cylinder had burst by the time they visited. But 
Avivas told me the cylinder was in the living room. So Im not persuaded this is what caused 
the flood through the ceiling as its suggested. Its also highlighted the engineers statement 
says the cold-water tank was empty  so presumably it thinks this is what flooded through 
the ceiling. But the statement was written very recently, only after I questioned what safety 
measures the engineer took. And neither this, nor the flood was mentioned in their notes 
from the time. So overall, Im not persuaded by what Avivas said.I understand Aviva feels Mrs T hasnt provided evidence to prove the damage was caused 
by the engineer. But Ive considered everything in this case, including her testimony and the 
information she gave Aviva throughout the claims process. And I think what shes said has 
been consistent and persuasive. So whilst I accept there may have been a problem with the 
plumbing, Im satisfied its more likely the flood through the ceiling was caused by the 
engineer not taking sufficient care when carrying out the repairs. And I think they should 
have been more careful during the visit  knowing there were likely frozen, damaged pipes.
Mrs T has said she doesnt have any evidence of her damaged furniture because it was 
removed by the council after the flood. But she mentioned both Aviva and her home insurer 
attended the property to review the damage. She also said her home insurer took photos of 
the damage. So I suggest she contacts them for copies of the photos as I think its for her to 
prove what furniture was damaged and needs repairing or replacing.
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think Aviva should:
Pay Mrs T a further £750 on top of the £100 its already offered her as compensation for 
the trouble and upset its caused her. This should also make up for the increased 
premiums she will likely have to pay on her home insurance as a result of her claim.
Reimburse Mrs T for any excess she paid on her home insurance policy for repair work 
needed as a direct result of the water flooding through her ceiling.
Repair any outstanding damage caused by the leak to Mrs Ts ceiling, electrics, floors 
and furniture (where repairing the furniture is possible), that hasnt already been carried 
out under Mrs Ts home insurance policy. Alternatively, upon agreement from Mrs T, it 
should cover the cost of these repairs upon receipt of an itemised quote from Mrs T 
showing the work required or itemised receipts showing the repairs already carried out.
Pay the reasonable costs of replacing any furniture which cant be reasonably repaired 
once Mrs T has provided evidence of the damaged furniture and itemised receipts 
showing what shes paid for replacements of a similar standard and quality.
Add 8% simple interest from the date Mrs T has made any of the above payments until 
the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take tax from this 
interest. Aviva must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman