DRN-3165023
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 with a 
loan. Mrs and Mr W say Northern Bank Limited, trading at the time as Danske Bank, mis-
sold the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to NBL.
What happened
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Mrs and Mr Ws representative disagreed. However, they didnt provide any 
more information and repeated the same reasons for the policy being mis-sold. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
Ive got no doubt Mrs and Mr W themselves genuinely feel now that this policy was mis-sold 
to them. However, I note a main thrust of their complaint relates to them being made to feel 
they had no choice but to take out PPI with their borrowing  so Ive looked very carefully at 
this issue to begin with.
Weve been sent the original documentation they both signed and from what we know about 
these types of sale, I think its likely that the loan itself was discussed first and the PPI, as an 
add-on product, was offered to them with the lending. I can see, for example, that Mrs and 
Mr W were presented with a yes / no choice about the PPI at the point of agreeing to the 
loan. And I think it was obvious enough at this point that this was a financial product they 
didnt need to accept. They ticked the yes box and left the no box blank. They also both 
signed their names directly next to where this choice was made. Based on that, I think there 
is clear evidence that NBL correctly obtained their consent.
NBL says this was an advised sale, so its responsibility included a duty to ensure the PPI 
was suitable for them. Mrs and Mr W say it wasnt suitable, but Im afraid I think it was.
This is because I see only Mr W was insured under the PPI and I think this level of cover 
was chosen with regard to their earnings. He was eligible for the cover and I dont think hed 
have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. 
His representatives told us he had some sickness protection already through his job, 
implying he didnt need any PPI. They also referred to what I consider to apparently 
substantial savings, and potentially some redundancy cover with his job. 
However, Im afraid the sick pay doesnt necessarily mean he and Mrs W didnt have a use 
for the policy. This was a substantial loan and the PPI could have paid out a monthly benefit 
in the event of Mr W being unable to work through illness, or losing his job completely. I was 
sent no evidence of the 12 months worth of savings we were told they had and I note they 
were embarking on an £11,375 loan at the time. So I am not persuaded by the information 
provided by the representative. Essentially, this was a PPI policy that could have paid out 
over £300 per month for up to a year if needed. With regards to redundancy, again the policy 
was wider than this and having both PPI and other types of protection dont necessarily 
conflict.
For these reasons, I think the policy was suitable and recommending it to them wasnt 
wrong.  
Its obviously possible that NBL could have done things differently or provided more 
information than it did. But I dont think this would have changed what happened. In my view, 
the policy covered what Mrs and Mr W broadly expected it to cover. We were told of no 
issues, such as his health, that meant he was excluded under certain parts of the policy 
rules and everything Ive seen tends to show Mr W could have made a successful claim if 
needed. Ive seen no evidence of claims about mental health or bad backs being excluded, 
as alleged by the representative and in any event, was presented with no evidence that 
these things were pertinent to this particular sale.
Finally, Ive considered some other issues. Mrs and Mr Ws representative raised a number 
of what I consider to be general complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NBL should 
have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
However, the representative has failed to set out how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular 
case, but these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr W, but I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint or make any award in their favour. National Bank 
Limited doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman