DRN-1660400
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds valuation of her car after it was written off. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said after looking at the 
specifications of Miss Cs vehicle he was satisfied the offer from UKI (£2,445) was fair and in 
line with the trade guides used by this service. 
Miss C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said UKI 
initially offered her £2,140 and said it wouldnt offer more before offering £2,445 after she 
provided some evidence and spent time discussing the claim. She feels that to buy a similar 
car to hers, UKI shouldve offered around £4,000 based upon the advertised prices she 
found. And if it had offered between £3,000 to £3,500, she wouldve accepted this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
I appreciate Miss Cs concern that she hasnt been able to find a replacement car of equal 
value with the settlement UKI have offered. Miss Cs policy says UKI will settle the claim by 
paying her the market value of her car at the time of the loss. But that sum wont necessarily 
be the same amount that the car was purchased for or the cost of replacing it. This service 
believes its fair for industry guides to be used to provide a valuation based upon the 
condition of her car at the time of the loss. 
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use as theyre based on likely 
selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the prices of the 
same make and model of cars across the country. But I believe the valuation offered by UKI 
sufficiently considers Miss Cs cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an insurers 
valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various guides we use. And 
because UKIs offer of £2,445 is within these ranges Im satisfied its made a fair offer here. 
Miss C says it was unfair UKI initially only offered £2,140 and it was only after she sent it 
further evidence of similar cars that she found for sale, the valuation was increased to 
£2,445. So, although I can understand why it wouldve been frustrating to receive the lower 
offer, I note the first offer UKI made was within the trade guides Ive reviewed. So, I dont 
believe UKI treated her unfairly.  
So, Im not going to ask UKI to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman