DRN-1593276
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limited (trading as Lifestyle Services 
Group) handled a claim he made under his mobile phone insurance policy. Mr G is 
represented by his wife, Mrs G, but to keep things simple Ill refer only to Mr G.
What happened
Mr G had mobile phone insurance with Lifestyle Services Group (LSG). On 18 May 2019 
he made a claim for Mrs Gs phone, as it was included in the policy and the screen was 
damaged. LSG accepted the claim and received the damaged phone from Mr G on 29 May 
2019. Mr G says LSG said it would repair or replace the phone in one to three days.
Mr G called LSG for an update on 3 June 2019 and LSG said it would replace the phone, as 
it wasnt repairable. Mr G called LSG for an update on 5 June 2019, and it said it had tried 
calling him the day before to check the phones memory size. Mr G confirmed the memory 
size and LSG sent out the replacement phone, which Mr G received on 6 June 2019.
But the replacement phone was locked to a network. Mr G says he unsuccessfully called 
various mobile phone networks to try getting it unlocked but had to call LSG on 6 June 2019. 
It ordered a second replacement phone which Mr G received on 11 June 2019, though it was 
a different colour to the phone hed claimed for and he noted the delivery confirmation email 
showed the second replacement phone had only been ordered on 10 June 2019.
Mr G complained to LSG, as he thought its errors resulted in delays to his claim being 
settled. Because, when LSG called him to check the memory size, it called him on the 
number of the phone it had for repair so he couldnt answer. And it already had the memory 
size, as Mr G had provided this at LSGs request when he registered the phone at the start 
of the policy. And because the first replacement phone was incorrectly locked to a network 
and LSG only ordered the second replacement phone on 10 June 2019. Mr G was also 
unhappy the second replacement phone was a different colour to the phone he claimed for.
LSG gave Mr G its final response on 11 June 2019. It said it hadnt done anything wrong in 
sending a different colour replacement phone, as the policy terms and conditions entitled it 
to do that. But it agreed the first replacement phone had been incorrectly locked and this had 
caused a delay. It apologised and offered Mr G £50 compensation for this.
Mr G was still unhappy so he asked our service to look into LSGs handling of his claim. He 
explained Mrs G was without a phone for longer than necessary, causing distress and 
inconvenience as their daughter couldnt contact her in an emergency and Mrs G couldnt 
access her messages. Mr G also said LSG was rude and abrupt in calls with Mrs G.
After looking into things, our investigator said LSG hadnt made an error by sending a 
different colour replacement phone and that LSGs calls with Mrs G would need to be looked 
at by LSG before our service considered them. But he thought LSG made errors by calling 
the number of the phone that was with it for repair and not calling Mr G on the other phone numbers it held regarding his policy, and by asking for memory size information it already 
had access to. And he thought LSG caused delays by incorrectly sending a locked phone 
and by not seeing that the second replacement phone order had failed until Mr G called to 
chase things. The investigator said LSGs offer of £50 compensation wasnt enough and it 
should instead pay Mr G £125.
LSG disagreed. It said it called the number Mr G gave as a contact in his claim form and that 
Mr G hadnt stated the memory size when he registered the phone, so it was right to call and 
check. And that after this, Mr G took a day to call LSG which contributed to the overall delay. 
LSG didnt know why a locked phone was sent out but apologised for this. And said it found 
the second replacement phone order had failed whilst it was investigating Mr Gs complaint, 
rather than as a result of Mr G telling it. LSG said the claim should have been settled on 6 
June 2019 on delivery of the first replacement phone, but instead took a further five calendar 
days (three working days). It thought £50 was fair compensation for that delay.
Mr G also disagreed with our investigator. He thought £125 wasnt enough in light of the £25 
policy excess and the time and effort hed spent pursuing his complaint, including with our 
service. Mr G thought £200 was fairer compensation, as it would allow him to buy a suitable 
spare phone in case a similar situation happened again.
As both Mr G and LSG disagreed, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. After 
considering it, I contacted Mr G and LSG to share my thoughts. I clarified that while Mrs Gs 
phone was covered under the policy, the policy was only in Mr Gs name and so only Mr G 
was an eligible complainant. Therefore, I could only award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience Mr G was put to, and not Mrs G.
I thought LSG hadnt made any errors when it called Mr G to check the memory size. But its 
errors in sending an unlocked phone and its ordering of the second replacement phone 
caused unnecessary delays of five days. And that £125 was fair compensation for these 
delays, in light of the unnecessary distress, frustration and inconvenience they caused Mr G. 
I said LSG was entitled to provide a different colour replacement phone and that I wouldnt 
consider LSGs handling of calls with Mrs G, as Id not seen that Mr G had complained to 
LSG about this first. 
Mr G didnt provide any further comments. LSG apologised for sending a locked phone and 
the failure of the second replacement phone order. It explained the timescales it gave to 
customers were an aim rather than a guarantee, and it couldnt have foreseen or prevented 
the failure of the second replacement phone order. But it agreed it caused a five day delay in 
settling Mr Gs claim, though it thought this was a relatively short delay and that two of these 
five days were at the weekend when Mrs G might have been at home and contactable on 
her landline if her daughter needed to call. So it thought the £50 compensation it had already 
offered was fair and didnt agree it should pay £125 instead.
Ive now gone on to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm upholding it.
 
delaysLSG received the damaged phone from Mr G on 29 May 2019. When Mr G called for an 
update on 3 June 2019, it told him the phone wasnt repairable and it would send a 
replacement. So LSG took five days to assess the phone and tell Mr G the outcome. I dont 
think thats an unreasonably long time.
LSG tried calling Mr G on 4 June 2019 to check the phones memory size. Mr G says LSG 
had already asked for this information at the start of the policy, and he provided it. Ive seen 
the registration information Mr G gave to LSG at the start of the policy, but it doesnt include 
the memory size. And the section of the policy terms that cover registration makes no 
mention of asking for the memory size. Instead it only says the mobile phone number, the 
make, model and IMEI number, and Mr Gs bank account number and sort code are needed.
The claim form Mr G submitted doesnt include the memory size either. Further, LSG has 
provided screenshots to show that memory size wasnt something it could find out using the 
IMEI number. So Im satisfied LSG didnt already have the memory size information it was 
calling Mr G to ask for. And since there are several different memory sizes this phone could 
have had, I dont think it was unreasonable for LSG to check which one was correct.
LSG tried calling Mr G on the number hed given in the claim updates contact number 
section of the claim form. This was the number of the phone being repaired, but LSG wasnt 
unreasonable to call it as it was a number Mr G had said it could contact him on regarding 
the claim. However, Mr G also included another contact number in the claim form, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest LSG tried calling that when it couldnt reach him on the first number. 
In any case, Mr G called LSG the next day for an update, and confirmed the memory size 
then. So I dont think LSG not calling the other number caused a significant delay.
Mr G received the first replacement phone on 6 June 2019. I think the claim should have 
been settled at this point. But the replacement phone was incorrectly locked to a network. 
LSG accepts that was an error on its part, so thats not in dispute. LSG therefore needed to 
order a second replacement phone, but that order failed, which LSG also accepts was an 
error on its part. In the end, Mr G received a suitable replacement phone on 11 June 2019. 
LSG took thirteen days to settle the claim, five days longer than it should have taken 
because, as Ive said, I think the claim should have been settled on 6 June 2019. So LSGs 
errors caused an unnecessary delay.
replacement phone colour
Mr G says the second, and final, replacement phone LSG sent was a different colour than 
the phone claimed for. But I dont think LSG has done anything wrong here, as the policy 
terms and conditions entitle it to provide a different colour replacement. Section 3 of the 
policy says We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colour but we cant 
guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones.
LSG was rude and abrupt in calls
The examples Mr G has provided of this are that LSG wouldnt talk to Mrs G as she wasnt a 
policy holder, and that LSG said the terms and conditions entitled it to send a different colour 
replacement phone. Ive not seen that Mr G has complained to LSG about its handling of 
these calls, so its not something I can consider as part of this complaint. If Mr G wants to 
raise a complaint about these calls, then he should do so with LSG in the first instance so 
that it has the opportunity to address things. And if he remains dissatisfied, then he could 
refer his complaint to our service. But in any case, I dont think how LSG handled those calls 
is the crux of what Mr G is unhappy about. Instead, I think the crux of his complaint is the 
delays and the colour of the replacement phone. And these are the points I have considered.Putting things right
In summary then, I think LSG took five days longer than it should have to replace the phone. 
LSG says its timescales are an aim rather than a guarantee, that it couldnt foresee or 
prevent the failure of the second replacement phone order and that this was a relatively 
short delay over a weekend when inconvenience might have been minimal. Nonetheless, it 
was still an unnecessary delay of five days that caused Mr G distress and inconvenience. I 
say that because Mr G needed to call LSG to put right the incorrectly locked phone. And he 
was concerned for longer than necessary about his daughter not being able to call that 
phone in an emergency, albeit for a relatively short period of time. And its not fair or 
reasonable to assume someone would be at home over the weekend to receive landline 
calls. 
I understand Mr G would like £200 compensation, to buy a suitable spare phone so hes not 
left in this position again in future and to reflect the inconvenience of having to pursue this 
complaint with LSG and our service. But the role of our service is to put consumers back into 
the position they should have been in if a business has made an error, not to prevent the 
impact of future errors that may or may not happen. LSG gave Mr Gs its final response to 
his complaint on 11 June 2019, four days after he raised it. Thats not an unreasonably long 
time and its within the eight week timeframe businesses like LSG are entitled to when 
responding to this type of complaint. In addition, LSG has no responsibility for how long our 
service takes to investigate a complaint. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me 
to ask LSG to pay Mr G more compensation for the reasons hes suggested. 
Taking everything into account, I think £125 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience LSGs errors caused Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. Assurant General Insurance 
Limited should pay Mr G a total of £125 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman