DRN-3970092
The complaint
Mr H complains about Standard Life Assurance Limited. He says that it caused delays in 
transferring his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and that this has caused him a 
financial loss.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr H completed a form to transfer his funds from Standard Life to a new 
provider HL in cash.
The transfer was complex, and took longer than Mr H expected, and involved a lot of going 
back and forth between Standard Life, HL and Mr H.
Mr H was unhappy with Standard Life and brought a complaint to this service. He said:
Standard Life refused to make a partial transfer in cash on 14 January 2020.
It caused delays to the transfer of his SIPP of five months.
Standard Life delayed his instruction to sell stock causing financial loss.
Our Investigator considered his complaint, and in summary said that while they had 
sympathy for Mr H as the transfer clearly took longer than he expected, that they couldnt 
say that Standard Life had refused to transfer cash to HL on 14 January 2020  and that 
they werent satisfied that Standard Life had done anything wrong here. 
However they also said that Standard Life did take longer than was reasonable to send the 
asset list to HL, and while they couldnt be sure this had caused Mr H a financial loss, it 
wouldve caused him some stress and thought Standard Life should compensate Mr H for 
this with £150.
Mr H remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision on Mr Hs complaint, explaining my thoughts. 
Mr H accepted the provisional decision. 
Standard Life responded to say that it didnt agree with the decision, or the timeline I had set 
out  and that it intended to respond in full before the deadline I had set. However, this 
deadline has now passed, and so I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision 
which is now my final decision as set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that Mr H has provided extensive commentary and detail to support 
his complaint, it is clear to me that he feels very aggrieved by the whole situation, and I can 
understand his frustration. I wont comment on every point that Mr H has made, but I would 
like to reassure Mr H that I have read all the correspondence he has sent.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here  
essentially, Mr H is upset about the length of time that the transfer of his SIPP from Standard 
Life to HL took. 
I have already been in touch with Mr H and explained to him that while the process did take 
longer than he wouldve liked, I dont think that the overall time the transfer took was 
unreasonable given the complex nature of his request and that I mostly agreed with the 
outcome that our Investigator reached. However, I did think that there was an avoidable 
delay, and that Standard Life needed to do more to make this right. 
While the majority of the time it took to complete the transfer was reasonable given the 
circumstances, there was a significant delay in Standard Life sending the asset list to HL, 
which Standard Life has provided no explanation or reason for. And I dont think that 
Standard Life taking five weeks to send this list is reasonable.
I consider that such an action should take no longer than two weeks  meaning that there 
was an avoidable delay of three weeks to the transfer. As HL acted quickly on receipt of the 
asset list and there was no other information outstanding, I think that this wouldve sped up 
the whole transfer process by three weeks. This means that I think Mr H wouldve made the 
request to sell to cash three weeks earlier than he did, on 20 February 2020, and that the 
sales wouldve been completed in five working days on 27 February 2020.
This also means the transfer to HL would therefore have also taken place three weeks 
earlier than it eventually did on 14 April 2020  meaning the transfer wouldve taken place on 
24 March 2020, and ultimately the funds would have been placed into his new HL SIPP 
three weeks earlier too. HL has said that the funds from Standard Life were added to the 
new HL SIPP on 16 April 2020. So, I think the funds wouldve been added to the SIPP and 
invested on 26 March 2020 had the delay not occurred.
I explained this to Mr H, and he accepted my proposal, although he questioned how this 
would be calculated. So, to summarise, Im upholding the complaint and Ive set out how 
Standard Life should compensate Mr H for the delay below.
I also think that Standard Life should pay Mr H £150 for the distress and inconvenience this 
delay caused him.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if the delay not taken place.
At present, it isnt clear whether this delay has caused Mr H a financial loss. However, 
Standard Life should now take steps to calculate if any loss has been caused  based on 
selling all of Mr Hs assets to cash (excluding the fund that was transferred in-specie) on 
27 February 2020, and the funds being invested with HL on 26 March 2020.
If Standard Life determines there has been a loss, it should compensate Mr H as per the 
steps below.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What must Standard Life do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Standard Life must:Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Standard Life should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
If there is a loss, Standard Life should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Standard Life is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Standard Life or Mr H dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they 
must let us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and 
Mr H receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Pay Mr H £150 for distress and inconvenience caused by the whole process.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Standard Life deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Standard Life should give Mr 
H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Value of HL 
SIPP had assets 
been sold to 
cash on 27 
February 2020Still exists 
and liquidInvestment 
growth in line 
with the 
growth 
experienced 
in HL SIPP 26 March 
2020Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days (assuming 
investment in 
the same 
funds)of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Standard Life totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
I think Mr H wouldve invested his funds in the same way with HL had his assets 
been sold to cash earlier and invested with HL sooner.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Standard Life Assurance Limited should now pay Mr H £150 and 
make the necessary calculations and pay the amount as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman