DRN-3691115
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Schroder Unit Trusts Limited handled a query he raised to 
do with the fund performance of his stocks and shares ISA. He says a telephone call he 
made was handled poorly and this has caused disruption to his personal and financial 
affairs. 
What happened
In March 2022, a fund held in Mr Hs ISA was merged with a new one. Schroder wrote to 
him to explain this and provided information about the reasons and implications of the 
merger of funds. 
On 16 May 2022, Mr H telephoned Schroder to query the performance of his ISA. He 
wanted to know if there was a link between the significant decline of the monthly value of 
his holding and the recent conversion from one fund to another. He was dissatisfied with 
how the call was handled, so raised a complaint. 
Schroders issued a final response to Mr H. In summary it said:
- It apolgised that the telephone call Mr H made wasnt handled as well as it could 
have been. It also acknowledged that Mr Hs query should have been referred to the 
fund manager by the call handler rather than asking him to email in.
- The performance of Mr Hs investment was not attributed to the merger of two funds, 
but more the performance of the underlying markets. It provided an update from the 
fund manager to explain the recent performance. And offered to answer any further 
queries Mr H may have about the fund merger. 
Mr H didnt agree with the response Schroder sent. As no resolution could be found, one of 
our investigators looked into the complaint. She issued an assessment to Mr H that didnt 
uphold the complaint. She acknowledged that the initial call handler said the merger had no 
impact on the value of the fund  but quickly corrected this in the call. She also noted that Mr 
H was told he would need to email in his query  but again that this was corrected quickly 
without Mr H having to make a further request. She also noted Schroder sent the fund 
information to Mr H as part of its complaint handling process. Overall, she didnt think there 
has been any detriment to Mr H by the way his query was handled.  
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He maintained that Schroder has made 
errors and are at fault. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed 
to me to reach a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the submissions provided to me by Mr H and Schroder  having done so Ive 
reached a conclusion that this complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the call Mr H made to Schroder to raise his query. Its apparent from the call 
that Mr H wanted to understand the reasons for a fall in value of his investment  and 
whether this was linked to the merger of funds. Im satisfied the call handler made 
reasonable attempts to deal with Mr Hs queries and explained why she wasnt immediately 
able to provide the full answer he was looking for. I acknowledge there were two occasions 
where the information given to Mr H wasnt accurate  but the call hander quickly corrected 
the position and apologised. Ultimately the call wasnt productive and was passed to a 
manager who also apologised to Mr H for being put on hold. From the tone of the call, I can 
hear that Mr H became frustrated and this led to him repeating his queries. However, Im 
satisfied it was made clear to him that it wasnt possible for his original query to be answered 
immediately and he would need to wait for it to be referred on so that a written response 
could be sent.
I can see that Mr H was written to the day after the call and provided with information relating 
to the fund conversion rate and informed the fund manager would provide a further update. 
The final response to his complaint was then issued two weeks later and this included 
detailed information to clarify the impact of the fund merger on performance. It also gave Mr 
H the opportunity to clarify if he had any outstanding queries. So, I find that Schroder dealt 
with Mr Hs query in a reasonable and timely manner. 
Overall, Im satisfied Schroder dealt with Mr Hs query appropriately. While there were 
aspects of the initial call that could have been handled better, the call handler was quick to 
apologise and correct the position. While Mr H remained unsatisfied with the call, I dont find 
that Schroder need to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman