DRN-2271447
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with claims she made on her 
home emergency insurance policy.
Ms Bs represented by Mr N.
What happened
Ms Bs boiler had been experiencing faults over a couple of years. Amtrusts engineers had 
attended and managed to put things right. In April 2019, Ms B made another claim on her 
policy. One of Amtrusts engineers came out and said the boiler was overheating. They 
recommended that Ms B should replace her boiler. So Ms B paid for a new boiler to be 
installed in mid-May 2019. The boiler system was also cleansed.
Unfortunately, a few days later, Ms B experienced the same faults with her boiler. Ultimately, 
Amtrust diagnosed a blockage in the system and removed a section of pipe. This resolved 
the issues with the new boiler.
Ms B was unhappy with the way Amtrust had dealt with her claims. She said if its engineers 
had properly investigated the boiler faults over the past couple of years, theyd have 
discovered the issues were down to sludge. But instead, shed paid for a new boiler when 
she hadnt needed to. So Mr N complained on her behalf. He suggested that Amtrust should 
waive the cost of the new boiler as a gesture of goodwill.
Amtrust didnt agree. It said its engineers had been recommending the replacement of the 
boiler since 2017, due to its age and efficiency and the fact it was kettling It said kettling 
was due to a build-up of sludge in the heat exchanger. It said the blockage thatd been found 
in the pipework was likely a build-up of sludge and debris. This couldve been down to 
sludge being stirred up when the new boiler was being installed and the cleanse carried out. 
Amtrust said the sludge couldve been removed if Ms B had agreed to a full system 
powerflush when the new boiler was fitted, but shed only opted for a basic cleanse.
Ms B remained unhappy with the way Amtrust had dealt with her claims, so Mr N asked us 
to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He noted that Amtrusts 
records showed Ms B had been advised to get a new boiler since 2017 and hadnt done so. 
He thought the boiler was old and wouldve always needed to be replaced. And he didnt 
think Amtrusts job notes suggested that the pipe blockage had been the cause of the faults 
from 2017 onwards.
Mr N disagreed. He said that since 2017, the engineers had kept the boiler at the lowest 
setting  if the temperature was increase, the boiler tripped. The engineers hadnt been 
aware of the blocked pipe. He said Ms B had been told in 2019 that she could have a 
powerflush, but it probably wouldnt do much and she should get the boiler replaced instead. 
Once the new boiler had experienced faults, Amtrusts engineer told Ms B that keeping the 
boiler on a low setting had masked the blockage. Mr N said Amtrust hadnt properly 
investigated the root cause of the boiler faults  if it had, they wouldnt have needed to 
replace the old, but serviceable boiler. Instead, Ms B couldve paid for the pipework to be 
replaced at a significantly lower cost.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Amtrust has treated Ms B fairly. Ill explain why.
First, its important that I explain Im not a gas engineer, or a specialist in heating. My role is 
to assess the evidence thats been provided by both parties to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened and whether I think Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably. Where 
expert evidence, such as engineers reports, have been provided, I will generally place 
significant weight on it. Thats because engineers are specialist in their roles. 
I appreciate Ms B and Mr N feel strongly that Amtrusts engineers didnt properly investigate 
what was causing the issues with Ms Bs boiler. They believe that if a full investigation had 
been carried out, the blockage wouldve been discovered earlier. So Ive looked carefully at 
Amtrusts records which show what happened at each appointment.
Its clear that in May 2017, after fitting new sensors, Amtrusts engineer recommended that 
the boiler should be replaced. Amtrust tried to arrange a quote at that point, but a new 
installation didnt go ahead. In October 2017, following another breakdown, the engineer 
diagnosed kettling and recommended the replacement of the boiler due to its age and 
efficiency. Ms B accepts that the boiler was old  possibly 17 years old. So it seems most 
likely that the boiler wouldve required replacing at some point in the near future.
The notes suggest that Amtrusts engineers tried to repair the faults, as well as advising Ms 
B to replace the boiler, including fitting new sensors and turning down the temperature. They 
also reset the boiler at points. So this suggests that Amtrusts engineers did make 
reasonable attempts to try and diagnose what was causing the faults.
I can see from the notes that aside from a leak in June 2018 and annual pre-booked 
services, the boiler didnt break down again until April 2019. So it seems that the boiler was 
functioning on a lower temperature for around eighteen months with no issues. This doesnt 
support that a pipe blockage was causing consistent issues at this point.
From the notes, it seems that the faults with the boiler when it was tripping and needed to 
be reset were indicated by a flashing red light. However, an F85 fault code appeared on the 
boiler after the new boiler had been installed. Its this code that shows there was poor 
circulation in the system, which was causing the breakdown. Amtrust says this is generally 
caused by a build-up of sludge and debris. It was following the appearance of this code that 
Amtrust suggested a powerflush to remove sludge from the system and ultimately removed 
the blocked pipe.
This seems to tie-in with what Amtrust has told us about why it thinks the sludge manifested 
itself after the boiler was installed. It said that during a system cleanse and new installation, 
debris and sludge can become dislodged and gather together to form a blockage. It says 
that a powerflush during the installation mightve helped to avoid this situation. But that Ms B 
didnt take up this option when it was recommended.So it seems to me that the fact that a pipe blockage was causing issues most likely wouldnt 
have become apparent to the engineers until after the F85 code was seen and the new 
boiler was installed. When this issue was discovered, Amtrust removed the blocked section 
of pipe, even though claims which are down to sludge are specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. This wasnt something it was strictly required to do. So I think it was fair of it to do so 
in the circumstances.
I do appreciate how strongly Ms B and Mr N feel about this issue and Ive thought carefully 
about what theyve said. But Ive borne in mind that they havent provided any independent 
expert evidence which shows its more likely than not that the blockage shouldve been 
apparent before the boiler was replaced. And as Ive explained, I think the boiler wouldve 
needed to be replaced sooner rather than later due to its age and the ongoing issues.
So overall, I think its most likely that Amtrust dealt with Ms Bs claims fairly and reasonably. 
That means Im not telling Amtrust to waive the cost of the new boiler.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman