DRN-3581558
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy about the outcome of a chargeback claim she made through Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs M, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Lloyds, its administered by Visa and they set 
the rules. Lloyds didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it fair for them to do 
so in these circumstances and I can see they did.
But that claim was submitted on the basis that the transaction was fraudulent and when that 
was rejected by the scheme administrators Lloyds had nowhere else to go. Thats because 
the scheme rules forbid a second chargeback claim. Section 11.2.1 Dispute Resolution 
Process General Requirements of Visa Core Rules and Visa Product and Service Rules 
explain:
The Issuer must not initiate a Dispute for the same Transaction more than once, except for 
a Dispute initiated under Dispute condition 10.5
Rule 10.5 is about Visas fraud monitoring programme identifying the transaction so that 
wasnt what the dispute was initiated under and therefore Visa wouldnt accept a further 
chargeback on the basis of the goods being of unsatisfactory quality.
I can see that Lloyds were prepared to compensate Mrs M for some things that went wrong 
when she was making her claim e.g. the length of time it took and the service during the 
complaint. I think, having considered the chain of events, that compensation was 
reasonable.
For those reasons I dont think it would be fair to suggest Lloyds have done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman