DRN-2003350
The complaint
G complains Gefion Insurance A/S offer to settle its commercial motor insurance claim is too 
low.
What happened
In 2019 G claimed on its Gefion motor fleet schedule. One of its vehicles had been stolen 
and not recovered. Gefion accepted the claim. It valued the vehicle at £3,600. After an 
excess of £500 was applied its settlement offer to G was £3,100. G didnt accept that 
valuation. Gefion eventually increased the valuation and offer to £3,850. 
G still wasnt happy with that but Gefion refused to increase its offer. It said its valuation was 
an accurate reflection of the pre-accident market value of the vehicle. G says the valuation is 
too low. It says Gefions failure to agree a reasonable settlement left it without a suitable 
vehicle  causing it to lose income. G wants compensation for that as well as for the 
inconvenience its been caused. 
Our Investigator initially said £9,000 would be a reasonable valuation. After she realised this 
had been based on some incorrect information, she said £5,930 would be a fair valuation. 
She said the claim should be settled based on that. She also recommended Gefion pay 
£500 compensation. It didnt agree to that. It asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
Before issuing this final decision, I wrote to both parties to explain I didnt intend to require 
Gefion to pay G any extra to settle its claim. G provided a number of comments in response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gs policy says in the event of a total loss Gefion a settlement will be based on the current 
market value of the vehicle.  It says the most Gefion will pay is the vehicles market value. 
Market value is defined as the cost of replacing it with another of the same make and model 
of a similar age and condition at the time of the loss.  
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a vehicle. When looking into these 
types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider information other than trade 
guides, including adverts. But we place most weight on the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable than individual adverts. 
And adverts can be misleading as often vehicles dont sell for the advertised price. Sale 
prices are often lower after negotiations take place. 
Its worth noting that Gefions valuation and settlement is exclusive of VAT. Gs vehicle 
incurs VAT at resale. G is registered for VAT. It may be able to claim VAT paid for a 
replacement back from HMRC. So its reasonable for Gefion to settle in that way   
Gefion valuation of £3,850 is based on the average of two trade guides  at £3,600 and 
£4,095. Its provided a third valuation at £6,867. But it excluded that from its calculation as it 
felt it was significantly out of the line with the other two  an outlier.
Ive previously explained to G and Gefion why, unlike our investigator, I feel Gefions 
valuations were fair at the time it used them to make its offer. So I dont intend to go into 
detail about that again here. But in summary they seem to have been produced using correct 
information about the vehicle, including it being a tipper model. The third, highest valuation, 
is an outlier so it was reasonable of Gefion to exclude it when calculating its market value. 
Gs provided various information, including adverts and comments from a motor dealer to 
support its position that Gefions market value is too low. Ive considered those and 
everything Gs said including about the cost of a replacement tipper body. But as I said we 
find the trade guides the most reliable. Whilst we do consider other information in this case I 
havent seen enough to make me think Gefions offer, based on the trade guides, is unfair. 
As I havent found Gefions offer was unfair, Im also not requiring it to pay G any 
compensation. I accept G will find this very frustrating but Im not going to require Gefion to 
pay G any extra to settle the claim or do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Gefion Insurance A/S pay G any extra or do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman