DRN-1545308
 
The complaint
 Mr Cs unhappy with the time TSB Bank Plc (TSB) has taken to update his credit file.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr C became bankrupt. His was discharged from this in April 2019. And, in 
May 2019, Mr C wanted to upgrade his bank account. So he asked his lenders, including 
TSB, to update his credit file to reflect that he no longer owed an outstanding balance. 
And by 7 June 2019, Mr C had provided TSB with his bankruptcy certificate at its request, so 
it could do this for his credit card.
In mid-June 2019, TSB updated Mr Cs account to partially settled and told him this could 
take up to 8 weeks to reflect on his credit file. On 14 August 2019, TSB raised a data dispute 
with the credit reference agencies, as Mr C had called it three times to say his credit file 
hadnt been updated. During one of these calls he was told to visit branch with his certificate, 
and he reminded TSB that he had already done this.
Then, around 15 August 2019, TSB sent Mr C a letter saying he had missed payments and 
that his credit file would be affected if he didnt put things right. A few days later, Mr C called 
TSB to query why he had received this, but he wasnt able to speak to the right department.
On 18 September 2019, Mr C called TSB to ask why his credit file still hadnt been updated. 
He was told TSB would raise a data dispute and that it could take between six to eight 
weeks to reflect on his credit file. Then, on 19 September 2019, TSB sent Mr C a formal 
demand for payment. 
On 20 September, Mr C called TSB to raise a complaint. Mr C said he had spoken to one of 
the credit reference agencies about this issue and was told TSB could provide him with a 
reference number for the agency to do the update for him. But TSB said it carries out the 
amendment itself manually, which would take between four to six weeks to show up on Mr 
Cs credit file.
Mr C told TSB that months ago it had said it would take six to eight weeks to update his 
credit file, but the negative information was still there even though he had called seven times 
chasing this. Mr C also explained that when he spoke to one of TSBs call handlers he was 
told I am not your mate and that the only person who could help him was on annual leave. 
He also let TSB know that he suffers from anxiety and depression, and his mental health had 
been impacted by this matter.
In response, TSB said it would place Mr Cs account on hold for 28 days for calls and letters. 
And because of the number of calls Mr C had made to it, one of which lasted 60 minutes, 
and because it hadnt amended his credit file, TSB paid him £250 compensation. This was 
made up of £202 for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience, £33 for his call costs and £15 for his 
travel costs to branch. And a week later, TSB raised a further data dispute for Mr C.In mid-November 2019, Mr C called TSB as he was unhappy his credit file still hadnt been 
updated. The contact notes show he was told the person who could provide him with an 
update wasnt in the office. And that someone would contact him with an update when they 
returned, but no one got in touch with him.
So towards the end of November 2019, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He was 
unhappy his credit file still hadnt been updated despite the calls he had made to TSB and 
assurances it had given him. Mr C said he was spoken to abruptly by one of TSBs call 
handlers, and the phone was put down on him. And he told us he had previously lost his 
business, had been feeling suicidal, is on medication for depression and anxiety and hasnt 
been able to work due to his health.
In mid-December 2019, while one of our investigators was looking into Mr Cs complaint, 
TSB told us that as Mr Cs credit file still hadnt been amended it was raising a further data 
dispute for him.
After looking into Mr Cs complaint, our investigator said TSB had taken much longer to 
resolve this issue for Mr C than the period it had offered him £250 for. She said Mr C had to 
keep chasing TSB during this time and this had impacted on his anxiety and depression. So 
she asked TSB to pay Mr C a further £150 compensation. 
In response, TSB confirmed Mr Cs credit file had been updated to show as partially settled 
from April 2019. But it didnt agree to pay Mr C further compensation, as it said this matter 
wont have affected his ability to apply for lending products because his account will only 
show as partially settled on his credit file. So the complaints been passed to me for a 
decision. 
I contacted TSB to say that having considered the impact on Mr C in his particular 
circumstances, I thought it should pay him a further £250 compensation, rather than the 
£150 that the investigator recommended, on top of the £250 its already paid him. 
In response, TSB said it thinks its paid Mr C enough compensation. It says he chose to 
declare himself bankrupt. And that while the amendment to his credit file has been delayed, 
the change will have the same impact on his ability to borrow money and/or open new 
accounts. So TSB doesnt think this matter has had a significant impact on Mr Cs financial 
situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
TSB hasnt disputed that its responsible for whats happened here, or for the time its taken 
for Mr Cs credit file to be amended, so I havent considered this further. Therefore, the issue 
for me to decide is whether TSBs done enough to compensate Mr C for this. 
Mr C first approached TSB to get his credit file updated in May 2019. And it seems it had 
what it needed to do this by early June 2019. But it wasnt updated for over another six 
months, which is far longer than I would expect this to take. And much longer than Mr C was 
told it would take by TSB. 
I can see Mr Cs made numerous calls to TSB about this during this time. And hes also 
been given incorrect information. Including being told he would need to send in his 
bankruptcy discharge certificate, when he had already done this. Mr C was also sent a late payment and a default letter, which clearly caused him worry given 
he called TSB to query this. And it seems unlikely he would have received these letters if 
TSB had resolved the issue with his credit file sooner.
And when Mr C approached TSB again in mid-November 2019, concerned the mark was still 
showing on his credit file, he was told someone would be in touch with him with an update, 
but I cant see this was done. 
Mr Cs also said that one of TSBs advisers put the phone down on him, and that he was 
spoken to abruptly. But TSB doesnt seem to have addressed this. And when I put Mr Cs 
comments to it, it hasnt disputed what he said. 
Its reasonable to think that everything thats happened might cause anyone worry, 
frustration and inconvenience. But I have to consider the impact on Mr C, in his specific 
circumstances. Hes told us he has depression and anxiety  hes on medication, has seen a 
specialist and cant work because of it. And that trying to resolve this matter with TSB made 
that very much worse. Mr C also told us he had lost his business, and we know he had just 
been through bankruptcy when this issue was ongoing. 
And, while I appreciate Mr C chose to declare himself bankrupt and he might not have been 
able to get the type of account he wanted even if TSB had updated his credit file sooner, I 
think this matter has made things worse for him during an already difficult time. And when Mr 
C was trying to get his finances back on track following his bankruptcy, I think its clear from 
the level of contact Mr C had with TSB that he was anxious about sorting this matter out. I 
can see from the contact notes that TSB was aware of his state of health. 
Putting things right
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied this issue has impacted on Mr C more than it might have if 
his health had been different. So, I think TSB should pay Mr C a further £250 compensation, 
on top of the £250 its already paid to him. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require TSB Bank Plc to 
pay him a further £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman