DRN-2795418
The complaint
Mr D says Loans2Go Limited gave him loans that were unaffordable at extremely high
interest rates. 
What happened
Mr D took out seven loans from Loans2Go between December 2015 and July 2019. A
summary of his borrowing follows. 
*top up of loan 2
Mr D says Loans2Go didnt do effective affordability checks or advise him about free debt
management advice when needed.
Our adjudicator found that loans 4 to 7 should not have been given. She said Loans2Go had
completed proportionate checks for all the loans but it hadnt made fair lending decisions for
loans 4 onwards based on the information it gathered.
Loans2Go disagreed saying, in summary, whilst there was some adverse information on
Mr Ds credit file this was to be expected given the type of lending it offers. It argues the
reports were on the whole very positive and it disagreed it was wrong to lend to Mr D. As
agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I reached a different conclusion to our adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked for the parties to send me any 
further comments by 27 May 2021.
extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans2Go asked for some information from Mr D before it approved the loans. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. For the earlier loans it says it checked his
income with payslips, and with the later loans it completed an income verification check with
a third party. It says it adjusted his declared expenditure to ensure it was reasonable using
national averages. For each application it checked Mr Ds credit file to understand his
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. I cant see it asked about the
purpose of the loans. From these checks combined Loans2Go concluded the loans were
affordable for Mr D.
I agree with the adjudicator that the checks were proportionate for loans 1 and 2, and I
havent found anything in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make
different lending decisions.
However I dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 3. The amount being lent was
significantly higher than loans 1 and 2, and it was over a longer term. Plus, from the pattern
of Mr Ds borrowing I think Loans2Go ought to have realised it was most likely Mr D was
becoming increasingly reliant on credit to meet his ongoing needs. So Loans2Go needed to
make sure it fully understood Mr Ds finances.
It seems that Loans2Go continued to rely heavily on information that Mr D was providing
about his monthly expenditure. The rules and regulations say that where a lender takes
income or expenditure into account, it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a
statement of those matters made by the customer. And I dont think in this case it was
enough to rely on national averages as a check. In the circumstances I think Loans2Go
should have sought to independently verify more of the information to ensure its checks
were borrower-focused. There are different ways it could have done this, I have looked at
Mr Ds bank statements from the time to see what the lender might have found from a fuller
financial review.
Better checks would have shown Loans2Go that Mr D was having problems managing his
money. In the month before Mr Ds application for loan 3 he spent just under half his income
on gambling transactions. As a responsible lender I think Loans2Go would have realised
there was a high risk Mr D would be unable to sustainably repay this loan. So I think it was
wrong to give this loan.
It follows that had it carried out proper checks for loan 3 and declined the application, I would
only have expected Loans2Go to lend to Mr D in the future if it could be sure his financial
situation had stabilised. I am not persuaded Loans2Go carried out good enough borrower- 
focused checks for these subsequent loans given it needed to be sure Mr D could sustain
his repayments over 18 months.
But as our adjudicator set out, even from the level of checks it carried out Loans2Go ought
to have realised that Mr D was struggling financially. There was evidence Mr D was having
problems managing his money - on the credit report the lender reviewed at the time of loan 4
it could see a County Court Judgment had been registered against him in August 2016. And
it could see his total level of indebtedness hadnt decreased showing his financial position
hadnt improved.
The pattern had not changed at the time of Mr Ds applications for either loan 5, 6 or 7. On
each occasion the credit reports Loans2Go looked at showed his overall indebtedness had
increased since the prior application, and he was relying more on his overdraft and credit
cards. By loan 7 Mr D had been borrowing from Loans2Go for over three and a half years
during which time his overall debt had risen by almost £15,000. So I think Loans2Go ought
to have realised continuing to lend to Mr D was contributing to his indebtedness increasing
unsustainably, and he was most likely in a cycle of borrowing to repay other debt.
Loans2Go argues Mr D was an outstanding customer, settling a number of loans early.
Whilst I agree early settlement can be a sign of an improved financial position, it can also
indicate that someone is borrowing to repay so this does not change my provisionalconclusion. It follows I think Loans2Go was wrong to give loans 3 to 7 to Mr D.
I went on to explain why I didnt find that Loans2Go had acted unfairly or unreasonable in
any other way. And I set out what Loans2Go would need to do to put things right.
Both parties responded before the deadline to say they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
I followed it here. 
As neither party sent any new comments or evidence it follows I have no reason to change 
the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. And I am upholding Mr Ds 
irresponsible lending complaint about loans 3 to 7.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr D to have repaid all the capital that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on five
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him. So Loans2Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 3 to 7 and treat all the payments
Mr D made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ds loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original amounts of capital borrowed, then Loans2Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to
loans 3 to 7.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans2Go must
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 I am upholding Mr Ds complaint in part and Loans2Go limited must put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman