DRN-3673160
The complaint
Mr S complains about repeated incorrect information from The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc
(TMW). He said hed lost faith in the company, so he moved his mortgage elsewhere. He
wanted TMW to refund his Early Repayment Charge (ERC) and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr S took out a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with TMW in 2013. Then in 2015 he took some 
additional borrowing. This meant he had two separate borrowing amounts with TMW, within 
his overall mortgage. Ill refer to these as loans.
Mr S has ERCs on both of these loans. He can overpay a certain amount each year, without
triggering those ERCs  which Ill refer to as an overpayment allowance. He has chosen to
use this allowance, making overpayments, in the past.
Mr S complained that hed been given repeated wrong information by TMW. He said it gave
him the wrong amounts when he asked how much of his overpayment allowance was left on
each loan. He got different answers from different people. He said TMW gave him the wrong
account details for making overpayments to, and one of his payments didnt go through. He
feared other payments might also be lost, although Mr S hasnt yet confirmed this. And Mr S
said TMW had allocated his overpayments to the wrong loans.
TMW has accepted that it gave Mr S conflicting information about how much of his
overpayment allowance was left. It said it had also looked at his loans, and could see that it
had added some of these overpayments to the wrong loan, so it would correct that for him.
TMW also said it had given Mr S an incorrect sort code for the account to make
overpayments to, so TMW couldnt find the transaction. It asked him to send evidence of the
transaction, so it could locate the money.
TMW said it would like to pay Mr S £150 to say sorry for what had gone wrong, and it sent
him a cheque for this amount. Mr S said he wasnt going to accept that. He said the onus
had been put on him to check his statements for any missing payments, although this was
TMWs mistake. And hed been so upset by all of this, that he had now moved his mortgage
elsewhere. Mr S wanted TMW to pay back the £1,600 ERC he was charged when he did
that. He wanted the missing money refunded, and compensation.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said TMW had made mistakes
about Mr Ss overpayment allowance, and crediting payments to the wrong account, which it
had now put right. If Mr S did find any missing payments, then they should be repaid, and
8% simple interest should be added to this refund.
Our investigator said he could see Mr S had ERCs on both of his loans. He went through the
terms of those mortgages, and said Mr S had been properly advised of the ERC on each
loan. Our investigator explained that an ERC is a common feature of fixed rate lending. Its
there to make sure the mortgage company can still cover the costs it incurs in arranging
fixed rate borrowing for a customer, if that customer decides to move their lending elsewhere
before the fixed term period ends. Our investigator said that TMW didnt have to refund that
money. But he did think it should pay Mr S £300 in compensation.
But TMW wanted a list of overpayments that had gone missing. It was concerned that it
could be asked to refund payments which had already been returned to Mr Ss account. Our
investigator said Mr S didnt yet have a list, and TMW would only have to repay any missing
payments that hadnt been credited to his TMW mortgage account or returned to his
originating account.
TMW wanted to know if payments had gone missing or not. It said Mr S should be expected
to know this. And it said if no payments were actually missing, then the trouble and upset to
Mr S would be less. But our investigator said Mr S hadnt yet had time to go through his bank
statements and cross-check them against his mortgage statements. Our investigator still
thought it was fair and reasonable for TMW to refund these payments with interest if any
were found.
TMW still thought its existing compensation offer was fair. It said the problems stemmed
from calls on 17 January and after, and it had been able to arrange for this to be put right for
Mr S within three days. It said Mr S still hadnt evidenced any missing payments, and it didnt
think we could assess this complaint without that information. It thought that if there were no
missing payments, there had been no detriment to Mr S by being provided with incorrect
bank details to make the payment to.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Mr S had lost all faith in TMW, and had
remortgaged knowing he would have to pay ERCs that might not be refunded. Our
investigator said that in his opinion, the knock on effect of the three errors TMW made was
one of the key reasons why Mr S chose to move his mortgage to another lender.
Our investigator still thought TMW should pay Mr S £300, and refund any missing payments
with interest. Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a
decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
TMW doesnt dispute that it gave Mr S incorrect information about the overpayment
allowance that was left on each of his loans. Mr S said different people kept giving him
different figures, and TMW accepts this. TMW also accepts that it sent some of the
overpayment money Mr S had paid, to the wrong one of his two loans with it. And it 
accepts that it gave Mr S incorrect account information for making overpayments.
TMW says theres no evidence that any money has actually been lost, and if it hasnt, 
then it doesnt think it should have to pay £300 in compensation.
I accept that Mr S hasnt shown any money has been lost. He told TMW it had given him
incorrect account details, and it said if a recent payment hadnt been sent back to him, it
would investigate. Mr S didnt follow that up, and because he was aware of this problem 
at the time, I think hed also have been aware of whether this money came back to him 
or not. So it seems likely that the money from this recent overpayment has been repaid 
to Mr S.
Mr S says his faith in TMW has been undermined, and he now wants all the otheroverpayments hes made to be checked, to see if those have also been properly 
credited. I understand that Mr S doesnt think the onus should be on him to do these 
checks, but if TMW really hadnt received some of Mr Ss other overpayments, it 
wouldnt be able to tell that these were sent. So I do think its reasonable for TMW to say 
that Mr S needs to check this himself. Hes told us that he hasnt had time to do that yet, 
for family reasons.
I dont think our service should delay a resolution in this complaint now. And I dont think 
we should put pressure on Mr S to make these checks immediately. Rather, I think this 
issue can be resolved if I include in my award a requirement for TMW to make refunds if 
any such missing overpayments are identified by Mr S, and to require it to pay 8% 
interest on top of that. But I also dont think this should be an open-ended offer  it 
wouldnt be fair to TMW to say its got to pay interest on overpayments at any point in 
the future when Mr S tells it about those. So I propose to ask Mr S to notify TMW of any 
such overpayments within three months of the date of my final decision. TMW only has 
to pay interest on returned overpayments, if it is notified of them within this period.
TMW says that without proof of missing overpayments, it thinks its offer of £150 was 
fair. But I dont agree. I can see TMW made a series of errors. And I note that Mr S has 
difficulties communicating on the phone, which are well recorded on TMWs contact 
notes. But he has had to make repeated calls to TMW, over a number of days, to try to 
sort these problems out. So I think TMW should pay a little more than £150.
Mr S thought TMW should pay a lot more, because he thought he should get back the
money he paid for the ERCs on his loans when he moved his mortgage to a different 
bank. Our investigator set out that Mr S was properly notified of the ERCs on each of his 
loans. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case to require TMW to refund the ERC which Mr S paid when he moved his mortgage 
elsewhere. I dont think that Mr S had to do that. But I do understand why Mr S chose to 
take this step, given TMWs errors, and I think the fact that he chose to pay the ERC 
without any reassurance that it would be refunded to him, demonstrates how concerned 
he was.
For those reasons, I think that even if TMW has not lost any of Mr Ss previous
overpayments, it should still pay him compensation of £300, to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience its mistakes caused to him.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TMW replied, but Mr S didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW said it accepted my provisional decision. But it wanted to let me know that it had 
already paid Mr S £150 for this complaint. 
I still think TMW should pay Mr S a total of £300 in compensation for this complaint. But our 
service had understood that Mr S turned down TMWs offer of £150, so I hadnt included 
provision for TMW to count that towards my award. I will do that here. That means if TMW 
can show Mr S has since cashed the cheque it sent, then it will only need to pay £150 more 
now.My final decision
My final decision is that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW hereafter) must pay Mr S a 
total of £300 in compensation. TMW can count towards that amount any payment it has 
already made to Mr S for this complaint. And if, within three months of the date of my final 
decision, Mr S sends TMW evidence of payments made to his mortgage account which have 
not been returned to him or credited to either of his loans, then TMW must investigate, and 
refund any missing payments, with 8% simple interest from the date the money left Mr Ss 
account to the date that TMW pays the refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman