DRN-4227183
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs S complain that an arrangement they set up for their overdraft facility on their 
joint account with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has impacted their credit 
file. They say it wasnt made clear to them when the arrangement was set up that this would 
happen.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs S held a joint account with an overdraft facility with Halifax. Following an email 
offer of support received by Mr F and Mrs S regarding their overdraft Mrs S arranged for a 
plan online to temporarily freeze overdraft charges on their joint account on 14 June 2022. 
Mrs S accepted the terms and conditions to set the plan up and Halifax confirmed this in 
writing by letter to both parties on the same day. The letter outlined the plan would end on  
12 September 2022 and provided information regarding the impact this would have on their 
credit files and other support Halifax offers.
Mr F and Mrs S complained to Halifax that they didnt know the impact entering the plan 
would have on their credit file and that it would result in them incurring more costs when 
trying to port their mortgage.
Halifax says it wouldve stated to Mr F and Mrs S at the time the plan was entered that the 
plan may affect their credit file and that there was no bank error.
Mr F and Mrs S were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr F and Mrs Ss concerns and reached the conclusion 
that Halifax had made them aware of a plan could have an impact on their credit file and so 
didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Mr F and Mrs S disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr F and Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems a consumer has experienced and see if the business has 
done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case Mrs S contacted Halifax for some help regarding their overdraft. It is not disputed 
that she entered into a plan with Halifax regarding their overdraft in June 2022. I can see the 
plan was confirmed in writing by Halifax at the time and that Mr F and Mrs S were notified 
when charges resumed on their overdraft again in November.
Mrs S says it wasnt made clear to them when they entered a plan on their overdraft that this 
would impact their credit file. Halifax have provided a copy of the letter sent to both Mr F and 
Mrs S.
In the section Something to think about in the letter confirming the plan it says: 
As youre experiencing financial difficulty, we have temporarily stopped charging you 
interest on this account.
Using an unarranged overdraft can affect your credit score and make it harder and 
more costly for you to borrow money.
It may also stay on your credit file for 6 years, but the impact on your credit score will 
reduce if you stay within your account limit.
An overdraft is there to help-out when you need to borrow in the short term. But if you 
use it often and dont reduce your balance, you could pay more in charges than other 
forms of borrowing.
I accept in the section of the letter outlined above it made reference to unarranged 
overdrafts, but it also made reference to staying within your limit  something that doesnt 
apply to unarranged overdrafts  and overdrafts in general. So I dont think the information 
regarding the impact on credit score was just related to unarranged overdrafts. Ultimately Mr 
F and Mrs S are responsible for the management of their account and I think it would be 
reasonable to assume that any plan entered into regarding their overdraft would be reflected 
on their credit file. 
Halifax has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. And from what Ive seen from 
Mr F and Mrs Ss credit files it shows that for a few months they were in an arrangement 
regarding their overdraft  which is an accurate reflection of what happened.
I accept that Mr F and Mrs S wouldve liked to have more information on how entering the 
plan would affect their credit file  but without access to all the information on Mr F and    
Mrs Ss financial affairs or commercially sensitive information around how businesses view 
this, this is not possible. And I cant say that knowing this information in advance wouldve 
made a material difference to what was reported on their credit file as clearly Mr F and Mrs S 
were having some financial difficulties with their overdraft  as that is why they entered into a 
plan. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Halifax did anything wrong. If 
offered Mr F and Mrs S assistance with their overdraft, they took up the offer of help, they 
were told this may affect their credit score and the information regarding the plan was 
reported on their credit files. So it follows I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr F and Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman