DRN-4222993
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-used the 
personal data of its Director.
Ms O, Gs Director, represents G in bringing its complaint.
What happened
Ms O, in her capacity as Director, is linked to Gs account with HSBC. The bank had 
previously enrolled her for its voice identification software, thats so she could pass security 
checks when dealing with Gs account. But Ms O wasnt happy with the bank using her data 
in such a way, especially without her explicit consent. So, she  on behalf of G  
complained.
 
That complaint was referred to our service and HSBC ultimately paid G £150 in 
compensation to resolve it, an amount deemed fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Unfortunately, after the conclusion of that previous complaint, Ms O was mistakenly re-
enrolled for voice identification. Shes told us how shes never given permission for the bank 
to identify her using her voice, and that she considers HSBCs actions to constitute repeated 
breaches of her personal data and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
 
G complained to HSBC again, and the bank accepted something had gone wrong. It paid G 
£50 in compensation for the inconvenience. G remained unhappy, so brought this complaint 
to our service for an independent review.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. He saw that, following its final response, 
HSBC had told our service that it wanted to increase its offer of compensation. The bank 
referenced Gs previous complaint, in which £150 compensation had been paid, and said it 
would match that offer again here given that amount had been accepted as fair and 
reasonable for the same problem. 
Our investigator acknowledged how a repeated error would be frustrating for Ms O 
personally, but he felt  given that the impact on G, the complainant here, was largely the 
same as the last time this happened  that HSBCs £150 offer was reasonable. 
To summarise Ms Os response, she said, on Gs behalf, that:
The previous award of £150 clearly wasnt sufficient in impact on the bank given the 
issue reoccurred. 
A figure of £8,000 is more appropriate given repeated breaches of personal data and 
associated data protection regulations.
G wanted to pay Ms O compensation for the personal distress caused as its 
employee. So, HSBC should cover that cost. 
Our investigator reconsidered, but he didnt change his mind. He reiterated his view that 
£150 was an appropriate level of compensation for G in the circumstances. He also said that 
HSBC had explained how the error reoccurred, and it had also shown that it had taken steps 
to ensure it didnt happen again.
 
G, though, maintained that HSBC hadnt done enough to put things right. So, as no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill say at the outset that I can certainly understand Ms Os frustration at whats happened 
here. This is, clearly, a significant issue for her and Im aware of just how seriously she takes 
data privacy. 
With that said, its very important to remember that this is Gs complaint  not Ms Os. What 
happened here did affect her directly, but the matter is linked to banking services which 
HSBC is providing to G, not Ms O as an individual. So, while I can surely appreciate how 
unhappy she is, I cant consider her personal distress, or inconvenience, as part of this 
complaint. Instead, I can only consider the impact HSBCs mistake had on G.
 
Its also important, I think, for me to stress that our service isnt here to punish a financial 
business. Were not the regulator, we dont police internal processes or how a business 
might operate generally. Thats the job of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Im aware that Ms O is following things up with them directly.
 
Similarly, it isnt the place of our service to determine whether a breach of GDPR has 
occurred. Thats for a court or the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. Again, 
I know Ms O is exploring that separately.
 
What Im looking at here is solely the circumstances of this complaint. And thinking about 
what happened, Ive not seen that G has been caused a specific financial loss as a 
consequence of what happened. From the information I have, it appears that the 
inconvenience caused to G is broadly the same as it was the last time this matter occurred. 
That being its Director, Ms O, was enrolled for a service she didnt consent to or want, and 
some time would consequently need to be spent sorting things out.
 
That would, of course, have been troublesome  particularly given this isnt the first time its 
happened. But the bank has since explained the steps its taken to prevent Ms O from being 
enrolled for voice identification again, Im also pleased to note that its identified how the 
error reoccurred and has demonstrated whats been done to rectify it.
 
Thats what Id expect it to do. And while I know Ms O thinks more compensation is deserved 
for a repeated error, to be more impactful on the bank, I must refer back to what Ive said 
about the remit of our service. Specifically, increasing a compensation award to act like a 
fine or punishment isnt within my power and nor, indeed, appropriate. So, while its far from 
ideal that the error was repeated, I dont think that in itself is reasonable basis to consider 
awarding more compensation, particularly if the overall impact to G was largely the same. 
Which, from what Ive seen, I think it was.
 Ill say here that Ive no doubt Ms O, in both her personal capacity and as Gs Director, has 
considerably less faith in the bank given whats happened previously  thats certainly 
understandable. But Ive no reason to doubt that HSBC hasnt done what its said it has, 
taking the necessary steps to prevent Ms O from being enrolled for voice identification yet 
again. The internal screenshots its provided to me support that.
 
Ms O has said that G itself is prepared to pay her compensation for whats happened here. 
She perceives that as a direct financial loss to her business and, as such, considers there an 
argument for HSBC to reimburse G. But I dont see things in quite the same way.
 
In my view, if G wishes to compensate Ms O, thats a totally separate matter between those 
two parties  one that is, although linked, a step removed from the banks error. Simply put, 
while HSBCs mistake may be a factor in Gs choice to offer its employee some 
compensation, I think thats an altogether separate conclusion for G to reach. So, on 
balance, Im not persuaded by Ms Os view that HSBC should reimburse G for any 
compensation it might decide to pay her.
 
To sum up then, I can surely appreciate the frustration at whats happened. Ms Os trust in 
HSBC is understandably damaged, so I certainly hope this issue doesnt reoccur given how 
clear shes made her position. Overall, though, for the reasons Ive explained above, I find 
that the bank has offered a reasonable amount of compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to G on this occasion.
As I understand it, HSBC has already paid G £50. So, I now require it to pay G a further 
£100  bringing the total amount of compensation to £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc has made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. HSBC Bank UK Plc should now pay G £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman