DRN-3668894
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold her a pension plan in
1988. In particular she says her attitude to risk wasnt assessed; the charges werent
disclosed; the investment vehicle wasnt discussed and she wasnt made aware of the
transfer penalties.
Mrs C has also complained that she was mis-sold an annuity in 1998. She says her health
wasnt assessed for an enhanced annuity.
What happened
I sent my decision explaining which parts of Mrs Cs complaint fell within our jurisdiction and 
I was able to consider on 2 August 2022. I said the complaint about the mis-sold pension 
plan in 1988 hadnt been referred to us within the relevant time limits. However the complaint 
about the mis-sold annuity had been referred in time, and therefore I was able to consider it.
The investigator had sent her assessment of the annuity complaint to both parties in January 
2022. She set out the background and circumstances to the complaint in that assessment.  
In brief, she said that the regulations about annuity sales had changed over the years, 
including about what information needed to be provided for non-advised sales. She said she 
therefore needed to consider what was expected of Sanlam in 1997/1998.
The investigator noted that Sanlam had said it hadnt provided advice about the annuity and 
it had been arranged on an execution only basis. The investigator said that Mrs C had 
contacted Sanlam in 1997 to enquire about taking her benefits early. And having looked at 
the content of the documentation that was available from the time she agreed that Sanlam 
hadnt provided advice on the annuity. 
The investigator said there werent as many rules or industry guidance covering what 
information a pension provider had to provide to its customers during an annuity sale at the 
time Mrs C bought her annuity. 
She said enhanced annuities had only just come to the market. She said the health 
conditions that were considered for an enhanced annuity were fairly limited, and not all 
pension providers offered them. But customers were able to buy annuities from other 
providers who may have offered enhanced rates for health conditions, or more favourable 
standard annuity rates. 
The investigator said the documentation sent to Mrs C referred to the OMO (Open Market 
Option  the possibility of buying her annuity from another provider). Under the heading 
What are my options? on the Key Features Document it said:
To buy your pension from another pension provider of your choice
The Key Features also said YOUR RIGHT TO THINK OVER YOUR OPTIONS WARNING. 
She said this page explained in more detail what the OMO was and said Any one company 
can offer you a wide choice of pension arrangements to suit your circumstances. 
The investigator was satisfied that Sanlam had given enough information to explain to Mrs C 
that she could buy an annuity with another company, and that another company may be able 
to provide different options based on her circumstances. She said the Key Features 
Document also explained what needed to be considered in making a choice:
You will need to take account of your personal, family and financial circumstancesand the
state of your health.
The investigator said she was satisfied Sanlam had mentioned that health was a factor to 
consider. And although Mrs C may have been eligible for an enhanced annuity, as Sanlam 
wasnt providing advice it wouldnt have known about Mrs Cs state of health at the time. She 
said Sanlams role was to provide Mrs C with her options, and then process what option she 
had selected. Taking into account all the evidence, she thought Sanlam had met its 
obligations at the time. Accordingly, she didnt recommend that Mrs Cs complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. She said, in summary, that she was in a 
vulnerable situation when she approached Sanlam about obtaining additional income in 
1997 by accessing her pension. She had been very ill and off work for many months. 
Mrs C said the annuity amount of £330.49 with no inflation protection was extremely low for 
1998 (5%). She said Sanlam were the financial experts who she trusted and understood 
would act in her best interests. 
The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Sanlam had been aware 
that Mrs C was in ill health at the time. And the documentation that had been provided to Mrs 
C set out the important details which needed to be considered.
Mrs C said she specifically told Sanlam about why she needed to take her pension and so it 
was fully aware of her health. She said it was also entirely reasonable to assume that 
Sanlam would have asked her about the reason why she was attempting to surrender the 
policy. She said if Sanlam had taken into account her poor state of health the resulting 
annuity would have been higher.  She said there was a lot more that Sanlam could and 
should have done to treat her fairly as its customer at the time the annuity was sold. 
What Ive decided  and why   
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
As the investigator explained, the requirements for what information pension providers need 
to give to their customers when they are buying an annuity has changed over time. 
Mrs C has said that the firm was aware of her health but didnt seek an assessment of it for 
the annuity calculation. And it didnt make it clear that she could seek a better deal in the 
wider market.
Im satisfied that the documentation sent to Mrs C prior to her buying the annuity set out that 
there was an option called the Open Market Option (OMO), and that this was to buy a 
pension from another provider of her choice. The investigator referred to the relevant 
information contained in the literature, and I note the section headed:Your right to think over your options
Warning 
also said:
What is the Open Market Option
It is a facility that allows you to approach any other company for a pension quote
This is because no one company can always quote the best annuity rates in all 
circumstances
Your pension fund may buy you a higher pension income with some companies than 
with others, depending partly on the pension options you choose
If you buy your pension with a new company, rather than the one which now holds 
your pension fund, the fund will be transferred from one to the other.
I think Sanlam explained the OMO in understandable terms. In my view it explained the 
option of looking elsewhere to seek a better deal, saying it may be possible to buy a higher 
pension with another company, which I think is a key point. It didnt specifically explain 
enhanced annuities or that they might provide a better rate. But there werent any rules 
specifically requiring it at the time. This may be because, as the investigator explained, the 
enhanced annuity market wasnt a mature one. The health or lifestyle conditions they 
provided for were limited. And generally speaking, annuitants could achieve a competitive 
rate compared to enhanced annuities through the OMO  by shopping around. 
Given Mrs C was told she could get a better deal through another company but this didnt 
prompt her to look into those other options, I dont think it necessarily follows that Mrs C 
would have looked at alternative providers for enhanced annuities even if the firm had 
specifically mentioned it.  
Mrs C has said she was vulnerable at the time she arranged the annuity. She had been 
suffering from ill health, and she has also said English wasnt her first language and the firm 
took advantage of this. 
The annuity was arranged over twenty years ago. Mrs C had approached the firm as she 
wanted to take an income from her pension. There is only limited documentation available. 
And clearly its difficult for me to conclude with any reasonable degree of certainty exactly 
what was said at the time. From what I can see, the firm only provided information to Mrs C 
about how to obtain her benefits and the options available. And it recommended that she 
seek financial advice before making her decision.
Like the investigator, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the firm gave advice. Or that it 
was aware of Mrs Cs health, or that she might have problems understanding the 
documentation it had sent to her.  As it wasnt providing advice it wasnt obliged to consider 
Mrs Cs circumstances. So I dont think it would obviously have discussed Mrs Cs reasons 
for wanting the pension, or her ill health, as Mrs C has suggested. 
I appreciate that Mrs C will be very disappointed with my findings. Particularly as she was in 
poor health at the time, and considers the firm should have done more to help her in making 
her decision. However Mrs C could have sought financial advice about her options. And I 
have to consider the matter in light of the standards and rules in force when Mrs C bought 
her annuity, and in the context of the obligations on the firm in providing information; not the 
higher standards required if the firm had provided advice. Having done so, and taking everything into account, Ive not been persuaded that the firm 
failed to reach the standards required of it in the particular circumstances of the case.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman