DRN-3497603
The complaint
Ms M and Mr W complain about Santander UK Plc and the service they received when they 
amended the direct debit amount on their credit card account.
The account being complained about is in Ms Ms sole name, with Mr W an additional card 
holder. Im aware both Ms M and Mr W have provided comments throughout the complaint 
process, with Mr W stating he is now acting as representative. For ease of reference, I will 
refer to the comments made, and actions taken, by both Ms M and Mr W as Ms M 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Ms M holds a credit card account provided by Santander. On 3 June 2021, Ms M amended 
her direct debit associated to the account online, changing the payment taken each month 
from the minimum payment to the full outstanding balance. After completing this process, Ms 
M received a notification from Santander confirming the change in direct would not take 
place until it had been confirmed on her credit card statement.
Ms M assumed she had changed the direct debit in time for the next payment to take the full 
outstanding balance. But on 25 June, only the minimum payment was taken. So, Ms M was 
charged a total interest amount of £7.19 on her next statement, which she was unhappy 
about. Because of this, she raised a complaint.
Ms M didnt think Santander made it reasonably clear that her next payment taken by direct 
debit wouldnt be for the full outstanding balance. Nor did she think it was fair for Santander 
not to action this change, as it had been requested 22 days before the next payment was 
due. Ms M thought this represented Santander acting outside of the Direct Debit Guarantee 
(DDG) and so, she wanted the £7.19 interest shed been charged to be refunded to her. And 
she wanted Santander to change their process to make their direct debit amendment 
process clearer to prevent similar situations arising in the future.
Santander responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought the information 
provided to Ms M at the time the amendment was requested online made it clear the change 
in amount wouldnt take place until it was confirmed in her next statement. So, they didnt 
think theyd acted unfairly when charging Ms M interest, as she had an outstanding purchase 
balance remaining on her account. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Ms M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the information 
Santander provided made it reasonably clear that the change wouldnt come into effect until 
it was confirmed on the next statement. So, they thought Santander had acted fairly when 
taking the minimum payment in June and, as this payment didnt clear Ms Ms outstanding 
balance, they thought Santander acted fairly when charging the interest. Our investigator 
also explained our service was unable to comment on, or ask Santander to change, the 
direct debit amendment process they follow as this would be the role of the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And finally, our investigator thought Santander 
had acted within the rules of the DDG. So, they didnt think Santander needed to do anything 
more.
Ms M didnt agree. She maintained her belief that Santander had acted unfairly and that the 
direct debit amendment shouldve been completed before the payment in June due to the 
length of time Santander had to process it. And she explained her belief that the rules set by 
the DDG were vague and open to unfair interpretation by businesses, which she didnt think 
was reasonable. Ms M reiterated her belief that Santander had failed to act in her best 
interests and so, she maintained her belief that the interest should be refunded, and 
Santanders process changed. As Ms M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms M. I appreciate Ms M 
amended her direct debit to take the full outstanding balance to avoid paying interest. And I 
recognise she did this 22 days before she expected her payment to be taken so, I can 
understand why she believed shed processed this amendment in a reasonable amount of 
time. Because of this, I can understand the upset and frustration Ms M wouldve felt when 
she realised only the minimum payment had been taken and that she had in fact been 
charged interest. And I can appreciate why she may hold Santander responsible for this 
upset and feel as though they acted unfairly.
But for me to say Santander should refund the interest charged to Ms Ms account, Id need 
to be satisfied that they made an error that led to this interest being applied. Or, if no actual 
error occurred, that it was still unfair for them to apply this interest. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. I understand Ms M is unhappy with the fairness of the 
process Santander have put in place for direct debit amendments and would like this to be 
revised and changed. But our service is unable to consider, or comment upon, a business 
process as this would be for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to 
investigate and direct. So, I wont be commenting on the process Santander has in place 
itself.
But what I can consider is whether I think Santander acted fairly when arranging the direct 
debit amendment. And to do this, Ive thought about the information they provided to Ms M 
through this process and whether I think this was reasonable.
I can see Ms Ms June statement was issued on 2 June and this stated the minimum 
payment of £5.22 would be taken on or immediately after 25 June. So, this statement had 
already been produced, and the direct debit payment set, when Ms M amended her direct 
debit instructions the following day.
Ive seen after Ms M had completed the amendment, she was presented with the following notice:
Please note your Direct Debit will not take effect until the date is confirmed on your Credit 
Card Statement.
As Ms Ms June statement was dated for the day before, I think this information made it 
reasonably clear that the amendment would not take place until Ms Ms next statement was 
produced, which was in July. So, I dont think I can say Santander have made an error when 
continuing to take the agreed minimum payment as stated in Junes statement, as the direct 
debit amendment hadnt been confirmed in Julys statement by this point. 
And as this minimum payment didnt clear Ms Ms outstanding balance, I cant say that 
Santander acted unfairly when they applied interest to this balance, in line with the terms of 
the credit account Ms M held. So, I dont think I can fairly say this interest should be 
refunded. 
I recognise Ms M thinks 22 days to process an amendment is an unfair amount of time. But 
there isnt a set amount of time a bank must process an amendment within. And it only took 
22 days because Ms M made the amendment on the day after her June statement was 
issued. Had Ms M made the amendment later in the month, her position wouldve remained 
the same as the change confirmation was reliant on the production of Ms Ms next 
statement. So, I cant Santander have acted unfairly here.
Im also aware Ms M feels as though this delay is evidence of Santander failing to act with 
the terms of the DDG. But I dont agree. The DDG explains any change must be notified to 
the customer within 10 working days. In this case, Santander notified Ms M of the request on 
the same day, as they accepted the request and explained how it would be processed.
The DDG also states Santander must confirm the amount and date of the change. Again, I 
think Santander did this on the day of the request, as Ms M was already aware the direct 
debit was changed to the full balance, which can vary, and that the date would be on the 
date of her next statement. So, I dont think I can say Santander acted unfairly, or outside of 
the terms of the DDG. Because of the above, I dont think Santander need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms M was hoping for. And I recognise this wont address 
Ms Ms concerns about the fairness of Santanders process or the clarity of the terms within 
the DDG and their openness for interpretation. But as Ive explained above, Im unable to 
comment on or ask Santander to change their business process, as they are able to set their 
own processes as part of their autonomy to make their own commercial decisions. And our 
service is set up to investigate individual complaints. We are not able to investigate or 
comment upon the terms laid out within the DDG. So, these havent impacted the decision 
Ive reached on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman