DRN-4278102
The complaint
Mrs H complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions she says she didnt make or 
authorise.
During this complaint Mrs H has been supported by a friend, who Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
In late December 2016, Mrs H received a pay out from a life insurance policy following the 
death of her son. The money was paid into her account held with another bank. Within days, 
£45,000 of the money had been transferred to an acquaintance of Mrs Hs who I will refer to 
as K. K was Mrs Hs neighbour.
On 9 January 2017, K paid £30,000 of the money back into Mrs Hs TSB account. Mrs H 
says she gave K £5,000 to start a business but didnt agree to give her any other money or 
allow her to use her bank account. At some point, Mrs H and K stopped being friends but 
Mrs H hasnt been able to say when or why this happened.
This service has been provided with a copy of a police report from an investigation that 
ended in August 2019. The investigating officers notes say that they had been in contact 
with Mrs H for around 12 months and that a suspect had been interviewed. The police 
concluded that this was a civil dispute and not a criminal fraud matter. It said the 
circumstances suggested a dispute over an amount of money given to one person by 
another, some significant time after they ceased to associate with each other. The 
investigating officer noted Mrs H had said shed purchased things for K and had given them 
money in the past.
TSB says the first time the matter was raised with the bank was in December 2020. It says 
Mrs H queried payments totalling £16,000 made in June 2016, but the bank was unable to 
identify any transactions that matched what Mrs H said.
Mrs H obtained copy statements and disputed transactions made between January and July
2017. But TSB declined the claim for a refund of these transactions in October 2021
because they had been reported too late.
With Mr Bs assistance, Mrs H contacted this service and we started a complaint on Mrs Hs
behalf. TSB issued its final response in November 2022. It said there had not been a bank
error and it was not obliged to refund transactions that took place more than 13 months ago.
Mr B asked us to investigate. He said the disputed spending on Mrs Hs account was
uncharacteristic for her and indicated that it wasnt her using the account. He pointed out
that there were transactions made to PayPal when Mrs H doesnt know anything about
computers and transactions appearing to be made in Australia when Mrs H has never been
there. He said that Mrs H hardly owns anything and has nothing to show for this money. He
explained that shed not had the benefit of it herself and that she was really struggling
financially now.
Mr B says Mrs H is a vulnerable adult that had been taken advantage of by a blatant
confidence trickster. He thought it was likely Mrs H was being coerced and that video or
photo evidence would prove beyond doubt who was really making these withdrawals.
When TSB provided its complaint papers to us, it said the larger disputed cash withdrawals
were made at the branch counter with Mrs Hs card. It said Mrs H made regular visits to the
branch and was known to the staff. It said undisputed purchases were made around the
same time as the transactions that are now in dispute. It noted that Mrs H raised a dispute in
May 2019 for a £25 payment to a wine company, so it felt she was monitoring her account.
As such, it said it was not unreasonable to have expected Mrs H to notice the disputed
transactions sooner than she did.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but did not recommend that it should be upheld.
He agreed the branch staff would have most likely been familiar with Mrs H given that she
did most of her banking through the branch. He didnt think it was likely that Mrs H had been
impersonated on numerous occasions. He pointed out the banks notes suggest she had
made appointments to discuss her savings accounts and her direct debit payments around
the same time as the transactions that are now in dispute. He thought it was more likely than
not that the disputed transfers and cash withdrawals were made by Mrs H.
He explained hed reviewed the police report and it was difficult to understand the exact
nature of the relationship between Mrs H and K. Overall, he didnt think he could fairly
criticise TSB for processing the disputed payments. He said Mrs H appeared to have been
managing her finances independently at the time and was a regular user of the branch. He
didnt think the way Mrs Hs accounts ran should have alerted TSB to the possibility that she
was at risk of financial harm from fraud or economic abuse.
Mr B was very disappointed. He said Mrs H isnt a liar and that she is not mentally
incapacitated. He wanted to know if we had seen photographic evidence for any of the large
cash withdrawals. Our Investigator explained that we would not expect TSB to be able to
provide footage or still images from one of its branches this many years after the payments
in dispute took place. He suggested that Mrs H had displayed some confusion to the police
over events.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the bank should have done more to protect Mrs H and wanted to
know where the money went. He said the bank statements prove third party involvement and
TSB did not take measures to protect a vulnerable adult from being manipulated.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was put forwards for decision.
My further investigation
When the complaint was referred to me, I had further questions for both sides.
I contacted TSB and explained that the transactions Mr B had highlighted go wider than
transactions made in the branch and included cash machine withdrawals and other retail
spending. I pointed out that Mr B had explained that Mrs H is not computer literate and says
she would not have been able to buy these things online herself.
I explained the difficult circumstances that Mrs H is facing and how stressful this matter has
been and continues to be for her. I asked the bank to consider Mrs Hs vulnerability as it was
unclear whether it had previously been aware of the extent of her situation.
TSB said it was sorry to learn of Mrs Hs current financial pressures and the impact this
situation had had and continues to have on her mental health. It said it was not aware of any
vulnerability at the time of the disputed transactions. The bank explained that it had tried tocontact some of the merchants Mr B had challenged online payments for, but it wasnt
confident that it would receive a positive response as the transactions happened over six
years ago. It said there was no way now of proving what happened to the money. It
concluded by saying the details of the complaint are too vague so there was nothing further
it could helpfully add.
I also contacted Mr B. I explained that this case presents some challenges because of how
long ago the transactions in dispute happened. I explained that even if the transactions on
the face of it do not appear to be things that Mrs H would have been able to use or benefit
from, that does not automatically mean that TSB must refund her.
I explained that the relevant regulations say that TSB only has to refund transactions that
Mrs H hasn't authorised. If Mrs H had agreed that K could use her payment tools such as
her card, any transactions that K goes on to make are considered to be authorised by Mrs H,
even if K went further than what Mrs H had agreed and in circumstances they had not
discussed.
I asked Mr B whether he knew Mrs H well at the time the transactions in dispute took place
or whether it was only later that hed become friends with her. I asked him what he
understood the nature of the dynamic between Mrs J and K to be as in some documents K
was referred to as Mrs H's carer and in other documents a neighbour.
I asked Mr B what K did for Mrs H, as there was a mention that K had a mobility car for her
and the general impression from the information I currently had was that they had once been
close. I asked Mr B why and when Mrs H fell out with K. I also asked if he knew why K had
transferred £30,000 back into Mrs Hs TSB account.
Mr B explained that hed first met Mrs H in early 2018 and she has always maintained that K
befriended her and then tricked her. He said that Mrs H did not need a carer then and does
not need one now. He describes her as robust and determined. He suggested K fabricated
the carer status to give the situation credibility. He said that K and Mrs H had spent time
together, such as going shopping and having coffee, but he felt that it wasnt a true
friendship and that K had preyed on Mrs H when she was vulnerable.
Mr B said Mrs H and K fell out when Mrs H found out via a third party that K had been
boasting about having taken her money to buy a car and holidays.
Mr B said he understood that 2017 was a long time ago. He said that the police had not 
investigated properly, and it should have been obvious what had happened. Mr B said Mrs H
has absolutely nothing to show for this money and it has been spent by someone else. He
hoped that I could help.
My provisional decision 
On 20 April 2023, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold 
this complaint. My findings are replicated below and form part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gathering evidence in this matter is particularly challenging. It concerns events that
happened approximately seven years ago. Although Mrs H has had some direct contact with
this service, she has been very upset during those interactions, making it hard for her to tell
us in her own words exactly what happened. Theres not much common ground about
exactly what happened or how it might have happened.Mr B has tried his best to be as helpful as he can, but he didnt know Mrs H at the time the
events complained about, so hes only been able to surmise based on what hes assumed or
has been told. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as it is
here), I reach my findings on balance  in other words, what I consider is more likely than
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It's important for me to be clear that my role isnt to determine whether Mrs H has been the
victim of a crime. My role is to determine whether TSB is entitled to hold Mrs H responsible
for the transactions in dispute. The transactions Mr B is concerned about include cash
machine withdrawals, online purchases and transactions made in branch at the counter.
Did Mrs H authorise the disputed transactions?
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 which applied
at the time the disputed payments were made. The regulations explain that a payment
transaction can only be regarded as being authorised if the payer has given their consent to
the execution of the payment transaction.
This means that if Mrs H made the disputed transactions herself or agreed they could be
made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask TSB to refund them. Mr B has explained that
Mrs H has nothing to show for the large amount of money that she received and that some
of the transactions appear to be for items that were of no benefit to her. But what hes said
doesnt automatically mean the transactions are unauthorised and they should be refunded.
It's not surprising that TSB hasnt been able to provide full records for all of the transactions
because of how long ago the events happened. But it has said that Mrs Hs card was not
reported as lost or stolen at any point and that it considers, on balance, that Mrs Hs
payment tools such as her card and PIN were used to make the payments now in dispute.
It seems likely that Mrs H was present when the transactions in branch were made. From
what I have seen in the banks notes, Mrs H attended the branch regularly, so I think its
more likely than not she was known to the bank staff. But I have not been able to establish
with any certainty if the other transactions Mr B has challenged were made by her. Mrs H
has said that K was acting as her carer, but shes not explained exactly what K did for her or
why that support was needed. But this means it is possible that some of the activity on
Mrs Hs account, although not carried out by her, will be activity that she has given her
consent to. Its possible K may have abused her trust and exceeded what Mrs H had agreed
to by using her card and PIN to buy things Mrs H didnt know about or things that she
wouldnt have wanted to buy herself. If thats what happened, even though Mrs H didnt
agree to or know about these payments, providing the third party with the card and PIN 
would, in effect, authorise the further spending.
If Mrs H had given K her authority to use her bank account, or shared her payment tools
such as her card and PIN with K, TSB is entitled to treat the resulting account activity as
being authorised by Mrs H, even if Mrs H didnt physically make the transactions herself or
give her explicit permission for them. If it looks to the bank like the payment transaction has
been authorised by the payer, the payments made can be considered authorised. This is the
case even if the third party goes on to spend more than was agreed and in circumstances
that the account holder had not discussed.
Mr B says K manipulated Mrs H. Hes said its clear Mrs H has been defrauded and hes
painted a picture of Ks character. But I dont have the power to compel K to provide me with
evidence, or to cross-examine them or have them cross-examined in order to establish theirtrue intentions. In addition to this, I am not sure what Mrs Hs intentions were. It is broadly
accepted that Mrs H gave K some money to start a business, but I have not been able to
establish the full extent of the relationship or any agreement that may have been in place
between them. Its possible that Mrs H felt differently about the payments at the time they
were made. The information from the police report suggests that Mrs H had made gifts to K.
It says: the victim has confirmed that she had purchased her several items and had
gifted/given her money.
I am also mindful that the investigating police officer said: the evidence suggests the person
making the withdrawals from this account was the victim. I conclude from this, that no
fraudulent activity has occurred on this TSB account. I feel able to place some weight on
this because there was potentially more evidence available to the police at that time than is
currently available to me. From what I can see, a police officer had been in regular contact
with Mrs H for around a year before August 2019. It is also clear that both Mrs H and K were
interviewed as part of the police investigation into the allegations made.
From what has been said and provided so far, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs H
authorised the disputed spending.
Should TSB have done more to protect Mrs H from financial harm?
Theres no question that TSB has responsibilities to protect their customers  especially 
older and vulnerable customers  from financial harm.
Ive thought about the transactions that are in dispute and whether there were any reasons 
why it would have been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances to have expected 
TSB to have double checked payment instructions with Mrs H before allowing the payments 
to be made. Some of the disputed spending is similar in nature to undisputed transactions, 
so it wouldnt have necessarily stood out as out of character and unusual to the bank at the 
time. In addition, the banks notes show that Mrs H regularly went into branch to discuss her 
accounts. Around the time of some of the disputed transactions, the bank helped Mrs H to 
review the direct debits she was paying. I think its likely these conversations would have 
involved at least some basic conversation about the way Mrs Hs account was running and 
her general account use.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can fairly
criticise TSB for processing the disputed payments. I dont think the transactions should
have aroused suspicion that Mrs H was being taken advantage of, or that TSB missed
clear indicators that Mrs H was at risk of financial harm. I can only compel TSB to refund
money if I think it is responsible for the loss incurred. But as I dont think TSB should
have done anything more in light of the information available to it at the relevant time, I cant
hold the bank responsible and direct it to return the money thats been sent.
Mrs Hs circumstances
This is a very difficult situation and I do not underestimate the emotional burden Mrs H is
carrying. There is no legal obligation for TSB to reimburse the funds. But it remains good
practice for TSB to investigate what has happened and to consider whether it would be
appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case basis, especially in
situations where its customer is vulnerable and it is being alleged they have been the victim
of financial abuse. TSB has considered the difficult situation Mrs H is facing but concluded
not to do anything further in this particular case. I have to be fair and reasonable to both
sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel TSB to do more when the relevant law, rules,
codes and good practice do not say that it should.Overall
I cannot even begin to imagine how difficult things have been for Mrs H in recent years.
Whilst I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling that there has been an injustice, I have not seen
any persuasive evidence to show that Mrs H was being exploited or coerced into agreeing K
could spend her money when she didnt really want this to happen. From what I currently
have to consider, I cant be as sure as I would need to be what went on, or that Mrs H did
not consent to these payments. Given all of this uncertainty, I am unable to fairly ask TSB to
refund the money thats in dispute.
Responses to my provisional decision 
TSB did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr B confirmed hed received the provisional decision. He was disappointed that Id not 
reached the outcome Mrs H was hoping for, but appreciated that so much time had passed it 
was difficult to establish what had happened. He explained that hed lost touch with Mrs H. 
As we were unable to reach Mrs H and she had not seen my provisional decision, we closed 
the complaint at that stage. 
Around a month later, Mrs H called us directly and explained shed not been well. She said 
she had proof that K was caring for her because she paid the mobility company for a car. 
She explained she did not authorise any other payments to K and that the money had been 
stolen out of her bank account and that her neighbour could tell us this too. Mrs H said she 
had never been to Australia or used PayPal. Mrs H explained that she was having trouble at 
her home, but the Police wouldnt do anything. Our Investigator wasnt sure if Mrs H had 
seen my provisional decision, so he sent her a copy. 
Mrs H was very upset by my provisional decision. In summary, she said she didnt see how 
I could make a decision because I did not know her. Mrs H said we should have interviewed 
K and that wed let her get away with it. She explained that K had debt collectors come to 
her home and that she had been in trouble with the council. She told us that K had done a 
moonlight flit late at night so she was not seen. Mrs H was particularly concerned that 
another neighbour, A, had provided a written statement to Mr B that he in turn provided to 
us. Mrs H said A never knew K. Mrs H told us her home had been broken into whilst she was 
in hospital, leaving her frightened and desperate for money so she could leave. Mrs H said 
that she was not going to give this case up and she really needed this money back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the recordings of the calls that Mrs H has had with our Investigator recently 
and things have not been easy for her. Shes got a lot on her plate, and I do understand that 
this situation has been and continues to be very upsetting. I have heard how strongly she 
feels about the matter. 
Mrs Hs position is that she has been taken advantage of financially. But my role isnt to 
determine whether Mrs H has been the victim of a crime. My role is to determine whether 
TSB is entitled to hold Mrs H responsible for the disputed spending that occurred. To do this, 
I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.The difficulty in this case is I am still not able to establish exactly what happened here, even 
taking into account everything Mrs H has said following my provisional decision. Much of 
what Mrs H has said I was already aware of before I issued my provisional decision. In my 
provisional decision, I outlined how Mrs H was known to the branch and how she attended 
regularly at the time when the disputed transactions were being made to discuss her 
accounts, making it less likely to me that she wasnt aware of these transactions. And Im 
afraid that I am unable to put much weight on the details Mrs H has provided to support that 
her banking credentials were stolen. Shes suggested that a neighbour that lives next door to 
her could tell us, but that would not be strong enough evidence to confirm that Mrs Hs 
banking credentials specifically were taken, nor does it shed sufficient light on who they were 
taken by, when they were taken and why. 
Mrs H is concerned about a letter that was provided to us by Mr B when he was helping her 
with the complaint. This letter was from a neighbour, A. I can confirm that I have read As 
comments, but I have not been able to place any weight on them. As letter explained that 
As daughters friend had overheard a conversation between K and Ks mother at some 
point. But this information is not something that I can substantiate, and nor does it come 
from As direct knowledge or experience. 
Mrs H has highlighted transactions to PayPal and to merchants such as LAO Australia and 
LM Australia as proof that her money has been stolen. Shes explained that she has never 
been to Australia and these transactions were not made by her. The transactions happened 
a long time ago, so I am not surprised that the bank hasnt been able to obtain any further 
details about these specific merchants now. But looking at Mrs Hs statements, I am not 
persuaded that her debit card was used in Australia. This is because the transactions were 
debited in Pounds Sterling not Australian Dollars, and because Mrs Hs card is used for 
undisputed transactions in the UK on the same days.
Whilst Mrs H has provided details about Ks character and conduct to support her view that 
K is not trustworthy, it remains the case that it is not clear what the dynamic between Mrs H 
and K truly was at the time the transactions in dispute were made. Mrs H does not dispute 
that she obtained a mobility car for K and that she gave K money for specific purposes. 
Given that Mrs H has at times described K as her carer, it does not seem implausible to me 
that she might have given K authority to make transactions. I have not seen enough 
evidence to be as sure as I would need to be that K stole from Mrs H, especially considering 
the information provided by the police report which I included in my provisional decision and 
is summarised above. On balance, I still think it is fair and reasonable for TSB to hold Mrs H 
responsible for the disputed spending.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mrs H. I have not reached this position lightly and I am 
especially mindful that the loss of this money at a time when shes struggling to make ends 
meet will not be easy to accept. But for the reasons I have explained in both my provisional 
decision and my additional commentary above, I am unable to fairly conclude that TSB 
should take responsibility for the loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman