DRN-1458032
 
The complaint
The complaint, in summary, concerns TSB Bank Plc's failure to collect the monthly fees on 
Company Ls current account for a period, and then how it dealt with that issue. The 
complaint is brought on behalf of the company by its director Mr L.
What happened
Briefly, TSB Bank Plc failed to charge the monthly fees on Company Ls current account 
from December 2018 to June 2019, totalling about £1,100. This was due to a technical error 
on part of the bank.
The bank wrote to Mr L in August 2019 to alert him of the problem. It told him that it intended 
to collect this amount over three months starting October 2019. He was advised to contact 
the bank if he had any concerns about this. 
Mr L contacted the bank and asked that the arrears were recovered over twelve months 
instead of three.  He also proposed that the dues were reduced by half. The call handler 
asked whether there would be any financial detriment to the company in having to pay the 
fees over three months. Mr L took offence to this and felt that the bank ought to have 
considered his request irrespective of the financial position of the company.
The bank did not agree to his request for a lengthier repayment timescale. It said that this 
was because Mr L had decided not to explain his financial circumstances which might make 
this necessary, and also on the basis of available evidence that showed the arrears could be 
paid by the company in the required timescale. It however offered £25 for any distress and 
inconvenience Mr L may have experienced in this regard. Mr L was not happy with the 
banks response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that the £100 
compensation sought by Mr L is fair in this instance. He said, in summary:
The failure to collect monthly fees on time has caused inconvenience to the company 
and to Mr L. It was appropriate that the bank acknowledged its error and apologised 
for it.
The bank did not act unreasonably when it declined Mr Ls request to waive the fees. 
The company did use the account during the period in question and so the fees were 
due. 
However, Mr Ls request for a lengthier repayment timescale was reasonable. The 
bank failed to recover the fees over six months and then it attempted to recover it 
within three months.  Whilst it was not inappropriate to enquire about any financial 
detriment in having to repay in three months, the bank could have been more flexible 
to come up with a solution that was satisfactory to Mr L given that it was its fault in 
the first instance.  
Taking everything into account, the banks offer to pay £25 is not enough to reflect 
the original error, which ultimately led to the inconvenience which Mr L has stressed this had caused.  Mr L has suggested £100 as compensation and in circumstances 
this is a fair amount given whats happened.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusion essentially for the same reasons. 
The problem arose because of banks error. And it was a matter of inconvenience to the 
company that it had to pay  six months dues in three months, irrespective of its financial 
position.
Mr L wanted the recovery to be spread over 12 months and wanted to reduce the dues by 
half. I can understand why the bank was not willing to do this. As explained by 
the investigator, the company used the account during the period. Also, it was notified of the 
fees beforehand, though the bank failed to collect them.
I also do not think that it was inappropriate for the bank to try to ascertain whether there 
would have been any financial detriment to the company in having to repay the dues in three 
months. 
However, I agree with the investigator that the bank could have been more responsive to the 
request by Mr L. It was the banks error initially that caused this problem. Following this, 
the bank had unilaterally decided to collect the fees in three months. And it was the bank 
that asked Mr L to contact it if he had any issues with this. So when Mr L contacted and 
requested a lengthier repayment timescale, even if it did not agree for a twelve-month 
period, it could have been more receptive to his request and engaged with him to find a 
solution rather than insist that the company demonstrate financial detriment.
So, taking everything into account, I agree with the investigator that a payment of £100 is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order TSB Bank plc to pay £100 
(including the £25 it had offered) to Company L for the inconvenience this matter has 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020. 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman