DRN-2020329
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent money to her 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about the six instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mrs M between 
July 2014 and January 2015. A summary of Mrs Ms borrowing history with Lending Stream 
is set out below.
Loan Date Amount 
1 11-Jul-14 £100
2 31-Jul-14 £200
3 23-Aug-14 £510
4 17-Nov-14 £150
5 29-Nov-14 £500
6 02-Jan-15 £200
Mrs M says that at the time of the loans she was in financial difficulty with loans outstanding 
with another short term loan provider as well as other credit providers. She says this would 
have been clear from her credit file.
Lending Stream says that before the loans were provided it carried out affordability and 
credit checks. It said that the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold loans one to five but said that by loan six Mrs M had three 
loans outstanding with Lending Stream and this ought to have alerted it to the possibility that 
Mrs M was struggling to manage her money and was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay 
this loan.
Mrs M responded to our adjudicators view saying that at the time of the loans with Lending 
Stream she also had loans outstanding with another short term loan provider and that she 
approached Lending Stream when the other loan provider refused to lend to her.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs Ms first loan was for £100 and repayable over six instalments with the highest 
repayment being £54. Given the size of the repayment compared to Mrs Ms monthly 
income I didnt find it unreasonable that his loan was considered affordable.
Mrs Ms second loan was taken out while the first loan was still outstanding. 
Combining the repayments due under Mrs Ms first and second loans resulted in 
payments reaching just over £150. However, as this was only Mrs Ms second loan 
with Lending Stream and the combined repayments were still relatively small 
compared to her income and they appeared affordable based on her disposable 
income. So, I didnt find that Lending Stream did anything wrong by providing this 
loan.
Loan three was for a much larger amount and was taken out less than a month after 
loan two and while both loans one and two were outstanding. This meant that 
Mrs Ms scheduled monthly repayments increased. Given this, I thought that Lending 
Stream should have carried out further checks to ensure that the lending was 
sustainable.
Having looked through the information Mrs M provided regarding other short term 
loans and noting her comments about these, I didnt find that I had enough to say 
that had Lending Stream carried out further checks at this time regarding Mrs Ms 
short term loan commitments it would have seen she had other loans outstanding.
Mrs M repaid loans one and three on 10 November 2014 and then took out loan four 
on 17 November. By this time, I thought that Lending Stream should have been 
concerned that Mrs M was having problems managing her money. She had taken out 
the first three loans within a period of less than two months and then taken out a 
further loan a week after repaying loans one and two. I thought this should have 
raised concerns that Mrs M was borrowing in order to fill a hole caused by her 
previous loan repayments.
Mrs M then took out a fifth loan less than two weeks after her fourth loan and while 
loan two and four were outstanding. Between loans four and five, Mrs M had also 
taken out two loans with another short term loan provider. This further supported the 
point above that Mrs M was having problems managing her money.
By loan six, Mrs Ms pattern of borrowing suggested she was persistently reliant on 
short term loans. She had taken out six loans in less than six months and was taking 
out new loans while existing loans were outstanding or shortly after repaying existing 
debt.
Overall, I didnt think that loans 4 to 6 should have been considered sustainably 
affordable.
Lending Stream accepted my provisional decision and provided a calculation to show the 
refund payable to Mrs M. It calculated the refund of interest and charges on loans 4 to 6 as 
£715.69 (£520.60 for interest paid, £20.00 for fees paid, £218.86 for 8% annual interest, 
minus £43.77 for 20% mandatory tax withholding in line with HMRC regulations). It said 
there was an outstanding balance of £686.85 with it. It offset the refund against the 
outstanding amount and said a refund of £28.84 would be paid.
Mrs M said the information was incorrect as she was only paying off two remaining loans 
and the balance she owed was £544.36 and not £686.85 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As the outcome of my provisional decision was accepted my decision remains that I uphold 
this complaint regarding loans 4 to 6.
Mrs M has provided evidence from the party that previously managed her loans which said 
that the balances on her loans before they were returned to the original lender were £85.96 
and £458.40, giving a total of £544.36.
Given the information provided by Mrs M, we have contacted Lending Stream in order to 
confirm the amounts due, but no response has been received. Therefore, I find it reasonable 
that in the event further evidence to the contrary isnt provided, the balances provided by 
Mrs M are used in Lending Streams calculation.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs M, Lending Stream should:
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans four to six and treat any 
payments Mrs M made towards these loans as payments towards the capital;
if payments have been made above the original capital borrowed, then these 
overpayments should be refunded with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to loans four 
and five (once repaid);
the number of loans taken at loan six means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about loans six should be completely removed from Mrs M's 
credit file (once repaid);
if certain loans have been sold, Lending Stream should buy them back or otherwise 
ensure the above is complied with.
Lending Stream can offset any refund against the outstanding capital balance on the loans. 
In making this calculation it should take into account the information provided by Mrs M 
regarding the two loans she has said remain outstanding (total amount due £544.36). In the 
event these balances arent used in its calculation it should provide Mrs M with evidence to 
support its calculation.  
* HM Revenue and Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in regard to loans 4 to 6 and I 
require Gain Credit LLC to put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020. Jane Archer
Ombudsman