DRN-4462007
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds response to a claim made 
under her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs M had a home insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. This covered her home and its 
contents but also included additional home emergency cover.
On 23 November 2022, Mrs M contacted Admiral to notify them she had a problem. There 
had been heavy rainfall in the area for several days and damp patches were appearing on 
the walls inside Mrs Ms home  she assumed due to a leak in her roof.
Admiral said theyd assess the claim under Mrs Ms home insurance, but also told Mrs M her 
home emergency cover meant theyd provide a contractor to carry out a temporary fix to the 
roof.
In short, after a number of failed calls, contractors not turning up and a large amount of 
chasing by Mrs M to try to get things sorted, a visit still hadnt been arranged. So, Mrs M 
found a roofer herself.
He carried out an inspection on 25 November 2022. And then began work to provide a 
permanent repair to the roof on 6 December. In the meantime, Mrs M had tried again to get 
hold of Admirals contractors but gave up on or around 1 December 2022.
Admiral declined Mrs Ms claim under her home insurance cover. They said the damage had 
not been caused by an insured event (a storm). Mrs M has made a separate complaint to 
Admiral - and then to us - about this, but we decided that Admiral hadnt acted in any way 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim.
Mrs M also made a complaint to Admiral about their response to her home emergency claim. 
Admirals agents upheld the complaint. They said in essence that there had been delays and 
confusion in appointing contractors and in contractors then contacting Mrs M. This included 
contractors being given the wrong phone number for Mrs M. And they paid Mrs M £50 in 
compensation.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us.
She says the condition of the roof deteriorated significantly between around 25 November 
2022  when Admirals agents ought to have attended to carry out a temporary fix which 
would have prevented further ingress of water through the roof  and 6 December when her 
own contractor started the repairs.
She says that meant her bill for the repairs went up from £1,960 to the £6,000 she had to 
pay her own roofer to repair the damage. She wants Admiral to pay the difference (£4,040) 
because, she says, it was their failure to respond properly to the home emergency that led 
directly to the further damage between 25 November and 6 December 2022.
She says she had to keep the heating on in her house permanently during the relevant 
period (23 November to 6 December 2023) to guard against further damp in the house. 
Which meant her utility bills increased. And she told us shed hired dehumidifiers for four 
weeks at a cost of £252.
Mrs M says the whole experience has been difficult, inconvenient and stressful. She had to 
deal with the claim herself due to her husbands illness, making many more calls than ought 
to have been necessary and ultimately not getting the service Admiral had promised. Her 
stress and worry was exacerbated by the fact that damp and cold would make her husbands 
illness worse.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Admiral had acted unfairly towards Mrs M. He 
took the view that Admiral should pay the extra repair costs (the £4,040), pay the £252 
Mrs M had spent on dehumidifiers, pay any additional heating costs Mrs M had incurred and 
pay a further £100 in compensation to Mrs M for her trouble and upset.
He said the first three of those payments should be dependent on Mrs M providing invoices, 
receipts or other proof of payment and/or properly evidencing the increase in her heating 
bills.
At that point, Admiral offered to pay a total of £1,000 to Mrs M. This would cover a heater 
allowance, a temporary accommodation allowance, increased compensation and £500 to 
reflect the likely cost of the temporary repair they ought to have carried out.
However, Admiral did not accept that they should pay the £4,040 difference between the 
cost of repairs Mrs M said would have been necessary on 25 November 2022 and those she 
eventually paid for on 6 December 2022.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Admirals offer. Although when we confirmed that shed have to 
provide receipts or invoices for the dehumidifiers, she withdrew that part of her complaint.
Our investigator then told Admiral he still thought they should pay the difference in the repair 
costs, the increased heating costs and the additional £100 compensation for Mrs Ms trouble 
and upset.
Admiral disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld. But I disagreed about 
what Admiral needed to do to put things right for Mrs M. So, I issued a provisional decision. 
This gave both Mrs M and Admiral an opportunity to provide further information or evidence 
and/or to comment on my thinking before I made my final decision in this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out what I think should have happened after Mrs M called Admiral 
on 23 November 2022. This will help set the context for the rest of my decision.On 23 November, Admiral rightly said theyd assess the home insurance claim. And 
they rightly referred Mrs M across to their home emergency line, so that she could 
get assistance from them in temporarily stopping the leak and preventing the damage 
from getting worse.
In Mrs Ms related complaint, weve already said Admiral didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in later declining the claim for the repairs to the roof. I cant go into that 
again here and I cant second guess or overturn that outcome. So, Admiral were not 
obliged to pay for the repairs to Mrs Ms roof, as it turned out.
Under the home emergency section of her policy though, Admiral accept they ought 
to have dealt with Mrs M in a courteous and timely manner, answering her queries in 
full and at the time she made them. They should also  within a few days at most  
have had a contractor attend the property to make temporary repairs to the roof.
None of those things happened. The customer service provided to Mrs M by 
Admirals contractors was poor. And there were avoidable delays and confusion 
about who might attend and when. And Mrs M  perfectly justifiably in all of those 
circumstances and given the time that had passed  had to have her own roofer 
attend to repair her roof.
So - and I dont think theres any real dispute about this  Admiral havent treated 
Mrs M fairly and reasonably. Their customer service was poor, and they didnt do the 
temporary repairs when they should have. And they need to do something now to put 
that right.
Admiral didnt make temporary repairs to Mrs Ms roof when they were obliged to do 
so. They say those repairs would likely have cost them up to £500. And theyve said 
theyre willing to pay that amount now to contribute to the costs Mrs M has incurred. I 
think thats fair and reasonable.
Theyve also said theyll pay Mrs M a further £500 to cover compensation for her 
trouble and upset, plus heating costs and an allowance they would have paid for 
alternative accommodation.
We said Admiral should pay £150 in compensation for Mrs Ms trouble and upset. 
That is, the inconvenience, frustration and stress she was caused by their failures to 
provide the service she had a right to expect and for which shes paid her insurance 
premiums. And we said they should also pay the extra heating costs Mrs M had 
incurred in the period between 23 November and 6 December 2022.
We said Mrs M should provide evidence of her extra heating costs to Admiral, but 
given Admirals offer to pay £1,000 in total, I dont think thats now necessary to bring 
this complaint to a satisfactory conclusion.
The £1,000 comprises the £500 the temporary repairs would have cost. Plus, an 
additional £100 that we thought would cover Mrs Ms trouble and upset. Leaving 
£400 to cover extra heating and/or any other costs Mrs M incurred to keep her house 
as warm and dry as possible in the relevant period.
We havent seen Mrs Ms heating bills, but I imagine that £400 is more than adequate 
to cover those costs and any others she incurred in the period in question (including 
the dehumidifier costs Mrs M says she incurred but cant evidence).
So, in summary, I think £1,000 is fair and reasonable compensation for Mrs Ms trouble and upset plus her additional costs. And Im minded to ask Admiral to pay 
that amount to Mrs M at the conclusion of this complaint.
This would obviate the need for any forensic, time-consuming and possibly 
disputatious analysis of the heating bills  and/or other costs - and how much theyd 
increased due solely to Admirals failure to carry out temporary repairs to the roof.
If either party thinks this is an unreasonable settlement of this part of the complaint, 
they can explain why in their response to this provisional decision.
This leaves only one further issue. Mrs M says her roofers bill increased from the 
£1,960 it would have been had Admiral carried out effective temporary repairs to 
prevent further water ingress by 25 November 2022 (or thereabouts) to the £6,000 it 
eventually cost her in total.
On the face of it - and given that there are some fixed costs (for example, scaffolding) 
which would remain the same whenever the repairs were carried out  its not 
immediately apparent how and why so much additional damage would be done to the 
roof itself as a result of the leak not being addressed for around two weeks.
Mrs M hasnt provided any itemised invoice for the work carried out on 6 December 
by her roofer. We asked her to do so after the case was referred to me for a final 
decision.
And we also asked her to get a statement from her roofer to detail how and why the 
work he carried out was much more significant (to the tune of adding over £4,000 to 
a bill of under £2,000) because of the relatively short delay in between 25 November 
and 6 December 2022.
The roofer provided Mrs M with an estimate for the work which would have been 
necessary had he repaired the roof immediately after he first inspected it on 25 
November 2022. This was in the form of an email to Mrs M. It contained no great 
detail. And it was composed five or six months after the roofer first visited the 
property.
That hypothetical estimate is worth quoting in full. The roofer said (Ive corrected 
some minor typos):
Roof repairs will be needed to front and rear of roof area due to driving wind 
and rain which has caused damage to tiles and existing felt, which has 
caused rain to enter loft space and make its way through ceiling. Works would 
be carried out to strip back both areas and repair with new felt, latt and 
replace with new Marley tile to match existing. Scaffolding will be erected to 
one side of property also to gable side for safety. All materials and labour will 
be included in cost. Total £1960.
As Ive said, there is no invoice for the work carried out on 6 December 2022. That in 
itself causes me some concern about the validity and/or weight of the evidence being 
presented by Mrs M.
When it comes to the repairs actually carried out  and why they were so much more 
significant and costly  all we have is an email from Mrs M herself reporting what the 
roofer said to her. In Mrs Ms own words, he said:
"When I stripped back the damaged areas, the continued rain that entered the roof and property had caused damage to the felt, sagging it, leaking water 
across larger spaces, damaging the inner roof, and walls. Therefore, the roof 
had to be stripped across front and back to replace the damaged felt, larger 
spaces needed repairing costing more, putting up the costs. When lifting the 
tiles, they had to replace the broken tiles. Damaged rafters due to the water 
penetration. If the work had been done sooner the damage would not have 
been so excessive".
If I take this account of what the roofer said at face value, there remain a number of 
obvious questions about the roofers version of events.
One  in the estimate for the work necessary on 25 November 2022, he says 
repairs include new felt. He then says  according to Mrs M (as quoted above) that 
the need to replace the felt is one of the reasons for the increase in the eventual 
costs. At first sight, that makes little sense.
Two  he says one of the increased costs is replacing broken tiles. But I assume that 
would have had to be done in any case, whether the work was carried out on 25 
November or 6 December 2022. Theres no reasonable way to suggest that it was 
Admirals failure to provide a temporary repair that led to more tiles being broken on 
the roof.
Three  and this is possibly the most significant potential cause of any increased cost 
 the roofer says that rafters needed to be replaced because the roof had been left 
exposed to more rain in the two week period between the claim being made and the 
repairs being carried out.
It is extremely unlikely that rafters which were sound on 23 November 2022 needed 
replacing because theyd been exposed to water for two weeks. Rafters dont rot  or 
suffer any significant damage - that quickly.
If the rafters were indeed rotten or damaged through damp, its much more likely this 
would have been a gradual process. In the other complaint Mrs M made, we 
established that it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to conclude that the weather 
immediately prior to the damp inside her house being spotted by Mrs M had not been 
the cause of the damage.
It follows that the roof must have been susceptible to leaks before then and/or had 
smaller leaks which didnt have the same impact inside the house, possibly due to 
wear and tear and/or gradual deterioration over time.
In which case, its likely that any rotten or damaged rafters were in that state before 
23 November 2022  possibly as a result of on-going water ingress through the roof 
tiles.
In summary, given the evidence I have in hand at present, I cant reasonably 
conclude that Admirals failure to carry out temporary repairs led to additional 
damage to Mrs Ms property such that an increase in repair costs of around £4,000 
could be explained or justified.
If Mrs M has further information or evidence to justify her position on the cost of those 
repairs, she has a chance to provide it now in response to this provisional decision.Im minded as things stand then to require Admiral to pay Mrs M £1,000 in 
compensation for her trouble and upset and to cover additional costs she incurred 
whilst her roof was open to the elements between 25 November and 6 December 
2022.
However, I disagree with our investigator about the alleged additional damage to the 
roof which occurred between those dates. And at present Im not minded to require 
Admiral to pay Mrs M the difference in the estimated costs on 22 November and the 
actual cost of the repairs carried out on 6 December 2022  or any part of it.
So, my conclusion was that I was minded to require Admiral to pay Mrs M £1,000 in total, as 
per the offer they made during our investigation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Admiral havent responded to my provisional decision. I assume thats because they agree 
with it. It is, after all, in line with the offer they made.
Mrs M responded at some length. Im sure Mrs M will understand that I wont reproduce her 
arguments word for word here, but Ill set out below the essence of what she said.
Mrs M says her property has always been well maintained. And the weather data Admiral 
used to assess her claim - and that we used when we looked into her complaint  was from 
a weather station at some distance from her home and at a lower altitude.
She says her roof was damaged extensively by the bad weather at the relevant time, but that 
was because the initial damage  creating a weak spot in the roof  wasnt addressed 
quickly. She reiterates that Admirals home emergency contractors didnt attend immediately 
 and indeed hadnt visited the property up to two weeks later, when she felt it was best to 
get her own contractor to carry out repairs.
Mrs M says that at that point, she had little effective choice about the contractor  because 
many local contractors were busy due to the bad weather  or about the scale of the repairs. 
She had to make a quick decision and had the roof replaced in its entirety. She still feels that 
wouldnt have been necessary if Admiral had carried out temporary repairs soon after she 
made her claim to them.
Mrs M says shes tried repeatedly to get more concrete, written information from her roofer 
about the repairs he carried out and why they were so much more extensive after the delay. 
But the contractor has provided only the hypothetical estimate for the repairs as they would 
have been had he attended soon after the initial damage occurred. And then told her 
verbally why the repairs cost so much more when they were actually completed.
Mrs M says that, even if we accept Admiral dont have to pay for the repairs to the roof in full, 
my calculations about what she ought to be paid are wrong. I said £1,000 was fair and 
reasonable to cover Mrs Ms additional costs and her trouble and upset.
She says her total losses were actually £1,720.67. She breaks this down as follows. 
Mrs M says her gas and electricity for the four weeks immediately after the claim was made 
cost £232.41. She says she had this confirmed by her supplier.
She says the temporary repairs would have cost £960 rather than the £500 Admiral say it 
would have cost them. Thats the roofers hypothetical estimate of £1,960 less £1,000 for 
scaffolding costs.She says because Admiral didnt respond properly to her claim, she should be reimbursed 
the £260.54 it cost her to pay the premiums for the year. 
And she says the cost of phone calls, emails and the time she spent on them is £267.59.
So, in summary - £232.41 gas and electricity costs, plus £960 for the temporary repair, plus 
£260.54 for the policy premiums, plus £267.59 for her time and phone and email costs, 
comes to a total of £1,720.67.
Mrs M doesnt say so explicitly, but those losses would be in addition to any compensation 
for her trouble and upset  which we said was fair at a further £100 to add to the £50 already 
paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I cant go back and re-open the previous complaint 
Mrs M made about Admiral declining her claim under her home insurance cover. 
Our view on that complaint was that there wasnt a storm and so it was not an insured event 
that caused the damage to Mrs Ms roof. Thats not up for debate now, so Mrs Ms points 
about the location of the nearest weather station arent relevant to the complaint Im now 
considering. Nor is Mrs Ms assertion that her property is  and has been - well-maintained.
I understand Mrs Ms argument that the damage to her roof was initially quite small but that it 
became much more extensive due to the continuing bad weather because the initial damage 
created a weakness which allowed the wind and rain to get into the rest of the roof and 
impact on it.
However, theres no real evidence to back that theory up. The roofers hypothetical estimate 
and later verbal comments are given so long after the events that theyre little more than 
conjecture. 
And in any case, even if that conjecture is right, it doesnt really support Mrs Ms theory 
about the damage. As I said in my provisional decision, if the rafters needed repairing or 
replacing because they were rotten, thats very unlikely to have been  so soon afterwards - 
the result of two weeks ingress of water alone.
In short, Mrs M is in effect asking Admiral to pay for a complete roof replacement (which 
wouldnt be covered under her home insurance, as we established when considering the 
previous complaint). 
Thats because, in her view, an entire roof replacement was only necessary because the 
roof was left for two weeks with initially minor damage which got worse only because it 
wasnt rectified in good time. 
I bear in mind that according to the outcome of the previous complaint, that initial damage 
occurred during weather which did not constitute a storm - and so would not be expected to 
cause any structural damage to an otherwise sound building. 
So, Mrs M wants Admiral to pay most of the cost of an entire new roof, to replace one which 
was at the time not robust enough to withstand weather which fell some distance from being 
reasonably defined as a storm.I hope Mrs M will understand why I cant reasonably justify making Admiral pay for her roof 
replacement on the basis of the evidence we have. And if that evidence is lacking because 
Mrs Ms roofer has been unwilling or unable to set out a proper justification for the repairs 
carried out or to explain why they became necessary, thats not Admirals fault.
Ill turn now to Mrs Ms assessment of the costs shes incurred because of Admirals failure 
to respond properly under the terms of the home emergency sections of her policy.
Admiral say the temporary repairs would have cost around £500 and theyre willing to make 
that contribution to Mrs Ms overall repair costs.
Im not sure why Mrs M has taken out the scaffolding cost from the hypothetical estimate 
provided by her roofer for the repairs if theyd been carried out immediately. I assume the 
roofer thinks a scaffold would have been necessary to do those repairs.
Leaving that aside, I frankly dont find that estimate in any way convincing. It was produced 
six months after the fact, to cover repairs that were never now going to be carried out. The 
estimate is brief, un-itemised and appears to be in some degree of conflict with the later 
verbal account of the repairs which were actually carried out.
Its also, to be clear, an estimate for permanent and lasting repairs  at the time and in the 
assumed circumstances  and not for a temporary repair to provide a brief period of 
protection until the permanent repairs could be made. 
So, I remain of the view that Admirals estimate of £500 costs for temporary repairs is more 
reliable and much more likely to be accurate, especially given Admirals  and their 
contractors  experience of carrying out such temporary repairs in other cases.
Mrs M appears to have found out  and relayed to us  the total cost of her gas and 
electricity for the month or so after the event. Im sure Mrs M will understand why I cant 
reasonably ask Admiral to pay that total amount given that she would have spent money on 
gas and electricity in the relevant period whether or not her roof had been damaged.
I dont agree with Mrs M that Admiral should also reimburse her policy premiums. She has 
had insurance cover for the year in question. The fact that one claim was declined doesnt 
alter that fact. And indeed, in this very decision, Im in effect presuming that the emergency 
cover part of the policy responds to Mrs Ms claim under that section.
Im not sure what additional cost of emails has been incurred by Mrs M in having to deal with 
Admiral over her claims. She would always have incurred some phone costs and she would 
always have had to spend some time dealing with Admiral in order to make her claims, even 
if Admiral had responded perfectly to her home emergency claim.
I dont know what calculation Mrs M is using to work out how much her time spent dealing 
with this matter is worth. However, I can say that we dont directly have businesses pay for a 
customers time spent on unnecessary phone calls or communications. 
We do take a view of the degree of inconvenience experienced by customers as a result of 
businesses errors  and that inconvenience includes having to make unnecessary phone 
calls. In this particular case, thats reflected in the compensation weve said Admiral should 
pay for Mrs Ms trouble and upset resulting from their errors in handling her claim.
Putting things right
In summary, for the reasons set out above, Im still of the view that Admiral should not be made to pay the difference between the amount Mrs M says she would have had to pay on 
repairs had they acted in a timely manner in response to her claim, as against the amount 
she eventually had to pay.
Again, for the reasons set out above, Im also not convinced by Mrs Ms arguments about 
the costs she incurred because of Admirals failure to respond properly to her home 
emergency claim.
Im not going to ask Admiral to refund Mrs Ms premium. Im not going to ask them to pay in 
full for Mrs Ms gas and electricity bills. And I remain of the view that Admirals estimate of 
the temporary repair costs (£500) is reasonable.
So, as I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that a payment of £1,000, as offered by 
Admiral, will cover the hypothetical temporary repair costs (£500), a further £100 in 
compensation for Mrs Ms trouble and upset  including the inconvenience of having to 
contact Admiral and others more than she ought to have had to do  and any additional 
costs she incurred for heating and/or anything else she did to protect her property before she 
had the roof fixed.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mrs M a further £1,000, as per the offer they 
made during the course of our investigation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman