DRN-2218424
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K has travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account.
Mr K had booked a holiday abroad. His outbound and inbound flights were both connecting 
flights, with a short stopover scheduled after the first leg of the flight.
A few weeks before Mr K was due to travel, his travel agent let him know that the first leg of 
his inward flight had been cancelled and so hed miss the connecting flight back to the UK. 
The travel agent explained it could organise a later flight, but that Mr K and his party would 
need to wait an extra night for their final connecting flight. The other option was to cancel the 
trip.
Mr K got in touch with Aviva to see if hed be covered if he and his party chose to spend an 
extra night abroad at their stopover point. The call handler told Mr K that hed be covered for 
additional travel and accommodation expenses abroad if he needed to stay abroad an extra 
night. Or that Mr K could look to book an alternative first-leg flight which would allow him and 
his party to catch the pre-booked second leg of their flight. Mr K said he looked into 
arranging a new flight to enable him to make the second-leg on time, but that the costs were 
too high. So he and his party decided to stay an extra night at the stopover point and made a 
claim for the costs they incurred.
Aviva turned down Mr Ks claim. It said itinerary changes simply werent covered by the 
policy terms, either for additional expenses to meet pre-booked connecting flights or for 
stopover costs; or if Mr K had cancelled his trip. It recognised that its call handler had 
wrongly led Mr K to believe his additional travel and accommodation expenses would be 
covered though. So it offered him £50 compensation for his loss of expectation.
Mr K wasnt happy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Ks claim. He accepted that Mr 
K had been misadvised that his claim would be covered. But he didnt think Mr K had 
suffered a financial loss as a result. He didnt think Mr K wouldve chosen to cancel his 
holiday and therefore lose the full costs of his trip. So he felt Mr K wouldve likely chosen the 
same course of action and wouldve chosen to stopover and incur accommodation costs. 
Overall, he felt that Avivas offer of compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr K disagreed. He said if hed known he wasnt covered by the insurance, hed have done 
something different. He mightve chosen to stay in the airport while he waited for his 
connecting flight, rather than incurring hotel and travel costs. He also suggested he mightve 
stayed in his holiday destination for an extra day, before departing on a direct flight back to 
the UK. Or booked cheaper accommodation in the stopover city.
The complaints been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Ks claim. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered the terms of Mr Ks policy to see whether the claim shouldve been 
covered. In particular, Ive considered the terms of the missed connections and travel delay 
sections of the policy, together with the enforced stay abroad section. Neither missed 
connections nor the travel delay sections include cover where a policyholders itinerary has 
been changed before they depart on their trip. And enforced stay abroad cover applies when 
a policyholders delayed because their airport or port is closed; airspace is closed or a flights 
cancelled because of volcanic ash. The circumstances of Mr Ks claim simply dont fall within 
these categories. So Im satisfied the claim isnt covered by the policy terms.
Theres no dispute that Avivas call handler wrongly led Mr K to believe that his travel and 
accommodation expenses would be covered if he chose not to cancel his trip and agreed to 
a longer stopover. So I can understand why Mr K feels that Aviva should now cover the 
accommodation and travel costs he incurred and how disappointing it mustve been when he 
learned those costs werent covered.
But in deciding what fair compensation should be, I need to think about whether the 
misinformation from Aviva caused Mr K to suffer any avoidable financial loss and whether it 
put him in a worse position that hed otherwise have been.
So Ive thought carefully about what I think Mr K would most likely have done if hed been 
correctly informed upfront that his situation wasnt covered, including any cancellation claim. 
First, I considered whether hed have decided to cancel the trip entirely. This wouldve meant 
that Mr K and his party wouldve lost the total cost of their holiday, including any pre-booked 
trips. I think these costs wouldve been significantly higher than the hotel and taxi costs Mr K 
did incur. So I dont think hed have likely taken up this option. And in any event, he 
acknowledged to our investigator that he wouldnt have cancelled the holiday.
Ive then considered what I think Mr K wouldve done in terms of the stopover. He told us 
that he wouldve arranged a hotel because he didnt think hed be allowed to stay in the 
airport for that period of time. He later explained that if hed known he wasnt covered, hed 
have stayed in the airport. He also indicated to our investigator that he mightve looked to 
stay an extra night on his holiday and arrange a new flight back to the UK. Or if hed known 
he wasnt covered, hed have arranged cheaper stopover accommodation.
Its possible that Mr K wouldve stayed abroad for an extra night and arranged a new flight. 
Ive noted that when he first complained to us, he didnt mention this was an option available 
to him  he simply mentioned a stopover or the cancellation of the holiday. It isnt clear 
though that even if Mr K had taken up this option, whether he wouldve needed to pay for 
accommodation or the costs of new flights or amending his existing ones. Its also possible 
that Mr K couldve found cheaper stopover accommodation and Ive considered this. But Ive 
borne in mind that there were four members of his party and so it seems to me that hed 
always have incurred at least some accommodation expenses. And Ive also thought about 
the fact that Mr K told us he didnt think hed be allowed to stay in the airport. While he later 
qualified this, Im not persuaded, on balance, that this wouldve been the most likely option.Overall, I think its most likely that Mr K wouldve still incurred a financial loss due to the 
change in his flight itinerary even if hed been correctly advised. If hed stayed abroad, its 
possible that loss mightve been even higher. And he hasnt provided any evidence to show 
he couldve secured alternative, cheaper accommodation. So Im not persuaded he lost out 
as a result of Avivas misinformation. This means I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr 
Ks claim.
I do agree that Mr K suffered a loss of expectation though and Im pleased Aviva 
acknowledged this. Its offered Mr K compensation of £50 to recognise its error and I think 
this is fair in the circumstances. So I direct Aviva to now pay Mr K £50 compensation if it 
hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer of 
compensation is fair.
I make no further award against Aviva.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman