DRN-3331902
The complaint
Mr O complains that Vanquis Bank Limited has registered adverse information on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr O says he told Vanquis that he had difficulties making required payments towards his 
credit card debt. He says he explained he had health problems, but Vanquis still registered 
four late payment markers on his credit file. Mr O says that is unjust and that he needs a 
clear credit file for work reasons. He would like that adverse information removed from his 
credit file.
Vanquis says Mr O contacted it in March 2021 and told it about his health problems. It says it 
agreed an interest free repayment plan and refunded some of the fees. But it says Mr O 
missed required payments from September 2020 and so it didnt make a mistake by 
reporting those missed payments to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). 
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr O missed a number of required payments and didnt tell Vanquis about any 
health problems until some time after they were missed. The investigator thought Vanquis 
was obliged to accurately report information about its customers accounts to the CRAs and 
so didnt make a mistake by doing so.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and says he was honest with Vanquis about his health 
problems and says the impact of the adverse information is significant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Vanquis is obliged in line with its regulatory duties to accurately report the 
account position of its customers to the CRAs. I have no doubt Mr O appreciates the 
importance of accurate information being reported and what its used for. So, I dont think 
Vanquis made a mistake or acted unfairly by reporting the missed payments on Mr Os 
account to the CRAs. I have looked carefully at Vanquiss records and Im satisfied that 
there were a number of months of missed required payments from September 2020 on.
I appreciate that Mr O made contact with Vanquis in March 2021 which I think was some 
months after the first of the missed payments. And I also appreciate Mr O explained to 
Vanquis that he had health problems. But I dont think Vanquis was obliged to remove the 
late payment markers in those circumstances, as I think they were correctly recorded and 
accurately reflected the account management at the time. I dont think Vanquis could have 
known about those health issues until Mr O told it about them. 
I can see that when Vanquis was made aware of Mr Os health and financial problems that it 
tried to help him by refunding fees and agreeing a repayment plan. I appreciate that is not 
the key issue in this complaint but make it clear that I think Vanquis acted positively and 
sympathetically.
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis accurately reported Mr Os account position to the CRAs 
and so I find it would be unfair to order that the late payment marker information be removed 
from Mr Os credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman