DRN-3766188
The complaint
Mr R complains that Freetrade Limited provided misleading pricing information and failed to 
meet its best execution obligations for some trades on his account.
What happened
On Friday 6 March 2020 Mr R purchased 302 shares in iShares Gold Producers ETF 
through his Freetrade account, at a price of £9.9197 per share. The following Monday, 9 
March 2020, he attempted to sell the holding. Freetrades system showed an indicative sell 
price of £11 per share but despite Mr R making numerous attempts, orders to sell 302 
shares kept failing. 
After nearly an hour, with the indicative price still showing as £11, Mr R attempted to sell part 
of the holding and at 9:23am a sale of 100 shares was completed at a price of £9.3311 per 
share, followed by a further two sales of 100 and 50 shares at £9.3327 and £9.3226 
respectively. 
Having received prices far below the indicated £11, Mr R complained to Freetrade that the 
orders hadnt been executed in a transparent manner, nor in accordance with its terms 
regarding best execution. Freetrade apologised but explained that due to the extreme 
volatility in the market that day no markets makers had been providing acceptable quotes for 
the full holding during the period hed initially been trying to place the order.
The complaint was referred to this service but having considered the circumstances our 
investigator concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said, in brief; 
The terms of agreement with Freetrade stated that the price at which an order 
executes might be different from that shown on the website or app  the indicative 
price, which was based on the last price at which a stock had traded. 
When an order completed the price achieved should, however, be the best available, 
in line with Freetrades execution policy. And having checked the tick data pricing 
information for the period in question it appeared that the prices eventually obtained 
for Mr R were in line with this. 
The problems Mr R had experienced had occurred on a day where the market was 
demonstrating exceptional volatility due to unprecedented circumstances. And this 
went some way towards explaining the delay in being able to obtain successful 
execution. 
Mr R responded to say that he didnt feel that the investigator had addressed the crux of the 
complaint. He stressed his concern that Freetrades system had failed to update the 
indicative price for almost an hour  not every 15 minutes as the information it displayed in 
the app would suggest  and this meant that he was left unable to make an informed 
decision about whether to place orders. Mr R was of the view that more accurate pricing had 
been available to Freetrade and shouldve been provided.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, as he remained satisfied it was made 
clear the price shown in the app was indicative and not a guarantee of what would be 
achieved. So, as no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say that the crux of Mr Rs complaint is not the way in which the orders were 
eventually executed on 9 March 2020, or the price achieved. In that respect, the three orders 
do appear to have been executed prices reflecting the relevant tick data for the time period 
in question  although I recognise they were prices well below what Mr R was hoping for.
Mr Rs primary concern is with the information provided by the Freetrade app prior to 
execution, during the hour in which he was initially trying to sell 302 shares. He says that 
when he first started trying to place orders the indicative price displayed was £11 and it 
remained so throughout the period in question, up to and including when his orders were 
eventually executed at well below that price. This is despite the Freetrade app showing that 
the price was delayed by 15 minutes and would be updated. 
Mr R accepts that the price displayed prior to submitting an order is indicative  in other 
words, a guide price designed to give a picture of what the market is doing and an idea of 
the price the stock in question is trading at. But he feels that there comes a point at which, 
despite not being presented as a guarantee, there is nevertheless a reasonable expectation 
that the indicative price is based upon some properly informed estimation of what the stock 
price/market is doing. In short, if the price is so out of kilter with what is actually happening 
then it becomes misleading.
I agree that if there had been some error made by Freetrade that morning and the price 
displayed had been manifestly incorrect  for instance, the price of a different stock, or the 
previous weeks data accidentally reloaded, then Id be likely to conclude that it was 
responsible for misleading Mr R. 
But Ive not seen that there was such an error made. Rather, it seems that Freetrades 
system was working as it should but in the context of unprecedented circumstances, low 
volumes of trades and high levels of volatility. The very fact that Mr R was unable to 
successfully place the original order for so long is, I think, reflective of the very unusual 
trading conditions of that day. Markets around the world were falling significantly in response 
to the developing Covid pandemic. The Dow Jones Index saw its largest ever fall.
Mr R has said that at the time he was trying to trade the app was indicating that prices were 
delayed by 15 minutes, but there was no apparent change for much longer than this. And 
this suggests that the system wasnt functioning correctly. But there was nothing in 
Freetrades terms that confirmed how frequently the price would be updated. And even if 
further updates had been received from the third party that was supplying Freetrade with its 
data, in the manner set out in the terms, theres no guarantee that any update wouldve been 
a more reliable indicator of what price might actually be achieved.
In summary, to uphold Mr Rs complaint I would need to be satisfied that Freetrade had 
acted incorrectly or unreasonably in provided its service to him. But Im not persuaded that is 
the case. Freetrade acknowledged in its final response to Mr R that the situation he 
encountered on 9 March 2020 wasnt ideal. But, on balance, I think it was a manifestation of 
the unprecedented circumstances of that day as opposed to any mistake on the part of 
Freetrade. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman