DRN-3134947
The complaint
Mrs F complains that HDI Global Specialty SE has declined her home insurance claim for 
flood damage and voided (cancelled) her policy back to its start date.
What happened
Mrs F took out a home insurance policy with HDI at the end of October 2019. At the
beginning of October 2020, Mrs Fs home was damaged by a flood from a blocked
underground drain in a neighbouring property. Mrs F made a claim to HDI.
During the claim validation process, it came to HDIs attention that Mrs F was renting part of
her home as a holiday let on a well-known website. Through November 2020 HDI made
enquiries with Mrs F about this and about the actual size of her property. Mrs F told HDI that
shed withdrawn the property from the website shortly after the flood. There were issues with
Mrs Fs phone in the early stages of the claim and HDI had difficulties in making contact.
Around the end of January 2021, HDI emailed Mrs F to say it had been trying to speak to her
on the phone without success. HDI said that Mrs Fs claim had been referred to a senior
underwriter for review and that, as consequence, further information was now sought. HDI
said it seemed that the house had been listed for sale in 2018 with 6 bedrooms along with an
annex providing a 7th. HDI asked Mrs F if this was correct, and it asked her how the rooms
were used and how the vendor had marketed them when she bought the property.
Mrs F replied to HDI and said the vendor had used the house as a 4-bedroom property but
she only really needed 2-3 bedrooms. She said that bedrooms 5 & 6 had been partitioned
and had once been one room. Mrs F said bedroom 6 really was too small to be classed as a
bedroom and the seventh (annex) bedroom wasnt used by the previous owners as such nor
was it used as a bedroom by her until the second half of 2020 when she decided to decorate
and market it for holiday rental.
Shortly after, HDI let Mrs F know it was voiding her policy and returning her premiums on the
basis that she had misrepresented the number of bedrooms the house had  she had said it
had 5 bedrooms when in fact it had 6. It said because the policy was being voided back to its
inception it would be closing Mrs Fs claim down as well. HDI also said that the policy
included a duty to let it know if the property was going to be used for anything other than
private residential purposes. It said that had it been made aware that Mrs F was renting out
the property as a holiday let then it would have had to have cancelled her policy and asked
her to seek cover elsewhere.
Mrs F said the property was a 5-bedroom house and that the old floorplan HDI was relying
on said there was a bedroom 6 when in fact that room was too small to be classed as one.
She said that was why she described the property as a 5 bedroom one. Mrs F said that HDI
was looking for a way to avoid paying her claim.
Mrs F complained to HDI about the time it had taken to provide her with a decision about the
validity of her insurance claim and that she had been unable to obtain cover elsewhere. HDI
looked into Mrs Fs complaint and issued its final response letter at the start of February. It
said that where it found a potential misrepresentation might have occurred it was very
important that it established how cover had been obtained and what questions were asked
and answers given during the sales process. HDI said it took time to collate and review the
necessary information and to give Mrs F the chance to explain why the misrepresentation
occurred. HDI said it thought it couldve done all of this in a more timely manner so it paid
Mrs F compensation of £100 in recognition of the delays shed experienced.
Unhappy with HDIs decision about her voided policy and declined claim, Mrs F complained
to this service. She said the damage to her home remained untouched and she hadnt
misrepresented how many bedrooms she had. Mrs F said shed been asked how many
rooms the property had and had correctly disclosed that there were 10.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Fs complaint and recommended that it was upheld in part.
He thought the decision HDI had taken to void the policy and decline the claim wasnt unfair
in the circumstances. But he also thought HDI should increase the amount of compensation
itd paid Mrs F to £300 for failing to communicate with her at all between the start of October
2020 when she notified it of the claim, and mid-February 2021 when it told her it was voiding
the policy.
Mrs F said that she didnt think what she was doing by renting out her annex amounted to
business use (that needed disclosing under the policy terms) nor did it increase the risk HDI
was insuring. Mrs F said she had no intention of misleading HDI.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in October 2021 
recommending that the complaint wasnt upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Mrs F, I dont think her complaint should be
upheld. Ill explain why.
When a consumer buys (or renews) an insurance policy, they are asked various questions
about what it is they want to insure. The insurer will use the answers given to assess the risk
of offering to insure the relevant property. Insurers rely on the answers and information given
being accurate. HDI has provided us with the questions Mrs F was asked at the time the
policy was sold. She was asked: how many bedrooms does the property have
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10. There was help text alongside the question that said: please include
rooms that were originally designed as bedrooms, even if they are now used for a different
purpose (e.g. converted to a study).
Mrs F answered the question to say there were 5 bedrooms. But looking at the floorplan
there are currently 7 rooms cited as bedrooms. So even if I agreed with Mrs F that bedroom
5 had been split into 2, creating bedrooms 5 & 6, it still means the property has 6 bedrooms.
So I cant fairly agree with Mrs F that she answered this question correctly by saying her
home had 5 bedrooms.
It is Mrs Fs responsibility to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and,
unfortunately for Mrs F, I dont think she did. I can see too that the policy pack sent by HDI at
the point of sale included a statement of fact that stated that the property had 5 bedrooms.
The statement of fact asked Mrs F to read it carefully to ensure the information provided was
correct because her policy was based on it. So Im satisfied that Mrs F had the opportunity to
review the answers shed given when applying for the policy.
HDI has provided us with a copy of its underwriting criteria which shows that, without the
misrepresentation it wouldnt have sold the policy to Mrs F. I can see that its underwriting
criteria stipulates that the product Mrs F bought is for properties up to a maximum of 5
bedrooms. So Im satisfied that HDI has been able to show that, but for themisrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mrs F.
I dont think the misrepresentation Mrs F made was in any way deliberate or reckless but I
do think it was careless. The law says that where a careless misrepresentation can be
shown to have been made, and the insurer can show it wouldnt have offered the policy on
any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims but it must return the premiums.
Consequently the policy is treated as never having existed which means Mrs Fs claim isnt
covered. I can see that Mrs F has said shes yet to receive her returned premium so I would
ask HDI to make sure that it has done so.
So I dont think that HDI unfairly or unreasonably voided Mrs Fs policy in the circumstances.
It follows that as Mrs Fs policy is being treated as it never existed then it means she is
deemed to have had no cover when the damage to her property occurred. So HDI doesnt
have to consider her claim for flood damage any further.
I can see that, in the alternative, HDI has also said that Mrs F failed to comply with the policy
condition that she notify it if she decided to use her home for any reason other than private
residential reasons. It is my understanding that Mrs F had advertised the annex in her
property for holiday let purposes from July 2020. I can see that the policy documentation
makes it clear that she had an ongoing duty of disclosure to HDI and shouldve disclosed the
change in use. HDI has said that if Mrs F had notified it about letting the annex it wouldve
had to cancel her policy. Ive seen HDIs underwriting guide and can confirm that it wont
cover properties that have paying guests.
I appreciate that Mrs F says she cant see how letting the annex to paying guests increased
the risk to HDI such that it would want to know about it and wouldve cancelled her policy if it
had known. Im unable to agree that the risk to HDI wont have increased in such
circumstances but, in any event, the risk is HDIs to take on (or not) as it chooses. If it
doesnt wish to cover properties with paying guests then it is entitled to decline to do so. I
think the change in use of the property was fundamental to the risk HDI had taken on so I
dont think it unfairly or unreasonably relied on this policy condition to show that, even if
thered been no misrepresentation, the claim would still not have been covered.
Finally, Ive thought about the compensation HDI paid Mrs F. Our investigator said that it
should pay her an additional £200 because itd failed to communicate with her between
when shed made the claim and when it notified her that it was voiding her policy (a period of
about 4 months). But the evidence Ive seen  as set out above  indicates that HDI was in
contact with Mrs F during that time. I can see that there were attempts to call her and that,
by Mrs Fs own admission, there were issues with her phone that meant she was out of
contact for periods.
All insurance claims attract a certain level of inconvenience; thats to be expected. But where
an insurer, through its words and deeds, causes a consumer avoidable trouble and upset,
we can require it to pay compensation. Mrs F made her claim on 2 October 2020 and HDI
issued its final response letter four months later on 5 February 2021. In between, I can see
that HDI was attempting to validate the claim initially and then, when it suspected there
might have been a misrepresentation, it was collating and reviewing the evidence around
that. I can see it asked Mrs F for her explanation about why she said there were 5 bedrooms
and I can see it referred the claim to a senior underwriter to review.
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to want to validate a claim, or to check cover. I think that
HDI could perhaps have moved things along a little faster but it has accepted it could,
apologised and paid Mrs F compensation of £100 in recognition of this. And it seems to me
that some of the delays were a consequence of the issues with Mrs Fs phone. So taking all
the circumstances into account I think that HDI has treated Mrs F fairly and reasonably bypaying her compensation of £100 and that the amount paid is in line with awards this service
has made in similar cases. I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require HDI to pay Mrs F 
any more.
HDI replied to my provisional decision to say it accepted my provisional findings and had 
nothing further to add. 
Mrs F replied to my provisional decision and made the following comments:
1. That shed not intended to mislead HDI about the fact she was renting out part of her 
property;
2. That she still didnt accept that that her house had more than 5 bedrooms;
3. That she disagreed that shed been kept informed by HDI about the progress of her 
claim; and
4. That HDI has still not returned her premium. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs F taking the time to reply to my provisional decision, however, Im afraid 
that whilst Ive thought about the points shes made, they havent persuaded me to change 
my mind about her complaint. 
I accept that Mrs F didnt intend to mislead HDI deliberately about the fact she was renting 
part of her property to paying holiday guests. But I explained provisionally that there was a 
condition in the policy that required her to notify HDI if she decided to use her home for any 
purpose other than private residential reasons. Unfortunately, nothing Mrs F said in 
response to my provisional decision has persuaded me that HDI were unreasonable to rely 
on this condition as an alternative reason for cancelling her policy. The policy documentation 
clearly set out that she had an ongoing duty of disclosure so Im satisfied that HDI did 
enough to draw the obligation to Mrs Fs attention.
I do understand that Mrs F considers her home has only 5 bedrooms. But I set out 
provisionally my findings on this issue. Ive thought about what Mrs F has said about in 
response but, as she herself acknowledges, she has repeated points that were previously 
made, and which were considered by me provisionally. 
Finally, I note that Mrs F has said that HDI didnt keep her informed about what was 
happening with her claim. I reviewed the evidence and I set out provisionally the contact HDI 
made with Mrs F. I noted that there were attempts to call her. The evidence Ive seen also 
showed that it was Mrs F that told HDI that shed been having problems with her phone. That 
said, I do accept that HDI couldve moved things along a bit quicker but I remain of the view 
that its apology, and the payment of £100 as compensation in recognition of its failings in 
this respect, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs F says her premium hasnt been returned by HDI. HDI should, of course, return Mrs Fs 
premium. And Ive reviewed HDIs final response letter of 16 February 2021 in which it stated 
that a full return of Mrs Fs premium would be made through her broker. Ive no evidence 
that it didnt do so. And as this complaint is about HDI I cant look here at anything Mrs Fs 
broker did or didnt do but she should contact her broker about this matter in the first 
instance. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman