DRN-4232287
The complaint
Mr N complained because TSB Bank plc refused to refund him for transactions which he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr N opened his TSB account online in October 2022. There was no activity on the account 
until 13 December, when a faster payment for £8,500 credited the account. Someone saying 
he was Mr N went to a branch the next day, asking to withdraw £2,000 in cash. The branch 
refused, saying the customer needed to provide proof of entitlement to the funds.
The same day, a series of daily withdrawals started. These were a mixture of cash machine 
withdrawals of £500 a day, and branch withdrawals of £800. 
Mr N went to a branch on 23 December with identification. He said the incoming money had 
been from a friend. He told TSB he hadnt made the withdrawals, which by then totalled 
£5,450.
TSB investigated. On 6 January 20223, it declined Mr Ns fraud claim. It also said it was 
closing his account. Mr N complained. He said hed been abroad at the time of the 
withdrawals, but TSB said this wouldnt change the outcome. It closed Mr Ns account on 10 
January.
TSB issued its final response to Mr Ns complaint on 16 January. It said that it appreciated 
Mr N was distressed after its fraud departments decision about all the withdrawals since Mr 
N had opened the account. But it said that as some of the transactions had been made at a 
TSB branch, it had checked CCTV for those transactions. Mr N had provided identification, 
and that matched the person on the CCTV, so TSB had declined the fraud claim.  TSB also 
said that the payments which Mr N had claimed as fraud couldnt have been made without 
the £8,500 initial credit. So whoever took out the withdrawals must have known about the 
account. So it refused to refund Mr N. 
Mr N wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said that he hadnt received cards and 
PINs, and he said hed had problems with his neighbours. He also said hed been abroad at 
the time of the disputed transactions.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. She said that the only activity on the 
account before the disputed transactions had been the £8,500 credit. She was satisfied that 
TSB had issued three cards and PINs to Mr Ns address.  Two cards were issued before 
there was any money in the account. The third card was sent out on 5 December, and was 
used for the first disputed withdrawal on 14 December, so whoever made the withdrawals 
knew when the £8,500 credit had been paid in. The investigator also pointed out that there 
was £3,050 left in the account, and the payments were made over seven days.  This 
suggested that the person carrying out the transactions knew the card wouldnt be blocked. 
And whoever made them also knew what the cash machine daily limit was. She thought it 
was most likely that Mr N had authorised the disputed transactions by allowing someone 
else to make them.
Mr N didnt agree. He and the investigator discussed postal deliveries to Mr Ns home. Mr N 
had previously said that the card and PIN had gone missing from his home. After the 
investigators view, he told her that the neighbour hed asked to check his post was elderly 
and didnt check daily; that his partner and his brother would have had access to his mail but 
they didnt know about the credit to the TSB account; that hed asked Royal Mail to redeliver 
post to his brothers home while he was away; and that deliveries were left in a communal 
hall and not always delivered to his door. 
Mr N also said that just because money was taken out a day after it was paid in, didnt mean 
the person taking it out knew money was in the account. He said the evidence clearly 
pointed to a third party and he and his household werent around at the time, and anyone 
had access to his mail. He also said that neighbours had had parcels not delivered to their 
doors, or stolen by third parties and mail opened. Mr N asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these circumstances there are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The 
relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the 
bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they 
did authorise them. So Ive considered whether or not I think its most likely that Mr N, or 
someone else, authorised the disputed payments.
Mr N said he couldnt have made the withdrawals because he never received any of the 
cards or PINS. He also told us about a bank account he held elsewhere. Its strange that he 
would have had his friends large credit paid into his new TSB account, which he said was 
for the purchase of a large item, if he hadnt received any of the cards or PINs. Mr N told us 
that he didnt do internet or mobile banking. If Mr N didnt have the means of making 
withdrawals, I think its reasonable to expect hed have had the credit sent to his other bank 
account not to his TSB account. He replied to the investigator by saying that it was easier to 
get money out of TSB. But as Mr N intended to buy a large item, I think its likely that hed 
have waited till he had a way of withdrawing, before agreeing with his friend that the friend 
would send the £8,500 credit. 
Mr N has also been inconsistent in what hes said about postal arrangements and the cards 
and PINs not arriving. Those would have come separately, in 6 envelopes and at different 
times. Mr N gave different versions to TSB and then to our investigator. And after so many 
failed attempts, I find it surprising that he didnt ask TSB if he could collect them another 
way, for example by attending a branch with identification. So I dont find it very credible that 
Mr N didnt receive any of the cards and PINs. 
.
Whoever carried out the transactions must have known about the credit on the account, as 
the debits started the day after the large credit. The account had been open for a couple of 
months with a nil balance when the large credit was received, making it more unlikely that 
any fraudster would have known when to start withdrawals. 
When a third party fraudster steals money, they normally take the maximum from the 
account as quickly as possible, before the thefts can be spotted and the account blocked. 
But here, the money was withdrawn gradually over a number of days, and there was still a 
balance of over £3,000 when Mr N raised the dispute. Thats not typical of a fraudster.Ive also borne in mind that, as TSB pointed out in its final response letter, its CCTV taken 
when some of the branch withdrawals were made, showed a person who matched the photo 
identification provided by Mr N when he opened the account.
Taking these and other factors into account, I consider that the disputed withdrawals werent 
carried out by a third party fraudster who had obtained cards and PINs which Mr N said he 
never received. I find that its more likely than not that Mr N, or someone with his knowledge 
and authority on his behalf, carried out the disputed withdrawals. So I dont uphold this 
complaint and TSB does not have to refund Mr N.
Finally, TSB closed Mr Ns account following its investigation. It was entitled to do this in the 
circumstances, under the terms and conditions of the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman