DRN-2331080
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Limited (Revoult) blocked his account. He says the block cost 
him profits as it denied him access to money he intended to invest.
What happened
On 7 October 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Is account. It carried out a review and requested 
information from Mr I to verify the source of funds in his account. It completed its review and 
released the block on 16 October 2019. 
Mr I complained. He said he wanted compensation for the block as it cost him profits on 
investments he would have made with the money in his account during the time the account 
was blocked. Revolut offered Mr I £10 as a gesture of goodwill, but declined to offer any 
further compensation.
 Mr I remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think Revolut had made an error in blocking his account, so she didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr I rejected her outcome, saying the length of time the block was in place was unfair. And 
that he felt harassed by Revolut asking him for the source of his income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Is account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr I to have his account blocked without knowing why, but 
banks are entitled and in fact obliged to block accounts under certain circumstances, and 
having reviewed the evidence provided to me, Im satisfied Revoluts actions werent a 
mistake. 
Mr I says he felt harassed by Revolut asking him about the source of his funds. But banks 
are entitled to make such enquiries of their customers when they review accounts. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest Revolut exceeded its right to ask Mr I about the source of 
his funds. Or said or did anything that I would consider to amount to harassment. 
Delay 
When he replied to our investigators findings, Mr I said Revolut had kept his account 
blocked for too long. So, Ive looked at the action Revolut took while it reviewed Mr Is 
account, to see if it acted promptly. 
Having done so, I havent seen anything to suggest there were any unnecessary delays on 
Revoluts part. Reviewing an account in line with a banks terms and conditions takes time 
and requires careful consideration. Mr Is account was blocked from 7 October 2019 to 16 
October 2019, being a total of nine days. In the circumstances of this complaint, and based 
on the evidence both parties have provided me, my view is that nine days was a reasonable 
period for Revolut to keep Mr Is account blocked. 
So, having looked at all of the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award 
against Revolut, given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Is account. So Im not going to ask it to compensate him for any 
distress and inconvenience this may have caused. Or for any financial loss he may have 
suffered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman