DRN-2777767
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled his emergency repair claim 
under his landlords insurance policy.
UKI use intermediaries to administer their landlords insurance policy, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I understand Mr S is unhappy with the contractors diagnosis of the leak as he didnt 
go up on to the roof to inspect the cause and instead attempted to diagnose the 
problem from the ground. But UKI have explained that their contractor was not able 
to access the roof using a ladder due to health and safety reasons, that would 
otherwise require scaffolding to be erected, which is also confirmed in the 
contractors report. So, while I appreciate accessing the roof would have perhaps 
facilitated a more detailed inspection, Im not persuaded that the contractors failure 
to access the roof is indicative of any negligence, inadequate investigation or 
misdiagnosis.
The contractor determined that, in his professional opinion, no temporary repair was 
possible. He said that the tiles needed to be recemented as the current cement had 
been washed out over time, and he provided Mr S with a quote of £2,100 for the leak 
to be fixed. I appreciate that Mr S disagreed with the contractors diagnosis of the 
issue, but he hasnt provided any independent evidence (such as his own engineers 
report) that would suggest the diagnosis was wrong or that the price quoted by UKIs 
contractor was unreasonable. 
UKI, as the insurer, is entitled to rely on the advice and findings of its appointed 
professionals, unless there is anything to suggest that the report provided is patently 
wrong. But as Ive set out above, Mr S has not provided any independent evidence to 
support his claims that the contractor misdiagnosed the problem. I appreciate he was 
subsequently able to get his roof repaired for a cheaper price with his own contractor. 
But that does not mean that the price quoted by UKIs contractor was wrong or 
unreasonable. UKI have also said that as a gesture of goodwill (owing to an earlier 
mix up where the insurer submitted a report for a different property), they will be 
willing to consider contributing to the cost of repairs if Mr S is able to submit an 
invoice for the amount he paid. However, he has so far not submitted any such 
invoice and cannot evidence how much he paid to repair his roof. UKI have said it will 
not be able to consider making any contribution until Mr S is able to provide 
reasonable evidence of the costs he incurred, which I dont think is unfair in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But in the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded that UKI have done anything substantially wrong that would warrant any 
award of compensation. So, I will not be directing the insurer to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman