DRN-4002569
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a used 
car. The car was five years old, with a cash price of £9,990. Mr M has told us that hed spent 
months searching for a car of the specification he wanted. He says the dealer was based a 
long way away, so he chose this car based on the description in the advert. It said: 
Overview    satnav  revcam  red leather  history    103,000 miles.
This is a one owner car with 6 service stamps done 10K  21K  42K  62K  91K and 
last serviced at 103K in September 2020. 
It said the car came with:
Rear parking aid
Satellite navigation  SD card with dynamic route guidance and low CO2 routing. 
Mr M says hed told the dealer that hed noticed the MOT history showed advisories about 
the condition of the brakes and tyres, and that he wouldnt be prepared to buy the car unless 
those issues were taken care of. He says the dealer also agreed to refurbish the wheels as 
part of the deal.  
Mr M signed the finance agreement online. This showed the purchase price to be £10,520, 
which included £360 for a warranty and £170 for delivery. Mr M agreed to make an advance 
payment of £360 and to repay the rest of the amount owed over 59 months, in accordance 
with the terms of the finance agreement.  
Mr M says the dealer delivered the car to him on 30 September 2020. He says the delivery 
driver got there late, after it was dark, and had to rush off to catch a train. Mr M says he then 
noticed several issues, including damage to the alloy wheels, a broken mirror, the problems 
with the brakes and tyres hadnt been addressed, and the car didnt have satnav or a 
reversing camera. Hes told us that the engine management light (EML) came on within 20 
minutes of driving the car. 
Mr M says he took the car for a diagnostic check the following day. The garage issued a 
receipt, recording the cars mileage to have been 106,107. It listed six diagnostic check 
codes, described as intermittent historic fault codes.
Mr M says he contacted the dealer to complain about the car within a day of it being 
delivered to him. He says they told him to wait two weeks and then make a claim on the 
warranty. Mr M says the dealer told him he could carry on using the car with the fault, with 
no risk to the car. 
Mr M says hes never been able to use the warranty he was sold with the car, because it 
only provides cover for claims up to £1,000 and labour charges of up to £70 per hour. He 
says this isnt adequate, because the manufacturers garages charge £176 per hour for this 
type of vehicle. 
On 8 October 2020 Mr M complained to Moneybarn that hed like the mechanical and other 
issues rectified. Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car on 30 
October 2020. The cars mileage was recorded to have been 106,435 at the start of the 
inspection. The engineers report concluded:
there were no faults found with this vehicle in regards to performance or running issues.
The intermittent fault codes require further investigation under workshop conditions.
On 1 December 2020 Moneybarn issued their final response to Mr M, saying they couldnt 
support his request for repairs to be carried out because the engineer hadnt been able to 
find a fault with the car. They acknowledged that some faults can be intermittent, and asked 
Mr M to take the car for diagnosis if the problem happened again. They paid him £150 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused by the length of time theyd taken to respond to the 
complaint. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He provided 
evidence showing hed paid for the brake discs and pads to be replaced in November 2020. 
He told us that hed also had the tyres replaced because he felt they were a safety risk. 
In October 2021 Mr M contacted our investigator again to say the car was at the garage and 
couldnt be driven. He said the garage told him the timing jumped and the car now needed 
a new engine, which would cost over £10,700. 
Mr M also obtained a diagnostic report from a mobile mechanic, which said:
Timing chain has stretched and skipped a tooth on the inlet and exhaust camshaft 
sprockets.
Advise remanufactured engine is fitted.
Mr M said he believed the engine had failed because the car hadnt been serviced properly 
by the dealer. He said the dealer promised him the car would be serviced in accordance with 
the manufacturers recommendations, so the timing chain should have been changed. 
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to reinspect the car on 1 November 2022. 
The mileage was recorded to have been 118,951 at that time. The engineers report 
concluded:
Based on the evidence available to ourselves at the time of inspection, we would not 
consider the reported faults with the vehicle to be present or developing at the point of 
inception.
Having looked into what happened, our investigator said he thought Moneybarn should 
reimburse Mr M £120 for the cost of the diagnostic report carried out on 1 October 2020. He 
said he couldnt make any award for the cost of repairing the six faults highlighted at that 
time, because he hadnt seen any evidence to show what this would have cost. And he didnt 
think he could hold Moneybarn liable for the engine having failed, without evidence to show 
this was due to issues that were already present or developing when the car was supplied.  
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Mr M had been misled into believing particular servicing 
had been undertaken when it wasnt. And he wasnt persuaded that Mr M had been misled 
about the reversing camera or the condition of the wheels. 
The investigator said he hadnt seen sufficient evidence to be able to recommend 
reimbursement for the cost of replacing the tyres. But he thought Mr M was reasonably entitled to expect the brakes to have been in better condition when the car was supplied. He 
said Moneybarn should reimburse Mr M £693.59 for the cost of the replacement brake parts. 
He felt they should also reimburse Mr M for the associated labour, if the price of this could 
be evidenced or otherwise ascertained.
Moneybarn accepted our investigators view. They asked for evidence showing the amount 
they needed to pay Mr M to settle the complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators suggested outcome, so the case has come to me for 
a decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ms complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. It explains that things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case I bear in mind that this car was five years old when it was supplied to Mr M. It 
cost £9,990, which is significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was new. Ive also taken 
into account the way the car was described by the dealer. 
I cant say with any certainty what the cars mileage was at the time the car was supplied to 
Mr M. Ive seen a copy of the dealers service invoice dated 28 September 2020, which 
records the mileage to have been 103,712. And Ive seen a copy of the diagnostic report 
dated 1 October 2020, which records the mileage to have been 106,107. I think one of those 
records is likely to be incorrect, because I consider it very unlikely that the car travelled 
almost 2,400 miles in those three days. 
Mr M has told us that the car was delivered to him on the evening of 30 September 2020, 
and that he covered very little distance before the diagnostic report was carried out the 
following day. Having thought about this, I think it likely that the car had already covered 
closer to 106,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr M. 
It isnt disputed that theres now a major fault with the car, which means the engine needs to 
be replaced. The point for me to decide is whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
time Moneybarn supplied it to Mr M, in September 2020. If I havent commented on a particular point Mr M has raised, that doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. I want to reassure him that Ive thoroughly reviewed all the information hes 
provided. But in my decision, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the main issues in this 
case. 
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied?
Moneybarn have provided a copy of their records, showing Mr M got in touch on 8 October 
2020 to raise the following complaints about the car:
Advisory items shown on the MOT hadnt been put right
Damage to the wing mirror
No reversing camera fitted
Damage to the alloy wheels
Chipped windscreen
Engine management light on.
Mr M has also told us that the satellite navigation doesnt work. He believes the SD card he 
was given belongs to a different car.  
Ive considered whether these issues meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
1) Advisory items shown on the MOT 
Ive reviewed the cars MOT history. This shows a test was carried out on 30 July 2020, 
at which time the car was recorded to have travelled 101,621 miles. The following 
advisory issues were noted:
Nearside front tyre outer edge stepping
Nearside rear tyre worn close to legal limit/worn on edge
Both front brake disc edges corroded
Both rear brake disc edges corroded
Rear brake pads wearing thin.
Mr M says he asked the dealer to confirm that these advisory issues would be taken 
care of. Hes provided screenshots of text messages he sent the dealer about this, 
saying:
theres no way Ill be taking a car needing brakes and tyres Im not buying a 
car I need to spend money on basic maintenance pretty much straight away.
Theres no legal requirement for advisories shown on an MOT test to be repaired 
within any set time. They show components that are not defective yet but worn. This 
means it wont be long until they become defective. 
Im satisfied that the car had travelled between 2,000 and 5,000 more miles between the 
MOT test and the date it was supplied to Mr M. Although Ive seen no supporting 
evidence to confirm whether the brakes discs and pads were defective by that point, on 
balance, I consider it very likely that they were at least very close to the end of their 
serviceable lives. 
I accept that a reasonable person would expect brake discs and pads to require 
replacement from time to time, due to normal wear and tear. But I dont think theyd 
expect to have to do this within the first few weeks of buying the car. As reliable brakes are an essential safety feature, I think this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. 
Mr M has shown us a copy of a receipt dated 5 November 2020, confirming that he 
purchased new discs and pads for the car at a total cost of £693.59. Ive seen no 
evidence of any associated labour cost. I think its fair for Moneybarn to reimburse Mr M 
the full cost of the parts and labour involved in replacing the brake discs and pads, on 
production of invoices, receipts or other suitable evidence showing the expense he 
incurred.  
Mr M has also provided two photos, each showing a tyre with very little remaining tread, 
and an invoice for four new tyres.  Im unable to ascertain where or when these photos 
were taken, or the date the invoice was issued. In the absence of further evidence about 
this, Im not persuaded that it would be fair for Moneybarn to cover the cost of 
replacement tyres. 
2) Damage to the wing mirror
Mr M has provided a photo of the wing mirror. In this photo, part of the moulding that 
forms the wing mirror housing is missing, exposing the wiring. There are signs that this 
mirror housing has sustained an impact. Although I havent seen any evidence to 
confirm the date this photo was taken, Im satisfied that this was one of the first things 
Mr M complained about, around a week after he got the car. The damage doesnt 
appear to be recent. So, I think it most likely that this damage happened before the car 
was supplied to him. 
Bearing in mind the price of this car, I think a reasonable person would expect all parts 
of its exterior bodywork to be present, with any wiring concealed. So again, I think this 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. For that reason, I think its fair for 
Moneybarn to cover the cost of repairing this wing mirror.
3) Satellite navigation (satnav) not working
The dealers advert included a lengthy description of the cars features, including:
A spare key is present with the SD card for the navigation, sat navigation
Satellite navigation  SD card with dynamic route guidance and low CO2 routing. 
Given this description, I think Mr M was reasonably entitled to expect the satnav to be 
present and working. But as Ive seen no supporting evidence about the issue with the 
satnav or whats needed to fix it, Ive been unable to consider this any further. 
4) No reversing camera  
The dealers advert included a brief overview, which included the word revcam.
The section headed this car comes with included the description rear parking aid. 
I dont think its entirely clear from the advert whether the car came with a parking aid or 
a reversing camera. If this feature was particularly important to Mr M, I do think he could 
have checked this with the dealer before he signed the agreement. 
I dont think a reasonable person would consider this car to be of unsatisfactory quality 
because it had a parking aid instead of a reversing camera. So, I dont consider 
Moneybarn liable for the cost of fitting one. 5) Damage to the alloy wheels
Mr M has told us that the dealer promised the wheels would be refurbished before he 
got the car. But Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm this. 
Ive seen photos showing damage to the alloy wheels. Bearing in mind the car was five 
years old and had travelled over 100,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr M, I do think 
some minor scuffs and scratches to the alloy wheels were to be expected. So I dont 
think Moneybarn are liable to cover the cost of repairing this damage. 
6) Chipped windscreen
Ive seen no evidence showing a chip in the windscreen, so I havent considered this 
issue.
7) Warranty
Mr M says the warranty was of no use to him because it didnt cover the hourly rate the 
manufacturers garage charges for this car. 
Ive reviewed a copy of the agreement Mr M signed, showing a purchase price of 
£10,520. Ive also seen a copy of the dealers invoice, showing this figure included £360 
for the dealers warranty. So, Im satisfied that I can potentially consider this aspect of 
Mr Ms complaint.
But I havent seen any supporting evidence to show how the dealer described the 
warranty to Mr M, or what it in fact covers. So, Ive been unable to consider whether it 
was misrepresented to him.
8) Engine management light (EML) 
I think its fair to say Mr Ms main concern was that the EML came on within the first 20 
minutes of driving the car. I appreciate this would have been concerning for him. But I 
dont think this necessarily means there was a significant fault with the engine at that 
time. 
Cars have sensors to check everything is running smoothly. The EML might be triggered 
because a sensor detects a potential issue with the engine. There are a number of 
things that can cause this, ranging from minor issues to much more serious ones. But a 
broken sensor can also turn on the EML. 
Again, I bear in mind that this car was five years old and had already covered more than 
100,000 miles by the time it was supplied to Mr M. I think its reasonable to expect there 
may be some minor issues with a car thats already covered that sort of mileage. Ive 
considered whether any of the evidence shows there was a significant fault with the 
engine. 
Ive seen a copy of the garage receipt dated 1 October 2020 and the independent 
engineers report dated 30 October 2020. These documents both list the same six fault 
codes found to be stored in the cars electronic control unit (ECU). 
The garage receipt simply states that these were intermittent historic fault codes. It 
gives no further information as to what might have caused these codes to be generated, 
or whether any of them were due to recent or ongoing problems. So I dont consider this 
to show there was a fault with the car at that time. The independent engineers report also described the fault codes as intermittent and 
historic. It states:
there were no faults to be found with the vehicles performance or running, 
however there are evident fault codes stored in the vehicles ECU systems.
we would conclude that the vehicle has had intermittent problems with either the 
vehicles catalyst system or DPF, which would require further investigation with 
more in-depth diagnostics being carried out under workshop conditions. 
Such faults would generally become evident in the form of lack of power, limp 
mode and engine management light illumination.
In their final response to Mr Ms complaint, Moneybarn said they couldnt support his 
request to repair the car because the engineer hadnt been able to find a fault. But I note 
their letter went on to say:
I appreciate sometimes faults can be intermittent and therefore, should this issue 
arise again, can I ask that you get the vehicle diagnosed at that time and send me 
the diagnostics report for my review. I will be happy to re-open your complaint at 
that time, if appropriate.
I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Based on what Mr M has told us, my understanding is that the fault codes didnt come 
back on again after they were turned off and reset. I havent seen any information 
confirming when the fault codes were cleared and reset, or whether that involved further 
diagnostic or repair work. 
In the absence of further evidence about this, Im not persuaded that the EML and fault 
codes seen in October 2020 show there was a significant fault with the engine at that 
time.
And as Ive seen no evidence of work having been carried out to further investigate or fix 
the issue that caused the EML to come on, Im unable to assess whether Moneybarn 
would be liable to cover any costs that may have been incurred. 
Engine failure
In September 2021 Mr M told us that hed had to take the car to the manufacturers garage 
for diagnostics after it failed to start. He later provided a screenshot of a message confirming 
the outcome of that diagnostic check, saying: engine timing jumped, req new engine, and a 
videoclip made by a technician, expressing the same opinion.
The independent engineers report of the inspection in November 2022 states:
Due to the time that has elapsed and the mileage covered in the vehicle since purchase, 
we would not consider any reported faults with the vehicle to be present or developing at 
the point of inception. 
I think its important to note that the car had travelled around 118,951 miles by the time the 
engine failed. I do think its reasonable to expect that a car thats covered that kind of 
mileage may start to need more significant repairs. 
Although the precise mileage is disputed, Im satisfied that Mr M had somewhere in the 
region of 13,000 miles use of the car before the engine failed. I dont think hed have been 
able to cover that kind of mileage in the car if there was a significant fault with the engine 
when he got it. Mr M feels strongly that the fault with the timing chain was already developing when he got 
the car. Ive given careful thought to whether anything in the evidence supports this view. 
The report of the independent engineers reinspection of the car on 1 November 2022 sheds 
no light on what caused the engine to fail. It says:
The engine will need checking under workshop conditions and possible stripping to find 
the root cause of the fault with the vehicle.
The diagnostic report/invoice Mr M obtained from the mobile mechanic, dated 29 July 2022, 
confirms the engine was stripped down to inspect the condition of the timing chain. It says:
Found timing chain has not been replaced as per manufacturing guidelines of 100k 
approx. Original factory chain still fitted.
Mr M believes the engine failed because the dealer hadnt serviced the car in accordance 
with the manufacturers recommendations  which he says they promised him theyd do. 
Hes shown us a copy of the dealers service invoice. This is dated 28 September 2020 and 
records the car to have covered 103,712 miles. It says: Service carried as per schedule. 
Having seen the invoice Mr M was given, I do think he was entitled to expect the dealer to 
have serviced the car in line with the manufacturers recommendations. So, Ive reviewed 
what servicing the manufacturer recommended.
Servicing information for this vehicle is available online. This includes details of services 
carried out by manufacturers garages, and checklists showing which items the various 
services are recommended to cover. For this car, the last service that was recorded online 
was shown as an 84,000 mile / 96 months service. This was shown to have been carried out 
in December 2019, when the car had travelled 91,825 miles. 
Following the 84,000 mile / 96 months service, the manufacturers next recommended 
service would be at 105,000 mile or 120 months. Ive carefully reviewed the manufacturers 
checklist of service items, but Ive seen nothing to suggest replacement of the timing chain 
was recommended. 
Although I appreciate the mobile mechanic felt this should have been replaced, I find the 
manufacturers service checklists to be more persuasive. For this reason, Im not persuaded 
that the failure of the timing chain was due to inadequate servicing by the dealer.
Mr M points out that the MOT history for this car shows the EML was on when it was tested 
in July 2020. But as Ive explained, the EML can come on for a number of reasons. Ive seen 
no evidence to persuade me that it came on in July 2020 due to the same issue that caused 
the engine to fail, over a year later.
Mr M says the fact that the car was displaying a fault code relating to the cam position 
sensor in October 2020 shows the problem with the timing chain was already developing at 
that time. Having given careful thought to this point, Im not persuaded that this is what the 
evidence shows. 
The independent engineer reported the following information about stored fault codes found 
in October 2020 and November 2022:
October 2020 November 2022
P20EE-04:  Selective catalyst reduction Nox 
catalyst efficiency below threshold P007800:  Exhaust valve control circuit 
bank 1  intermittent codebank 1
P20EE-92:  Selective catalyst reduction Nox 
catalyst efficiency below threshold 
bank 1
P049B-00:  Exhaust gas recirculation 
insufficient flow detected
P0341-91:  Camshaft position sensor A circuit 
range performance bank 1 or 
single sensor
B1248-15:  Right rear turn signal
U2300-54:  Central configuration
U3000-63:  Control module intermittent
These are intermittent and historic fault codes.P261087:  Engine control module power 
train control module, internal 
engine off time performance  
intermittent code
P245208:  Diesel Particulate Filter 
differential pressure sensor 
circuit  pending code
P023A13:  Charger air coolant pump 
control circuit open  
intermittent code
P033531:  Crankshaft position sensor A 
circuit  pending code
I can see the cars electronic control unit had a stored fault code about the cam position 
sensor in October 2020. But I havent seen any evidence to confirm whether this was the 
reason the EML came on at that time, or whether this was simply historic information about a 
fault that had since been repaired. 
Nor have Ive seen any evidence to confirm whether the cam position sensor fault code was 
generated because the timing chain had started to stretch, or whether there were other 
issues that could have triggered it.
I also note that different fault codes were found in November 2022, after the timing chain 
was confirmed to have stretched/failed. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the timing chain fault was present or developing 
when Moneybarn supplied the car to Mr M. It follows that I dont consider Moneybarn to be 
liable for the cost of repairing that issue.
Putting things right
I dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M 
because I think he was entitled to expect the following components to have been in better 
condition:
Brake discs and pads,
Wing mirror housing.
Mr M has already shown us a copy of a receipt for the parts needed to replace the brake 
discs and pads. Ive seen no details as to any labour costs he incurred. I think it would be fair 
for Moneybarn to cover the full cost of replacing the discs, pads, and missing section of the 
wing mirror housing on production of an invoice, receipt or other suitable evidence showing 
the costs Mr M has incurred. 
I think Mr M has suffered some distress and inconvenience because the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Ive seen evidence showing hes had to arrange for repair work to be 
carried out and make a complaint to recover the cost hes incurred. I think Moneybarn should 
pay Mr M £150 compensation for this. 
I said I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Moneybarn to:
Reimburse Mr M £693.59 to cover the cost of replacement brake discs and pads.Reimburse Mr M the cost of fitting the replacement brake discs and pads, on 
production of an invoice, receipt, or other suitable evidence of this expense.
Reimburse Mr M the cost of replacing the missing section of the wing mirror housing, 
on production of an invoice, receipt, or other suitable evidence of this expense.
Interest should be added to each of the reimbursed amounts, calculated from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneybarn said they were happy to accept my provisional decision. They asked to see 
copies of the receipts showing the cost of replacing the brake discs, pads and missing 
section of the wing mirror housing, to help speed up the settlement process.
Mr T didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional information or comments in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Reimburse Mr M £693.59 to cover the cost of replacement brake discs and pads.
Reimburse Mr M the cost of fitting the replacement brake discs and pads, on 
production of an invoice, receipt, or other suitable evidence of this expense.
Reimburse Mr M the cost of replacing the missing section of the wing mirror housing, 
on production of an invoice, receipt, or other suitable evidence of this expense.
Interest should be added to each of the reimbursed amounts, calculated from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
If Moneybarn consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman