DRN-3089282
The complaint
Mr K complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner. He also complains that the lender failed to provide him with information about the 
terms of the loan and that it failed to treat him fairly when he faced problems repaying the 
loan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Mr K was given a single loan by ELL in September 2018. He borrowed £2,500 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr K faced problems repaying 
his loan and a balance remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
As well as his complaint about the original lending decision, Mr K has complained 
about how ELL treated him when he faced financial difficulties. In particular he says 
that the lender contacted his sister, providing details of his finances. And it made 
repeated attempts to contact him by telephone, including calling his work, when he 
had requested all contact be made in writing.
ELL gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mr Ks expenditure. It checked his credit 
file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how hed managed 
credit in the past. And it looked at Mr Ks bank statements to verify the information 
hed provided about his finances.
Mr K was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ks financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient for ELL to achieve that aim  I think the checks ELL did were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
I dont think that it was unreasonable for ELL to rely on some statistical data to help 
estimate Mr Ks expenditure. Hed explained that he was living at home with his 
parents, and wasnt paying board or rent. So I think it likely that any statistical data 
might have overestimated Mr Ks normal expenditure as he appears to have had 
little, or no, housing related costs. Mr Ks circumstances did differ a little from the 
norm since he was paying maintenance to an ex-partner in respect of a child, and he 
was paying childcare costs as well. But ELL accounted for those separately when it 
looked at Mr Ks disposable income.
ELLs estimates of Mr Ks disposable income suggested that he would have sufficient 
income each month to afford the new loan repayment, after taking account of the 
childcare costs, the estimates of his living expenses, and the amounts he was paying 
each month to other creditors. So I dont think it was unreasonable for ELL to 
conclude that Mr K would be able to afford his repayments.
But, there was further information shown by the credit check and Mr Ks bank 
statements that I think ELL needed to consider carefully.
Mr Ks bank statements showed that he was making a number of regular token 
payments to debt collection companies. Those would suggest that Mr K had faced 
problems managing his finances in the past and had not yet repaid the outstanding 
debts. Experience might suggest that consumers who have faced problems 
managing their finances in the past are more likely to do so again in the future.
The credit check results that ELL received added a little more information about the 
financial problems Mr K had faced. They showed that around three years earlier he 
had defaulted on a loan leaving a large outstanding balance. And they show that 
Mr K had defaulted on a much smaller overdraft on his bank account around a year 
before. But more recently Mr Ks finances appear to have been on a much more 
stable footing.
Mr K didnt appear to have been making use of any other high cost, or short term, 
lending at the time he asked for this loan. It is true that he held a number of credit 
cards, and on some his monthly balances were approaching his credit limit. But from 
the evidence of his bank statements the monthly repayments he was making were 
significantly in excess of the minimum hed be required to repay under the credit 
agreements.
Mr Ks bank statements showed a large number of unpaid transactions. But, as ELL 
annotated during its checks, the majority of those items didnt appear to have been 
returned unpaid as a result of a lack of funds. Instead it seems they were returned for 
other reasons  most likely a lack of appropriate authorisation such as a direct debit 
mandate. So I dont think those unpaid items should have caused the lender much 
concern. And there didnt appear to be any other significant problems such as 
excessive, or increasing, use of an overdraft.
On balance, although they raised some concerns, I dont currently think that the 
results of ELLs proportionate checks should have led the lender to conclude that 
Mr K was likely to face problems repaying the loan in a sustainable manner. So 
I dont currently think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr K.
Ive looked at the credit agreement that Mr K signed when he first took out the loan. 
That agreement, in a standard form, provided him with information about the amount 
he was borrowing and what he would need to repay, both in terms of the monthly 
cost, and the total cost over the loan term. So I cant agree that ELL failed to provide 
Mr K with the necessary information about his loan.
When Mr K took out the loan he provided ELL with details of three family members that the lender could contact if it had been unable to reach Mr K for a period of seven 
days. And he gave the lender details of his work telephone number too. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable, when Mr K failed to make the repayments that were due, 
that ELL tried to get in touch with him. And when those initial attempts failed, it 
doesnt seem unreasonable for ELL to try the other means it had of contacting Mr K, 
or asking a relative to ask Mr K to get in touch.
I appreciate that Mr K asked ELL to stop contacting him by telephone. And I dont 
think that is an unreasonable request, particularly given the nature of Mr Ks 
employment. But to balance that request I think Mr K also had a responsibility to 
respond promptly to any correspondence he might receive from the lender, and to 
keep the lender updated about any changes to his financial circumstances. I dont 
think it is wrong for a lender to expect a consumer to meet the repayments they had 
agreed to make, or to provide clear reasons, perhaps supported by independent 
evidence, of the reasons why the repayments might not be met.
When a consumer says they are facing financial difficulties the regulator would 
expect ELL to take steps to ensure that the borrower is treated fairly, with 
forbearance and with due consideration. But it is my understanding that the 
regulators guidance isnt intended to leave debts outstanding for an indefinite period 
of time. Instead the requirement for lenders to show forbearance and due 
consideration to consumers who are facing financial difficulties is to allow a 
reasonable period of breathing space for consumers, facing an unexpected fall in 
their disposable income, to review their options. I havent seen anything that makes 
me think that ELL treated Mr K unfairly at that time.
So in summary, although I appreciate my provisional decision will be disappointing 
for Mr K, I dont currently think ELL was wrong to give him the loan. I think ELL 
provided him with appropriate information about the terms of his borrowing. And 
I havent seen anything to make me think ELL treated Mr K unfairly when he faced 
problems making his repayments.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL has said that it doesnt have anything further to add to the case. 
Mr K hasnt responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I dont think ELL was 
wrong to give the loan to Mr K. I think ELL provided him with appropriate information about 
the terms of his borrowing. And I havent seen anything to make me think ELL treated Mr K 
unfairly when he faced problems making his repayments.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman