DRN-2853009
The complaint
Mr R complains that a mobile handset he bought was not delivered. He says that Home 
Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) is liable for his losses, as it provided him with the 
credit to pay for the phone.  
What happened
In January 2020 Mr R opened an Argos credit card account, provided and administered by 
HRG. At the same time, he used the account to buy an iPhone handset, which was to be 
delivered to his home. He received notice of the delivery slot, and a package was delivered 
from an Argos van a couple of days after he placed his order. 
The package was signed for and there were no signs that it had been tampered with. 
However, when he opened it, Mr R says that there was no phone inside it  just an empty 
box. He contacted Argos, which said it was satisfied the phone had been delivered as it 
should have been. He then complained to HRG as the finance provider; it said much the 
same thing as Argos had, so Mr R referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but was not persuaded that the 
handset was not delivered. He did not consider that HRG had treated Mr R unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R paid for the handset using credit provided by HRG. Because of that, the effect of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that, if Mr R has a claim for breach of contract 
against Argos, he has a like claim against HRG.
It was a term of Mr Rs contract with Argos that the phone would be delivered to Mr Rs 
address. Indeed, core elements of the agreement were that Argos would provide the phone 
and Mr R would pay for it. If, as Mr R says, the phone was not delivered, he has a claim for 
breach of contract against Argos and, under section 75, a like claim against HRG. I must 
therefore consider whether the phone was delivered.
Mr R says that a sealed package was delivered but that it contained an empty box. There 
was no sign that the package had been opened or tampered with. If there had been, I have 
no doubt Mr R would have checked the contents before signing for the package. Mr R says 
however that the box inside the package was empty. 
If Mr R is correct, I think there are two possibilities. They are:
The end supplier, Apple, sent a box without a handset in it. 
Somebody removed the handset at some point in the shipping process, in a way which 
did not leave any obvious trace.
Argos said that the package would have been weighed, although I have not seen any 
evidence to support that. Mr R has not suggested however that it was unusually light or that 
anything was in the box in place of a handset. The handset he ordered weighs 226g. 
Whilst the explanations I have suggested are not impossible, I think it is most unlikely that 
there was an error in the packing or that someone was able to remove the phone from its 
box without leaving any trace. I think it more likely than not that Mr Rs handset was 
delivered safely and in line with his agreement with Argos.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman