DRN-4003187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE lost their travel insurance claim 
documents and hasnt paid their claim. My references to Great Lakes include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had annual multi trip travel insurance which started on 27 August 2021, the 
insurer was Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs P were due to depart on a trip abroad in April 2022. But they say as the NHS 
hadnt correctly recorded that they had their Covid-19 booster vaccination, which was 
required for their travel, their departure was delayed for two days while they sorted out the 
incorrect record. On 16 May 2022 Mr and Mrs P made a claim on the policy for the costs of 
the missed days of their trip and the additional flight and transfer. 
At the end of July 2022 Mr and Mrs P chased Great Lakes who said it hadnt received the 
claim documents so they sent them again. Mr and Mrs P say they sent the claim documents 
both times using pre-addressed envelopes provided by Great Lakes. The second time they 
used recorded delivery which showed the documents were received by Great Lakes agent. 
The claim documents were lost when that agent sent the documents to another of 
Great Lakes agents.
Great Lakes accepted it hadnt provided the service Mr and Mrs P could expect. It 
apologised but said it still required the claim documents previously asked for before it could 
consider the claim.
Mr and Mrs P complained to us. In summary they said:
They had to call Great Lakes many times, going through the same details with lots of 
different people and Great Lakes didnt call them back when it said it would. Mrs P 
had been so upset about it all that its affected her health. 
Theyve twice sent the claim documents to Great Lakes so it should pay the claim as 
its had all the documents. 
Our investigator recommended Great Lakes pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience due to its service. She explained why we wouldnt tell 
Great Lakes whether or not to pay the claim at this stage. But she thought Great Lakes had 
enough information to tell Mr and Mrs P if the claim was covered by the policy. If the claim 
was potentially covered Great Lakes should help them obtain the documents needed to 
evidence the claim. Also if possible, Great Lakes should provide a single point of contact for 
Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P were disappointed we hadnt told Great Lakes to pay their claim. They said 
£150 was very little compared to the amount they're claiming. 
Great Lakes didnt accept our investigators recommendation. It said Mr and Mrs P had 
mistakenly sent the documents to one of its agents. That agent said it had sent the 
documents to another of its agents but the information hadnt been received by the other 
agent and that wasnt its fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that insurers must consider claims promptly 
and fairly. 
Im going to partly uphold the complaint as I think Great Lakes should pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs P for its poor service, but Im not going to make a finding in this decision as to 
whether Great Lakes should pay the claim. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
policy administrator and its agents. Great Lakes hasnt sent us a copy of the policy but Ive 
found a copy of the relevant policy on its website. The policy says the administrator acts on 
behalf of Great Lakes. So Great Lakes is accountable for the actions of the administrator 
and its agents. As one of the agents received the claim documents I dont accept that Mr and 
Mrs P sent them to the wrong place. And even if it was the agents error that caused Mr and 
Mrs Ps claim documents not to get to the right place to be assessed, Great Lakes is 
responsible for that error.
In its final response letter Great Lakes accepted it received Mr and Mrs Ps claim documents 
but the documents couldnt be found. It also accepted there were delays in it trying to find 
the lost documents. Great Lakes apologised, but I dont think an apology alone is enough to 
acknowledge the impact of its poor service on Mr and Mrs P.
Great Lakes internal claim notes show Mr and Mrs P needed to call it many times to try to 
find out what was happening with their claim and they spoke to several different people.  
When Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint the claim had been ongoing for 
five months. I havent seen any medical evidence as to how the stress of dealing with 
Great Lakes affected Mrs P. But the claim notes say Mrs  P was very upset about the loss 
of their claim documents and the delay. Also, its final response letter said its service had 
caused obvious frustration and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs P. 
In these circumstances I think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs P 
£150 compensation to acknowledge their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. 
I know Mr and Mrs P are claiming a much higher amount for their losses. I should make it 
clear that the £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience isnt for full or part 
payment of their claim, thats a separate issue. 
Mr and Mrs P say Great Lakes should pay their claim as it received their claim information 
and documents. Our investigator correctly explained that were not the claim handler and in 
this decision Im not going to tell Great Lakes whether or not it should pay the claim.
The policy doesnt all every situation and loss. The policy terms and conditions set out what 
Great Lakes will cover. Great Lakes needs to assess the claim and decide if its going to pay 
the claim. Its lost the claim documents but even without the documents I think Great Lakes 
has enough information about the claim circumstances to know whether it thinks the claim is 
covered by the policy terms and conditions on a fair and reasonable basis. I think it would be fair for Great Lakes to now tell Mr and Mrs P whether it thinks the claim 
could be covered and explain its decision to them.
If Great Lakes thinks the claim is potentially covered, and it needs the documents as 
evidence, Mr and Mrs P will need to provide those documents again. They say they sent 
original documents the second time. In the circumstances I think its fair for Great Lakes to 
assist them in getting duplicate documents if it can but Mr and Mrs P will still need to be 
involved in getting the documents. 
It would also help Mr and Mrs P if one person at Great Lakes could be their contact for the 
claim discussions, although as thats a business decision for Great Lakes I cant say that 
must happen. 
Once Great Lakes have told Mr and Mrs P whether or not it will cover the claim if Mr and 
Mrs P disagree they can complain about the claim outcome and ultimately make a separate 
complaint to us about the outcome of the claim.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation to acknowledge their distress and 
inconvenience due to its poor service. I direct Great Lakes to now tell Mr and Mrs P whether 
it thinks the claim could be covered by the poilcy terms and conditions on a fair and 
reasonable basis and explain its decision to them.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation to 
acknowledge their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to now tell Mr and Mrs P whether it thinks the claim could 
be covered by the poilcy terms and conditions on a fair and reasonable basis and explain its 
decision to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman