DRN-3920173
The complaint
Mr U complains that Vitality Health Limited maintained its decision to decline his claim 
against a private medical insurance plan. 
Mr Us father, who Ill refer to as Mr U1, is assisting him in bringing the complaint. Mr U1 has 
made the submissions in this complaint but Ill attribute them to Mr U, as its his complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr U has the benefit of private medical insurance via Mr U1s 
employer. Mr Us cover is on a continued personal medical exclusions and a continued 
moratorium basis, with effect from 8 January 2018.  
Mr U has pectus excavatum, a congenital condition in which his breastbone is sunken. In        
March 2022, Mr U saw his GP about the significant progression of his sunken 
breastbone. His GP referred him to a respiratory/cardiothoracic consultant. Mr U1 made 
a claim against the plan on Mr Us behalf in relation to that referral. 
In April 2022, Vitality declined the claim on the basis that Mr U wasnt suffering from an 
acute medical condition and that the referral was for preventative treatment  to check 
whether the condition would affect breathing in the future. Mr U complained about that 
and about Vitalitys delays in dealing with the matter. 
In the previous complaint, one of our investigators looked at what had happened. He 
didnt think that Vitality had acted unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said 
that the medical evidence indicated that Mr U wasnt having significant symptoms and 
that the GP made the referral based on cosmetic concerns. He said that if Mr U has 
further medical evidence, it would be reasonable for Vitality to consider it.  
Mr U1 provided Vitality with additional medical evidence  a referral dated                       
4 October 2022 from Mr Us GP to a respiratory/cardiothoracic consultant. Vitality 
maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said that the medical evidence confirms 
that Mr U doesnt have an acute medical condition, so the referral was to assess 
possible complications and therefore for preventative purposes, which isnt covered by 
the plan. Mr U made a new complaint about that. 
Mr U says that Vitality acted unfairly in continuing to decline the claim. He says that the 
GPs referral of 4 October 2022 says that his pectus excavatum has visually progressed, 
which is one of the symptoms of the condition. Mr U wants Vitality to cover the referral to 
a respiratory/cardiothoracic consultant. 
The investigator considered the new complaint. He said that Vitality hadnt acted unfairly 
in relying on an exclusion in relation to routine, precautionary or preventative 
examinations and preventative treatment. 
Mr U didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
He has a symptom  an indentation in his chest. 
Hes seen a consultant who said that the condition is quite severe and who 
referred him to a respiratory doctor. 
The referral wasnt for routine, precautionary or preventative examination or 
treatment. 
The main symptom of pectus excavatum is indentation in the chest, so rejection 
of the claim on the basis that there are no symptoms is incorrect.
The investigator hasnt dealt with his concerns about how Vitality handled the 
complaint and claim.
Mr U asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
In this decision, Im dealing with Mr Us complaint about Vitalitys decision in its final 
response of 23 November 2022 to maintain its position and continue to decline the claim 
following his provision of further medical information. Im not dealing with Vitalitys initial 
decision to decline the claim or Mr Us complaint about delay, as those issues were part of 
the previous complaint. 
Mr U is also concerned about how Vitality handled the complaint. Our service can only 
consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points that 
Mr U has raised about the handling of the complaint because it isnt a regulated activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr U1 in particular has very strong feelings about 
this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have 
read and considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed matters into a short narrative. That 
reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied that Ive 
captured the essence of what happened. I trust that neither Mr U nor Mr U1 will take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
Vitality acted fairly and reasonably in its decision to decline the claim in November 2022.   
the relevant terms and conditions 
Subject to the plan terms and conditions, Mr U has cover for eligible treatment of an acute 
condition, or an acute flare-up of a chronic condition. The plan doesnt cover chronic 
conditions. 
A chronic condition is defined as:
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
[]
it continues indefinitely
[]
An acute flare-up of a chronic condition is defined as:A sudden and unexpected deterioration of a chronic condition that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment that aims to restore you to your state of health immediately before 
suffering the acute flare-up. [] This does not include deterioration of a chronic condition 
where this is part of the normal progress of the illness, or recurring relapses of a chronic 
condition.
The plan doesnt cover precautionary or preventative examinations or treatment. The 
membership guide says as follows:
Exclusions  whats not covered
[]
Treatments, tests and appliances
We will not pay for the following treatments:
[]
routine, precautionary or preventative examinations [] or preventative treatment 
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that 
Vitality acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining the claim in November 2022. I say that 
because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of 
the agreed areas of cover. If the event is covered in principle but is declined on the 
basis of an exclusion set out in the terms and conditions the onus shifts to the 
insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
In its final response to Mr U1 of 23 November 2022, Vitality said that in the referral 
letter of 4 October 2022, Mr Us GP confirms that theres no acute symptoms. The 
GP said that Mr Us pectus excavatum had become more prominent as hed grown. 
And in the notes of the phone consultation of 3 March 2022, the GP recorded that 
Visually has progressed ++ over past few years. 
I agree with Mr U that an increase in the indentation of the chest is a symptom of 
pectus excavatum, but I dont think its an acute symptom, that is, a symptom that 
comes on rapidly. The GPs referral indicates that the change occurred gradually 
as Mr U grew and the notes of the phone consultation refer to progression over a 
few years. 
The GP goes on to record in the notes of the phone consultation of 3 March 2022  
that Mr U has no symptoms of chest pain, shortness of breath, fatigue, palpitations, 
wheeze or cough. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Vitality was at fault in concluding that   
Mr U didnt have acute symptoms. Theres no evidence to support a conclusion 
that Mr U had an acute flare-up of his chronic condition. 
The GPs referral letter of 4 October 2022 says that Mr U is concerned about the 
impact on his lungs and heart. Its quite understandable that Mr U and Mr U1 would wish to have the matter looked into. But Mr U had no symptoms relating to his 
lungs and heart at the time of the referral. I dont think that Vitality was at fault in 
relying on the exclusion relating to precautionary or preventative treatment. 
Considering everything, I dont think that Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
maintaining its decision to decline the claim following the additional medical 
information provided to Vitality. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman