DRN-3523017
The complaint
Mr H makes several complaints about Sterling McCall Wealth Management LLP which is 
now Tavistock Partners Limited (TP). His main complaint is about the service it provided to 
him in relation to his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
All references to TP will include the actions of Sterling McCall.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision, which was as 
follows:
In 2010, Mr Hs Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), joined Sterling McCall (now TP). At that 
time, Mr H had a SIPP. And in 2012, TP recommended a switch to a new provider due to a 
better charging structure. 
In September 2013, Mr H received a valuation of his new SIPP which showed this was 
valued at £19,609. In September 2014, Mr H was written to by TP regarding a review. The 
attached form provided options to request this be done either by telephone or face to face. 
Mr H responded on 29 September saying: we [Mr H and his partner] have not had a 
review in the last five years so why bother now?
In October 2014, the TP adviser contacted Mr H to discuss his (Mr Hs) concerns and said in 
a follow up letter to him: I can only apologise if you [Mr H] feel the methods of 
communications, such as annual reports, bi-annual statements and more recently 
newsletters aren't to your liking. The adviser also referred to the issue of exit fees which 
was raised by Mr H who said he was leaving TP in November 2015 for a new adviser. The 
adviser confirmed that no such fees applied. Mr H changed advisers in 2015.
In 2019, Mr H complained to TP about its service. In summary, he made the following points:
He was unhappy about the performance of the SIPP when he was with TP.
TP had failed to give him referral rights to our service following his complaint in 2014.
Since moving to a new adviser hes had yearly reviews but didnt get these from TP. 
He wants a refund of the fees he was charged.
Hes lost thousands of pounds due to transfer/ exit fees charged by TP.
TP shouldnt have referred to him when submitting information to this service relating 
to his partners case.
TP rejected Mr Hs complaint. In summary, it said:
In terms of the service it provided, in 2012 Mr H was recommended to switch from 
one SIPP provider to another to which he agreed. And in 2013 he was sent a 
valuation. In 2014 Mr H was offered a review but this was refused by him. In addition, 
Mr H wouldve received statements and newsletters whilst with TP.
Mr H and his partner were living at the same address and financially linked. This is 
why it sent information in its submissions to our service on his partners case.
When Mr H expressed his dissatisfaction in 2014, its adviser called him and thought 
the matter had been resolved. This is why no referral rights were given.
Mr Hs SIPP was invested in a defensive portfolio in line with his attitude to risk. This 
meant the growth rate of his investments didnt match the equity markets. The 
valuations it held showed his pension grew between 2010 and 2015.
Our investigator recommended upholding this complaint in part. In terms of Mr Hs main 
complaint, he noted that following the Financial Conduct Authoritys Retail Distribution 
Review (RDR) which came into effect on 31 December 2012, IFAs taking fees for a service 
needed to provide meaningful advice or reviews. He didnt think TP had done this for Mr H in 
2013. So, our investigator recommended TP refund Mr H fees for 2013 and pay him £100 in 
compensation.
TP disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an Ombudsman for a decision. 
Amongst other things, TP said our investigators view wasnt consistent with what the 
Ombudsman had decided in Mr Hs partners case. 
Both TP and Mr H have provided more information to this service since the investigators 
view, which was taken into account in my provisional decision. In this decision, I said I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. TP accepted this outcome. But Mr H said he didnt agree 
reiterating the points he made above. Further, in summary, he said:
He considered that if TP had dealt with his complaint when he first complained, he 
may have more evidence to prove his case. 
He thought the paperwork provided by TP to our service was shabby and should be 
more complete.
He also didnt understand why the view had changed from what the investigator had 
recommended. 
Mr H maintained that he shouldnt have been linked to his partners case. He 
believed TP has breached his data protection rights.
He questioned the investment decisions taken by TP on his behalf. He said the 
investments didnt grow and that if hed had reviews this would not have been the 
case as better investments would have performed better.
He didnt think a newsletter and other documents referred to by TP, could constitute 
a review.
His says he didnt sign the service agreement from 2013.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive taken on board everything that Mr H has said, he hasnt added anything more 
substantive than he had done previously. So, for the following reasons, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Ill start by saying my role here is to look at the circumstances of Mr Hs case. Whilst I know 
there is a link with his partners case, I will not be commenting on that case. An Ombudsman 
has made a final decision in that case. So, I cant comment on it and will not refer to any of 
its contents. What I will say is that every case we deal with here is decided on individual 
merits.In terms of what Mr H has said about the performance of his SIPP, I agree with what the 
investigator has said, our service doesnt normally consider issues about performance as 
this isnt something that can be guaranteed. Looking at what TP advised, the performance of 
Mr Hs fund looks broadly in line with what was selected for him based on his attitude to risk. 
I also note Mr Hs complaint about losing thousands of pounds due to TPs purported exit 
fees. However, Ive not seen any evidence from him that shows he actually paid any penalty 
or exit fees for transferring to a different IFA.
I know Mr H is unhappy about being referred to by TP in his partners case but as they were 
financially linked, this was unavoidable. Mr H says he cant remember agreeing to being 
linked with his partner whilst with TP. But I can see it sent written communication to him 
addressed to both him and his partner prior to him leaving in 2015. So, I think its more likely 
than not that if this was something Mr H wasnt happy with, he would have raised this with 
TP when he first raised concerns in 2014.
I also appreciate Mr H is unhappy that TP didnt provide him with referral rights in 2014, 
when he first raised concerns. I agree TP should have done so. But I cant see that Mr H has 
suffered any detriment due to this delay, as he has still been able to bring his complaint to 
our service albeit sometime later.
Turning now to Mr Hs main complaint, from what he has said TP failed to carry out reviews 
from 2009 to 2014. As our investigator has said, at the end of 2012 financial businesses 
became subject to stricter rules around the way it charged clients as a result of RDR. But 
because Mr H had a product with TP that started prior to 31 December 2012, TP could 
continue to receive the ongoing commission linked to the product which was sold prior to 
that date. 
In this case, 1% commission was taken from Mr Hs SIPP up until he left TP in 2015. I dont 
think the RDR meant TP had to provide any service that was different from the one it had 
agreed to provide to Mr H when he took out the SIPP.
Prior to RDR trail commission was a common way IFAs charged for the initial advice they 
gave. So, it wasnt necessarily linked to there being some ongoing service. However, TP has 
confirmed that prior to its takeover of Sterling McCall reviews were undertaken for clients in 
Mr Hs position.
TP has provided a copy of its service agreement from 2013 that Mr H would have had with 
Sterling McCall. This is the earliest document it is able to provide in this regard. Under 
ongoing services it says: We can offer you three levels of ongoing service designed to 
provide periodic reviews to ensure recommended products remain relevant to your 
circumstances. In Mr Hs case, due to the value of his SIPP, this entitled him to a review, an 
annual valuation and information pack.
TP has said the review could simply have been a telephone call with one of its advisers 
followed by it sending a valuation. Whilst documents prior to 2015 are limited, I can see 
valuations dated 2010, 2013 and 2014 were sent to Mr H. I can also see in 2012, that Mr H 
was provided with advice about a SIPP switch from one provider to another. And in 2014, 
due to having a more robust process, TP sent formal invites to clients when it was time for a 
review.
I also note the October 2014 letter sent by the adviser to Mr H said various communications 
had been sent to him (Mr H) which included annual reports, bi-annual statements and 
more recently newsletters. And the adviser noted in the telephone call with Mr H just 
before this letter was sent that: I explained that each contact point we make (statements/review packs posted previously/ newsletters is a trigger for all off (sic) my clients 
to make contact with me if required either on my mobileor email.
So, from what I can see, TP did keep in regular contact with Mr H whilst he was its client 
providing valuations and updates about the performance of his SIPP. Mr H says all he can 
remember receiving from his adviser is paperwork for him to sign. He says the last review 
was prior to 2009. But he also says the same adviser did talk to him about investments when 
these needed to be changed. And having paperwork to sign would suggest, for example, 
that some change had been made to his investments and/ or a review had taken place.
Overall, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that TP didnt act fairly or reasonably 
in terms of the service it provided to Mr H when he was its client up until 2015. I know Mr H 
says he is receiving a better service from his current IFA, but that doesnt mean TP was 
under any obligation to provide this same level of service for the same fees.
In terms of Mr Hs further points, I think most of these are adequately addressed above. But I 
note the following:
I appreciate Mr H doesnt agree with the change in outcome given the investigator 
said he should receive some compensation. But I have given my reasons for my 
decision and think this is a fair and reasonable outcome for this case. 
I agree the documents arent complete which is due to the passage of time. But I 
dont think any documents that may have existed from the time of Mr Hs original 
complaint in 2014, would likely have changed this outcome. 
Our service doesnt decide on whether a business has breached data protection 
laws. This is something for the Information Commissioners Office to decide. But I 
have addressed why I think TP has acted reasonably and fairly in terms of what it 
has provided to our service.
I know Mr H doesnt think the actions of TP as described above, amount to a review. 
But again, Ive already explained why I think it has provided the service Mr H was 
entitled to whilst he was its client.
Mr H is correct to say he didnt sign the 2013 agreement. But I think this document 
shows what service TP were likely obliged to provide to him at around that time. In 
my view, taking this and all the available evidence into account, I think TP has acted 
fairly and reasonably in regards to the service it provided to Mr H.
Im also satisfied with my explanation above about the performance of Mr Hs 
investments held in his SIPP. As I noted above, the performance wasnt guaranteed. 
And the fact the performance of his SIPP improved after he stopped being TPs 
client, isnt evidence of any wrongdoing on its part.
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman