DRN-3996924
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Currency Cloud Limited (TCCL) decided to close his account and 
took too long to release money held in the account back to him. Hes also unhappy about 
how TCCL handled things.
What happened
Mr S had a multi-currency account with TCCL, which he said he used for business purposes. 
In September 2021, TCCL reviewed Mr Ss account after it had received a fraud report from 
another bank concerning funds which were paid into Mr Ss account.  Whilst it completed its 
review TCCL blocked the account  which meant Mr S couldnt access the funds in his 
accounts.  At the time this was around £300 in various currencies.
TCCL spoke to Mr S regarding the notification from the other bank. He said it was a buyer 
seller dispute after hed provided services to a customer who wasnt satisfied. Mr S was 
happy for TCCL to return the money to person whod raised the dispute. TCCL sent the 
money back to source on 20 October 2021. 
Mr Ss accounts were blocked from 27 September 2021 until 17 December 2021 when 
TCCL returned the funds in Mr Ss account to him. And closed his account. 
During the time the account was blocked Mr S telephoned TCCL to try and find out what was 
happening with his account and the reasons behind TCCLs actions. TCCL didnt provide 
Mr S with much information and said it was acting in line with the terms of the account and 
regulatory obligations.  Mr S repeatedly asked TCCL to reopen his account. TCCL told Mr S 
it wasnt willing to provide him with an account.
Unhappy with this response Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He explained that the 
restrictions on his account had made it very difficult to manage as he used the account  to 
run his business. He also said that whenever he contacted TCCL the staff were rude and 
abusive to him. Mr S said that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. So, 
he said TCCL should pay him compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered as a result 
of TCCL blocking and closing his account. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought TCCL hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ss account. He said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations in doing so. And had treated him fairly when it decided to 
close the account. However, he said TCCL took too long to complete its review and couldve 
done things much quicker. So, she said TCCL should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the time it had taken to complete its review had caused him. And 
8% interest on the balance of Mr Ss account from 11 October 2021 until 17 December 2021 
for loss of use of the funds in the account.
Mr S disagreed. He said that the compensation didnt adequately reflect the amount of upset 
hed been caused. He said TCCL should pay at least £200 compensation. TCCL also 
disagreed. It said it hadnt taken too long to return Mr Ss funds. It explained that it had 
continued to review Mr Ss account and had to complete various administrative processes 
and exchange Mr Ss funds so that it could be paid into an overseas account. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me decide. On 13 February 
2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Ill deal first of all with TCCLs decision to restrict Mr Ss account whilst it looked into the 
concerns expressed to it by the other bank about payments Mr S had received into his 
account. Having looked at all the evidence, including  what Mr S said about the payment, I 
dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for TCCL to have acted in the way 
that it did. Fraud is a serious matter, and one way financial businesses and banks can help 
to tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments 
are received into them. And thats what happened here.
TCCL has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in 
line with what most financial businesses would do in the same situation. And it enabled 
TCCL to consider how best to react to the report it had received from the other bank.
Mr S was hoping to use his account to carry on providing business services  in other words to 
make money. And he needed to be able to meet the cost of his everyday living expenses 
including paying his rent. So, I can understand why he found this experience with TCCL 
stressful and upsetting. And why he wants the bank to pay him compensation.  
But as the investigator has already explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that TCCL was 
complying with its obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ss account. So, whilst I accept 
this caused Mr S inconvenience, I cant say TCCL treated him unfairly when it blocked his 
account. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr S compensation since I dont find 
TCCL acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.  
I understand that Mr S wants TCCL to provide a proper explanation for why it applied the 
block to his account in the first place. And I can see that Mr S asked TCCL to explain itself 
on several occasions. But TCCL is under no obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind the 
account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr S this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so. Having said that I can see that TCCL did speak to Mr S about the payment it sent 
back to source, so I think its likely Mr S had some understanding about why TCCL blocked 
his account in the first place.
However, while TCCL are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. TCCL initially blocked Mr Ss account in September 
2021. I can see that TCCL carried out a review and decided to send a payment back to 
source on 20 October 2021. However, following this, Mr Ss account remained blocked until 
17 December 2021, when TCCL returned his balance and closed his account. 
I cant see that TCCL asked Mr S for any more information or that it was conducting any 
further enquiries. From looking at TCCLs submissions it seems nothing further was done to 
move things along until mid-November 2021. Its also not clear to me why TCCL didnt take 
the actions it did on 17 December 2021  to close Mr Ss account and release his funds on 
20 October 2021 once it was able to return the funds to source. Especially as TCCL had 
already told Mr S in an email on 5 October 2021 that it was no longer willing to provide him 
with an account. So, Im satisfied, based on the information I currently have, that TCCL has 
caused unnecessary delays in releasing Mr Ss funds.The investigator has recommended that TCCL pay Mr S £100 compensation and 8% interest 
for taking too long to release Mr Ss funds. In response to the investigators view Mr S said 
that the compensation amount doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset he 
suffered. Mr S wants £200.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about how TCCLs actions impacted him. Ive no doubt 
this was a worrying and upsetting time for him but for me to award more compensation Id 
have to be satisfied that the delays caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience and 
financial loss. And despite being asked to do so Mr S hasnt provided evidence to support 
any financial losses that hes mentioned. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell TCCL to pay 
financial loss or compensation for something theres no evidence of.  
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact TCCLs 
actions have had on Mr S and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays caused by TCCL when it 
reviewed Mr Ss account caused him worry and upset. And I agree some compensation is 
appropriate for this. I say this because Mr S had to spend time contacting TCCL and had to 
wait nearly three months for TCCL to release his funds. So, I can appreciate this wouldve 
been  inconvenient and upsetting for him. And its only right that TCCL recognises this. 
However, Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Mr S was caused. So, while Mr S may disagree with me, Im satisfied that 
the £100 compensation recommended by the investigator recognises the impact TCCLs 
actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
As Ive already said, Im satisfied that TCCL should have released Mr Ss funds back to him 
on 20 October 2021. So, it should also pay Mr S 8% interest from this date until 17 
December 2021 to compensate him for loss of use of his funds. In reaching this conclusion 
Ive also kept in mind TCCLs submissions regarding how Mr S was operating his account. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr S wasnt entitled to the remaining funds in his 
account.
I then turn to the TCCLs decision to close Mr Ss account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed.
Having looked at all the information available to me, including TCCLs actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that their reason(s) for closing Mr Ss account sit within 
their commercial freedom. Im also satisfied that TCCL acted in line with the account terms 
and relevant regulations. So, I cant say TCCL has done anything wrong or treated 
Mr S unfairly when it closed his account. And I wont be asking TCCL to reopen Mr Ss 
account.
Mr S is also unhappy about the level of service TCCL provided to him when he was trying to 
sort things out with his account. Hes said that TCCL staff were rude and abusive to him. Ive 
listened to the call recording of available phone conversations that Mr S had with TCCL. And 
reviewed emails between them. I havent seen any evidence that TCCL were rude or 
abusive towards Mr S  in fact from what Ive read and from listening to calls its Mr S who behaved rudely and abusively towards TCCL. TCCLs advisors were polite, listened to Mr S 
and tried to be helpful by explaining that it wasnt willing to reopen an account for him. So, I 
cant TCCL provided Mr S with poor service. 
My provisional decision  was to uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct The Currency Cloud 
Limited to do the following to put things right
Pay Mr S a total of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time 
taken by The Currency Cloud Limited to return his account balance to him
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on Mr Ss account balance. The Currency 
Cloud Limited should calculate this from 20 October 2021 until 17 December 2021
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. TCCL didnt respond.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be partly upheld 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. Top put things right The Currency 
Cloud Limited should:
Pay Mr S a total of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time 
taken by The Currency Cloud Limited to return his account balance to him
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on Mr Ss account balance. The Currency 
Cloud Limited should calculate this from 20 October 2021 until 17 December 2021
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman