DRN-4232863
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In September 2022, Miss B met someone through an online dating site, who Ill refer to as 
the scammer. She communicated with the scammer via WhatsApp, building a friendly and 
trusting rapport as they got to know each other. They also spoke on the phone, which further 
convinced her the relationship was genuine.
After a couple of weeks, the scammer told Miss B it was a good time to invest in 
cryptocurrency. He said hed been investing for a long time and persuaded her to give it a 
try. He said his uncle worked in finance, which is why he knew so much about investing. He 
told her to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill 
refer to as C, and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. Between 20 
September 2022 and 28 September 2022, she made six payments to C totalling £90,000 via 
online transfer from her Monzo account.
She started with a deposit of around £1,000, which came from another of her bank accounts 
and on 20 September 2022, she agreed to invest £20,000, which she transferred to the 
cryptocurrency exchange from her Monzo account. After making the payment, she saw pop-
up messages regarding opportunities to double her money, but she didnt have the money, 
so the scammer deposited £75,000 into her wallet. She then took out a loan for £25,000 
(telling her bank the money was for home improvements), which she used to buy more 
cryptocurrency.  
When Miss B decided she wanted to make a withdrawal, she was told she needed to pay a 
gold certification fee, which couldnt be paid using money from her account. She made 
various attempts to pay the fee before realising shed been the victim of a scam.
Miss B complained to Monzo, but it refused to refund any money. It said the transfers were 
to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, so no loss occurred from her Monzo account. It 
also said she didnt do enough research and when she sent money via the Monzo app, she 
would have received a warning message instructing her to make sure the payee was safe 
and that legitimate investments arent arranged over social media.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. The representative said Monzo should have intervened as Miss B had made 
six payments to a new payee linked to cryptocurrency that totalled £90,000 within the space 
of eight days. They argued the payments were extremely out of character and should have 
been flagged for additional questioning. 
Specifically, they said the first payment of £20,000 should have been flagged because it was 
high value and to a new payee, and Monzo should have intervened and given her an 
effective warning. The representative said it should have contacted Miss B to ask questions 
around the purpose of the payment, the checks shed undertaken, whether she was being 
advised by a third party and whether shed received any withdrawals, and with the 
information it should have realised Miss B was likely falling victim to an elaborate investment 
scam through somebody she met on a dating app. 
They said Miss B hadnt been coached to lie and so Monzo could have identified that the 
payment had the typical hallmarks of a dating scam, and so it should have explained how 
scams can look and feel, how they operate and the fact that money is paid to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange didnt mean the money was safe.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She agreed the £20,000 
payment should have been flagged, so Monzo had missed an opportunity to intervene in 
circumstances which could have prevented her loss. But she thought the settlement should 
be reduced for contributory negligence because Miss B had been promised unrealistic 
returns and didnt check the investment company to which she was sending such large 
funds. She also noted Miss B had concerns around how quickly the scammer had declared 
his feelings and had told her to lie about why she wanted the loan. So, she thought the 
settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
Miss Bs representative has said the settlement shouldnt be reduced by 50% because she 
did due diligence and was feeling stressed at the time of the scam because she was facing 
redundancy, which would have affected her judgement. Theyve said if Monzo had done 
what was expected of it, the spell of the scam could have been broken.
Monzo has said it would be prepared to pay 50% from the third payment onwards arguing 
Miss B had applied for the account limit to be increased on two occasions, each time stating 
the increases were for home improvements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for broadly the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss B has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss B says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were transferred to an account in Miss Bs name, and Im 
satisfied thats fair.
Im satisfied Miss B authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Miss B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was a scam But, 
although Miss B didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the disputed 
payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Monzo 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss B when she 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Monzo to intervene with a view to protecting Miss B from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Monzos systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Miss B 
normally ran her account, and I think they were. All the payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company, but the first payment was for £20,000 which is very high, 
especially as there were no payments out of the account in the three months before the start 
of the scam period. Monzo said it was prepared to refund Miss B 50% from the third 
payment onwards, however I think it should have intervened when she made the first 
payment.
I would expect Monzo to have contacted Miss B to ask some probing questions around the 
purpose and circumstances of the payments and to have provided a full scam warning. 
Based on the fact she lied when she took out the loan and she told Monzo the account 
increases were for home improvements, our investigator was concerned that Miss B 
wouldnt have told the truth if she was asked questions about the payment. However, the 
loan application required her to answer standard questions to identify the purpose of the 
lending, which isnt the same as being asked probing questions about a very high-risk 
payment.
And even if she wasnt entirely open, this was a very large payment to a cryptocurrency 
merchant from an account that hadnt been used in the three months prior and I would 
expect Monzo to have been very clear about the fact the payment was very high risk and 
that it was very common for scammers to tell victims to lie to their bank. I would also expect 
it to have warned her that the existence of a third party was a red-flag and that it wouldnt be 
usual to take investment advice from someone shed met online. It should also have asked 
her why she was paying a cryptocurrency merchant having said the account increases were 
for home improvements. 
Miss B wasnt honest when she took out the loan, but I dont think it follows that she wouldnt 
have listened to advice from Monzo about the inherent risks associated with cryptocurrency 
investments. She was investing a lot of money and I havent seen any evidence she was 
keen to take risks, particularly as she was saving for a deposit for a house. Theres also 
evidence that she thought the relationship with the scammer was moving quickly and she hadnt even met him, so I dont think she was under his spell to the extent that she would 
have ignored a strong warning and advice from Monzo about the red flags she should be 
looking out for. 
Miss B didnt have a history of high-risk investing and I think that if shed had any inkling this 
might be a scam, shed have realised shed been communicating with a scammer and she 
most likely would have reconsidered her decision to make the payments. Consequently, I 
think it missed an opportunity to intervene and prevent the scam. So, it should refund the 
money she lost from that date onwards. 
Contributory Negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence. I understand Miss B was worried about being made 
redundant, but this isnt an excuse for failing to take reasonable care that the investment 
wasnt a scam. 
In total, Miss B paid £90,000 on the strength of what she was told by someone shed 
recently met online and who shed never met. While I accept this was a sophisticated scam 
and that Miss B had no prior experience of cryptocurrency, I think it was unreasonable for 
her to have gone ahead with the investment, particularly as the scammer advised her to lie 
to obtain a loan and had supposedly given her money towards the investment, which was 
wholly unrealistic and should have raised concerns.
 
Ive stated above that Miss B had reservations about the fact the relationship was moving so 
quickly and that I think this means shed have listened to a warning. Equally, the fact she 
went ahead notwithstanding she had reservations about the relationship means she didnt 
take reasonable steps to protect herself against the risk of fraud.
So, even though I think Monzo should have intervened when she made the first payment 
and that this represented a missed opportunity to have prevented her loss, I agree with our 
investigator that the settlement should be reduced to reflect the fact Miss B ought reasonably 
to have questioned what she was told by the scammer and that her failure to do so 
contributed to her own loss.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Plc to pay
£90,000 for disputed payments made between 20 September 2022 and 28 
September 2022. This settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory 
negligence.
pay 8% interest on funds transferred into the Monzo account from another account in 
Miss Bs name from the date of payment on until the date of settlement.
pay the savings account interest on funds from the Monzo savings account from the 
date of the payments until the date of settlement.
pay the interest that has been applied to the loan. 
pay 8% interest on the payments Miss B has made to the loan. 
no interest to be paid for the payments funded by loans from friends and family.*If Monzo Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Miss B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman