DRN-2522732
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc, trading as Whistletree, didnt tell them that their 
monthly mortgage payments would increase after taking a payment holiday.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs H took a payment holiday on their mortgage because Mrs H 
wasnt able to work due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 18 April 2020 Mr H contacted 
Whistletree again, and a further payment holiday was agreed for May and June 2020.
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs H complained. They said Whistletree hadnt told them during Mr 
Hs call in April that they would have to pay an additional £13 per month for the rest of the 
mortgage term after the payment holiday ended. Mr and Mrs H want to be compensated for 
this along with the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Following our involvement, Whistletree said it told Mr H about the implications of a payment 
holiday during the call on 18 April 2020. It also said it sent letters to Mr and Mrs H later, 
setting out the changes to their monthly payments because of the payment holiday. 
Our investigator didnt think Whistletree had done anything wrong. He found that it hadnt 
told Mr and Mrs H in advance exactly how much their monthly mortgage payments would 
increase by once the payment holiday ended  but he didnt think it could have known that, 
given the variables involved. He listened to the call of 18 April 2020 and concluded that 
Whistletree had done enough to make Mr and Mrs H aware of the implications of deferring 
their payments. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for their complaint to be reviewed. They still thought it 
hadnt been made clear to them that they would be paying more towards their mortgage 
each month after the payment holiday.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 20 March 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published specific guidance for 
lenders with regards to mortgages. The guidance was aimed at helping mortgage borrowers 
whose financial circumstances had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance 
said that lenders should offer a payment holiday where appropriate. It also said they should 
give borrowers adequate information to understand the implications of a payment holiday, 
including any consequences for the borrowers monthly payments and mortgage term. 
Ive listened to the call Mr H had with Whistletree on 18 April 2020 when the payment holiday 
was agreed. Im satisfied that, during this call, Whistletree explained how a payment holiday 
worked and that this would have implications for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. It told Mr H that 
interest would continue to be charged on the mortgage, the outstanding balance would 
increase, and because of this the overall amount of interest he would pay over the term 
would increase. It also said that once the payment deferral had ended it would get in touch 
to discuss with Mr and Mrs H how the deferred payments would be repaid. The letters 
Whistletree sent Mr and Mrs H later, in June and July 2020, reflect all of this and set out the 
options for repayment. 
I can understand that Mr and Mrs H were unhappy to find that their monthly payments 
increased once the payment holiday ended. But the payment holiday didnt mean they 
wouldnt have to pay back the payments they hadnt made. In taking a payment holiday, 
what Mr and Mrs H were doing was simply deferring their payments. Those payments would 
need to be made at some point, and Whistletree was entitled to continue charging interest 
on the mortgage balance  which was slightly higher than it would otherwise have been 
because of the payment holiday. 
Its not clear why Whistletree didnt send Mr and Mrs H a letter confirming the arrangement 
in April 2020, as it had done the previous month. In any event, it couldnt have told Mr and 
Mrs H in April 2020 exactly how much their monthly payments would increase by, because it 
couldnt have known that at the time. As the investigator pointed out, there were variables 
involved, such as whether the payment holiday might have been extended and what 
payments Mr and Mrs H were able to make. I note that Mr and Mrs H were able to make 
some payments in May and June 2020. A term extension might also have been an option in 
order to avoid higher monthly payments. 
In all the circumstances, I find Whistletree did enough to explain the implications of the 
payment holiday. In any event, I dont consider Mr and Mrs H have lost out financially as a 
result of taking the holiday, given that they were struggling with their mortgage payments at 
the time. I make no order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman