DRN-3970039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy. 
Reference to Lloyds includes agents acting on its behalf. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs M returned home from a holiday to find their bathroom flooded. 
They made a claim to Lloyds under their home insurance policy and Lloyds appointed 
agents to carry out a survey and take action to repair the damage caused by the escape of 
water. Progress was slow and Mr and Mrs M complained in December 2021 about the way 
the claim was being handled. Lloyds upheld the complaint in January 2022 and paid Mr and 
Mrs M £450, saying it agreed their claim hadnt been managed proactively.
Progress on the repairs continued to be slow and Mr and Mrs M had a further leak in the 
bathroom in April 2022. Lloyds carried out a further survey and it paid Mr and Mrs M £150 for 
not doing enough to progress the claim. Two further payments of £150 were made in June 
and September 2022 in recognition of the lack of progress and poor communication. Mr and 
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They said they just 
wanted Lloyds to complete the work to repair their bathroom.
Our investigator said this service couldnt look at events before January 2022 because 
Mr and Mrs M hadnt referred that complaint to this service within six months of Lloyds final 
response on those matters. But she could consider events after that date. She didnt think 
Lloyds was responsible for the second leak in April 2022 but agreed there had been a 
number of failings in the way it had handled the claim. She thought the total amount of £450 
Lloyds had paid after January 2022 was fair but suggested Lloyds needed to have a face-to-
face consultation with Mr and Mrs M to get matters back on track.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view and so their complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision. I looked separately at whether or not this service could 
look at events before January 2022 and I sent a decision on that jurisdictional matter to 
Mr and Mrs M earlier this month. This decision will solely focus on events after Lloyds issued 
its final response of January 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have raised a number of points in their complaint. I wont set out every detail 
theyve mentioned but Id like to reassure them that I have read through all the information 
we have on file even though Ill only focus on the key points theyve raised. 
Unfortunately for policyholders, this sort of claim can take a while to resolve because of the 
need to assess the damage, remove any damaged items and then appoint agents to carry 
out the repairs. But Id expect insurers to progress claims of this nature quickly and efficiently 
and, in this case, I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are so upset that the process of 
investigating and repairing their property has taken so much longer than it needed to.
By January 2002, Lloyds had already had seven months to repair the damage, but it had 
made very little progress. In its final response of January 2022 Lloyds acknowledged it 
hadnt handled the claim very well and it took action to get matters back on track. It said it 
would prepare the cash settlement Mr and Mrs M had asked for. And its agents would be in 
touch in a few days time to discuss the flooring. 
Mr and Mrs M then spoke to the agents and agreed to continue with them rather than take a 
cash settlement. The agents agreed to seal the gap between the wall and the floor, and they 
discussed the flooring, wall tiles and the bath panel. But very little progress was made over 
the next couple of months. 
The second leak
In April 2002 there was another leak in the bathroom and a third-party engineer attended to 
fix it. Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds again. They said the surveyor who subsequently 
investigated the situation told them the leak had been caused by Lloydss agents failing to 
seal the screws sufficiently when putting the cistern back on the wall. They were also upset 
with the lack of progress on their claim and the poor workmanship carried out by the agents. 
Theyd lost faith in the agents and didnt want them to attend any more. 
Is it fair to ask Lloyds to take responsibility for this second leak? On balance, I dont think so. 
While I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs M say they were told by the surveyor, the receipt from 
the third-party engineer only says they replaced the ball valve and lowered the overflow pipe 
inside the cistern. It doesnt say what caused the leak. And the surveyors report says the 
toilet cistern overflowed due to a faulty float valve and wasnt related to the workmanship. 
They noted that the valve had been replaced, which tallies with the receipt from the 
third-party engineer. The evidence is contradictory but, in light of the evidence, I think it 
would be unfair to hold Lloyds responsible for the second leak.  
The period between January and April
While I dont think Lloyds should take responsibility for the second leak, it should take 
responsibility for the poor workmanship the surveyor identified in his April 2022 report and 
the lack of progress that had been made up to this point. The surveyor said the floor had 
been installed incorrectly, and noted the gap between the wall and the bath had yet to be 
sealed. There were also problems sourcing the right wall tiles and bath panel but its unclear 
why there was such a delay over this period. I think it was right that Lloyds took responsibility 
for the lack of progress. It apologised for the service it had provided and paid Mr and Mrs M 
£150 in April 2022.
The period between April and October
Lloyds instructed a different agent but, again, very little work was done for about two months. 
Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs M a further £150 in June 2002 for the lack of progress. The agent 
then suggested replacing the carpet with tiles to avoid having to replace all of the wall tiles. 
Work was supposed to start at the end of June but nothing had happened by the end of 
August. Again, its unclear why there was such a long delay. There were discussions about 
the type of floor tile to use and when Mr and Mrs M realised floor tiles would cause a 
potential trip hazard for a disabled relative, the discussion moved to other options. They 
remained unhappy with the lack of progress and raised another complaint with Lloyds. 
Lloyds paid them a further £150 because it acknowledged it hadnt kept Mr and Mrs M updated and there had been little progress made. Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to 
this service in October 2022.
Summary
Overall, Lloyds hasnt handled Mr and Mrs Ms claim well and must take responsibility for the 
delays it could have avoided, and for the poor service its provided. Lloyds has accepted its 
provided a poor service. Its apologised and paid a total of £450 over the period from 
January to October 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt complain in order to receive compensation. The outcome 
they want is for their claim to be progressed as quickly and efficiently as possible. That is 
understandable but its for an insurer to decide how to manage its claims and its not for me 
to decide how best to complete the repairs. But in light of the time its taken to complete 
these repairs, I do think Lloyds should take swift action to get things back on track. And 
arranging a meeting with them to agree the next actions would be the logical next step, if 
that hasnt already happened.
When things go wrong, I think its right that businesses should look to compensate the 
consumer for any distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. In this case, there 
were avoidable delays that meant work on Mr and Mrs Ms property wasnt progressed as 
quickly and efficiently as it should have been. And at times the communication with Mr and 
Mrs M wasnt as good as it should have been either. Id expect Lloyds to help them make 
decisions on flooring, tile and bath panel options. And it doesnt seem as though the 
consequence of using floor tiles (thus raising the floor level and causing a potential trip 
hazard) had been fully explained to Mr and Mrs M when they discussed that option.
Because of the poor service identified above, Mr and Mrs M have been waiting far longer 
than they should have been to have their bathroom repaired. Theyve said its been 
inconvenient to have a bathroom that wouldnt look out of place on a building site, its been 
embarrassing when they have visitors and its caused them extreme anxiety. So, I think its 
right that Lloyds should pay compensation for the impact its had on them. Lloyds has paid 
Mr and Mrs M a total of £450 to recognise the impact on them of its poor service between 
January and October 2022. And, in light of the particular circumstances of this case, I think 
that amount is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has paid Mr and Mrs M a total of £450 for the poor 
service it provided between January and October 2022, and I think that amount is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman