DRN-1602160
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that DMR Financial Services Ltd havent pursued or kept him updated 
about his payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr P said he authorised DMR to act on his behalf to pursue any PPI claims 
he might have. Mr P said he gave details of the lenders that he thought he had PPI policies 
with to DMR. For one of his lenders, Ill call C he said hed a successful PPI claim. And 
DMR charged him their success fee, which Mr P said hed paid. But Mr P said hed heard 
nothing more about his claim with another lender Ill call M.
Mr P complained to DMR but heard nothing. He referred his complaint to us.
Mr P said he has since been in contact with lender M, and theyve said his claim is still 
being investigated.
Our investigator asked DMR for information about Mr Ps PPI claim, but they havent replied. 
She said Mr P hadnt lost the opportunity to make his PPI claim as lender M was still 
investigating it. But she said DMR hadnt kept Mr P informed about what was happening to 
his claim. And said they should compensate Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset this had 
caused him.
Mr P agreed with our investigator. But DMR didnt respond. The complaint has been referred 
to me as an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
DMR hasnt responded to any request for information. So, Ive based my decision on the 
evidence I have. 
I can see that Mr P authorised DMR to act on his behalf to pursue PPI claims. In March 
2018, DMR sent Mr P a welcome letter. And Ive seen a letter of authority (LoA) signed by 
Mr P and DMRs terms and conditions. Mr P had asked DMR to pursue claims with several 
lenders, across mortgage accounts and credit cards. This included lender C and lender 
M. 
I think DMR did make a PPI claim on behalf of Mr P, as in May 2018, lender M told Mr P 
they werent able to locate his account and needed further information. And later the same 
month asked him to provide  specific details. In June 2018 Mr P supplied the additional 
information and at the same time informed DMR of what hed been asked for and what hed included in his reply. Mr P also expressed concern about trying to provide the details of the 
account due to the time that had elapsed.  I havent seen any evidence that DMR replied to 
him or that they looked to help him or liaise with lender M for him.
In November 2018 Mr P informed DMR of a change of address and he asked for an update 
as hed yet to get information from them. DMR didnt reply, and with the passing of the 
August 2019 deadline for making PPI claims, Mr P asked lender M for an update as he was 
concerned, he had lost the opportunity to claim. In November 2019, lender M said that his 
claim was still under investigation.
I think DMR, after Mr P gave them authorisation in March 2018, made a PPI claim  with 
lender M, But as  lender M was having difficulty in locating Mr Ps account I think DMR 
stopped pursuing the claim. But the claim itself is still being actively investigated by lender 
M.
So, I dont think Mr P has lost the opportunity to have his PPI claim with lender M looked at. 
But I do think DMR havent been fair or reasonable in updating Mr P about the status of his 
claim. And whether they are or arent still acting as his representative.
I do think the void of information has caused Mr P trouble and upset as he didnt know what 
was happening with his claim. So, I think DMR should pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and 
upset this has caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask DMR Financial to pay Mr P £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman