DRN-3980521
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (who Ill call MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBFS, but I think they need to take action here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 26,200 miles. So, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might have already suffered wear and 
tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a 
car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider whether a car has been of 
satisfactory quality we should consider whether it has been durable. I dont think the car 
supplied to Miss M has been durable.
I say that because I dont think a reasonable person would expect to replace the front brake 
pads and discs four times over the course of a little over 10,000 miles of driving. Nor do I 
think a reasonable person would expect to replace the wheel bearings on three occasions in 
that period.
MBFS have explained that when Miss M took the car to the garage in December 2022 the 
dealership noted the tyres were mixed and the wheels had been over torqued. But that post 
dated the issues Ive referred to above, and the garage identified that in May 2022 the tyres 
were correct. So I dont think the mixed tyres could realistically be considered to have 
contributed to the problems Miss M had been having, and as the tyres had clearly been 
replaced, and the wheel would have been removed after the May 2022 visit, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to suggest there was evidence the wheels were over torqued in May 2022 or 
before that, when the problems Miss M is complaining about were occurring.
Putting things right
As the business have tried, and failed to repair the issues with the car, I think they should 
now allow Miss M to reject it and to end her finance agreement. Theyll need to take the car 
back at no cost to Miss M.
Theyll also need to refund any deposit Miss M has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on many occasions and in the meantime shes had to put up with the car 
juddering. MBFS offered her £250 to compensate her for the distress, inconvenience, and 
loss of enjoyment shed experienced, but I dont think that was sufficient in the 
circumstances and I would agree with the investigators suggestion that £400 better reflects 
the issues Miss M has had.
MBFS will need to refund the instalments Miss M paid towards her agreement with them, but 
the relevant legislation allows them to retain some of those instalments in respect of the use 
Miss M has had from the car. Its clear Miss M has been able to drive the car and that shes 
been kept mobile with a courtesy vehicle when the car has been in the garage. Burt her use 
of the car will have been impaired by the juddering she experienced. In all the circumstances 
I think MBFS should be allowed to retain 80% of the finance instalments Miss M has paid but 
they will need to refund the rest and will need to add interest to the refund.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Miss M.
Refund Miss Ms deposit/part exchange contribution of £3,000 and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 20% of rentals in respect of loss of use and add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss M £400 to compensate her for the distress, inconvenience, and loss of 
enjoyment shed experienced (MBFS may deduct £250 if theyve already paid that).Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Miss Ms credit file as a 
result of this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman