DRN-3217000
The complaint
Mr W complains Investec Bank Plcs approach to strong customer authentication means that 
his internet account is no longer truly an internet account. He says that means there are 
times when he wont be able to use his account when he should be able to.
What happened
Mr W has five savings accounts with Investec (although hes told us that Investec is now 
paying him zero interest on these accounts as the product he had has been withdrawn). He 
can only withdraw money from these accounts giving three months notice and no payments 
(standing orders, direct debits, or card payments, for example) can be made from them.
Mr W has told us that he doesnt have a mobile phone. Hes also told us that he was happy 
with the service he received from Investec until it migrated to an internet platform  see 
below  and ceased its Saturday telephone service. He said that decision made any 
telephone questions not only inconvenient but also costly  particularly if he was to call from 
abroad whilst travelling.
In 2016 Mr W complained to Investec about its plans to migrate to an internet platform that 
would rely on mobile phones. He says he was told that Investec would disable the need for a 
one-time passcode given that he didnt have a mobile phone meaning hed still be able to 
check his account. In other words, he was told that hed have read-only access for his 
accounts  thats been the position for several years.
In May 2019 Mr W complained to Investec about its plans to use mobile phones to 
authenticate their customers. Investec had written to its customers to say that theyd need to 
be able to authenticate through a one-time passcode sent to their mobile or through its in-
app authentication. Investec had said customers who werent able to authenticate in either of 
these two ways wouldnt be able to get online access to their accounts. He also asked 
Investec to send him his statements on a monthly basis so he could at least check his 
account once a month whilst the issue of him being able to access his account online was 
resolved. Mr W and Investec exchanged several emails about the issues Mr W was 
complaining about.
In July 2019 Investec sent a final response to Mr W saying that it hadnt upheld his 
complaint. Mr W and Investec continued to correspond after this, about strong customer 
authentication amongst other things.
In December 2019 Investec sent what Mr W thought was a second final response saying 
that on 14 September 2019 new requirements for authenticating online payments were 
introduced in Europe as part of the second Payment Services Directive. Investec said that it 
had played an active role within the industry discussing and consulting on the new 
requirements. Having done so, Investec said it had decided to authenticate its customers 
through a one-time passcode sent to a mobile or through its in-app authentication, as these 
methods suited its customer base. Investec said that it believed these changes were 
consistent with those that many banks in the industry would be making and that Mr W 
wouldnt be able to operate his accounts online unless he used one of those two methods. 
Investec said that it could see that Mr W had logged in and used his internet banking four 
times in 2019 and that he could still manage his accounts through its telephone banking / 
paper statements. Investec said to us that Mr W could call its customer services or email 
them a request if he wanted to do so, and statements could be sent in any format including 
by email or in paper form.Mr W subsequently complained to us in June 2020  more than six months after hed been 
sent Investecs initial final response  normally complaints have to be referred to us within 
six months of a final response otherwise we might not be able to consider them. He said that 
until Investec offered at least one genuine internet (only) based method of authentication 
there would always be scenarios when customers didnt have a viable authentication option. 
He said that it had introduced options based on sunny day scenarios that would work for 
most of the people most of the time but not always. He gave examples of when the options 
offered wouldnt work, including when he was travelling. Investec ultimately consented to us 
looking at Mr Ws complaint  after some debate over whether we could do so or not, so Im 
satisfied were able to look into Mr Ws complaint even if it was referred to us more than six 
months after Investecs final response.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and said that they didnt think Investec had 
acted unfairly when it had said that in order to authenticate Mr W would have to use a mobile 
phone or its in-app authentication. They didnt think guidance that the FCA has issued on 
authentication applied to an account like the ones Mr W holds as they arent payment 
accounts  nor the relevant part of the Payment Services Regulations to which that guidance 
relates  and didnt think Investec had been unfair or unreasonable given the limited number 
of times Mr W typically logged in and the nature of his accounts. Mr W disagreed with our 
investigator, saying that all Investec had to do was offer a method of authentication that 
works when its customers have internet access only, and that unless and until they did so 
there would be times when he wouldnt be able to access his accounts online. For example, 
when travelling abroad. He said that relying on a mobile phone meant his accounts were no 
longer internet based accounts. He didnt think how hed used the accounts in the past was 
relevant either.
In March 2021, Mr W says Investec said it would be closing the type of account that he held 
and would be moving to an online account for which its customers would need to supply a 
mobile number belonging to a smartphone. As Mr W disagreed with our investigators view 
on the complaint that he referred to us in June 2020, an ombudsman was asked to look at 
that complaint. So thats what Im going to do. I havent looked at whether or not Investec 
acted unfairly saying that it would be closing the type of account Mr W held and moving to an 
online account for which its customers need to supply a mobile number belonging to a 
smartphone as that will need to be dealt with as a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In 2019, Investec contacted its customers, including Mr W, to explain that theyd need to 
supply a mobile number in order to carry on using their accounts online. Investec said that 
this was because of new requirements for authenticating online payments introduced in 
Europe as part of the second Payment Services Directive. I want to explain a bit more about 
these requirements as understanding them well is important in this case.
Investec is right that new requirements came into effect in September 2019 and that this was 
as a result of the second Payment Services Directive. Thats an EU directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2. In the UK, the requirements of PSD2 were implemented via the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (which Ill refer to as the PSRs or the regulations in 
the rest of this decision). The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to 
apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set 
out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a payment 
service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
Its important to note that the regulations, as far as strong customer authentication is 
concerned, only apply to payment service providers. I say that because Investec has said 
to us  after Mr W complained to it  that the regulations do not apply to the account Mr W 
has as its not a payment account and its not a payment services provider. The guidance 
the FCA has issued  see next  by extension doesnt either, according to Investec.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer 
authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that the 
breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with the 
elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. Investecs response to these new requirements  and not, according to Mr W 
coming up with a solution that allows him to carry on using his accounts as internet 
accounts in the true sense of the word  and the extent to which Investec needed to 
implement changes is at the heart of Mr Ws complaint.
Investec and strong customer authentication
Investec explained to Mr W in 2019 that it would be making changes to how its customers 
authenticated because of new requirements for authenticating online payments that were 
being introduced in Europe. Investecs comments early on, in other words, implied that it had 
taken the view that it was going to have to make changes to its processes given the 
requirements of PSD2 and the PSRs, and that the changes it decided to make were to start 
authenticating its customers through a one-time passcode sent to a mobile or through its in-
app application. Later, however, after Mr W had complained to us, Investec said that it 
wasnt a payment service provider and that the account that Mr W had wasnt a payment 
account.
Having looked at the type of account Mr W had, I agree with Investec that it wasnt a 
payment account  Mr W couldnt, for example, set up direct debits or standing orders or 
make card payments or withdraw cash from the account. And the only way he could 
withdraw money from the account was by giving three months notice. It would perhaps have 
been helpful had Investec been clearer about this earlier, but its not something I can or 
should ignore.
Why did Mr W complain?
Mr W has told us that he has a number of internet accounts. Hes also told us that he 
opened these accounts because its important to him that hes able to manage his finances 
over the internet  that, according to Mr W, is what an internet account should by 
definition allow you to do. Hes given us lots of reasons why people generally, including 
himself, like to open internet accounts. For example, the convenience of being able to 
manage your finances online compared to the inconvenience of having to call your bank or 
visit a branch (particularly during Covid and in light too of the number of branches that have 
closed over the past few years and continue to close).
Mr W has told us that during his career hes worked in a number of different countries, often 
for months at a time, and that being able to manage his finances when hes away was 
important too. Hes told us that hes now looking forward to the idea of retirement, and that 
having saved up during his life, hes now looking forward to spending the money that hes 
put to one side. Hes told us that he has plans, for example, to be away for six to twelve 
months travelling around a particular region of the world (outside the EU) once restrictions 
have been eased. And that it will be important that hes able to manage his finances when 
hes abroad for that long period of time, and other trips he has planned. The new regulations 
Investec mentioned  and PSD2  are, of course, about strong customer authentication in 
Europe and not worldwide. They also require firms to authenticate using a second factor  
commonly possession. That does create difficulties for someone who wants to be able to 
access their accounts when they only have access to the internet, as the ability to log in from 
any device anywhere in the world means logging on itself rarely proves possession as the 
device used wont be tied to the customer. A trusted device is potentially different.Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone, and hes explained why even if he did 
it wouldnt help him manage his finances. He makes a lot of good points. Hes also told us 
that he owns a computer  this is the device he uses when hes at home  and that the 
computer he owns at the moment is a laptop. He does, however, routinely delete his cookies 
 for security reasons. He cant do that and set his laptop up as a trusted device.
Its clear from what Mr W has told us that his main complaint about Investecs response to 
strong customer authentication is that it simply doesnt allow him to manage his finances 
when hes travelling. He appears to have accepted for a number of years that hes only able 
to monitor his accounts with Investec because he doesnt have a mobile phone, and that if 
he wanted to make any withdrawals then hed have to use his landline at home to arrange 
this. But Investecs changes mean that he can no longer log into his account unless he has a 
mobile phone or uses Investecs in-app authentication. Mr Ws temporary solution to this was 
to ask Investec to send him paper statements on a monthly-basis so that he could monitor 
his accounts. So, I can see why hes said this would only work when hes at home and not 
whenever he has access to the internet. In the circumstances, I can see why Mr W says that 
his internet accounts were no longer operating like internet accounts because of the way 
Investec had responded to the introduction of strong customer authentication.
Mr W isnt complaining about Investecs decision to make changes following strong customer 
authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud. And hes not 
complaining about having to complete additional checks either  on the face of it at least. 
Hes told us he agrees that strong customer authentication is an important measure 
designed to combat fraud. Im satisfied that the only reason why Mr W complained was 
because he didnt feel Investec had offered a method of authenticating that would allow him 
to continue to operate his accounts as internet accounts. He wouldnt have complained had 
Investec, for example, offered him the option of authenticating using a token.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
Mr W has referred to what the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has said about strong 
customer authentication. The FCA has published several papers encouraging firms to think 
about the impact on different groups of customers, and emphasised that firms shouldnt rely 
only on mobile phones and should provide viable alternatives for those who dont possess a 
mobile phone, or those who may make payments in areas without reception. Mr W has 
quoted the FCAs guidance  and guidance from others too  to support his complaint and 
Ive spoken to him about it in detail.
Should Investec do more for Mr W?
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone and that the papers the FCA and 
others have published on strong customer authentication are relevant to this complaint. I 
dont entirely agree here  given that I accept that the type of account Mr W has isnt a 
payment account. 
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Investec 
to consider strong customer authentication when it was deciding whether or not it wanted to 
make changes to the ways it authenticated its customers  strong customer authentication is 
an important measure to help combat fraud. I dont think Mr W would disagree with me  
hes said that he supports strong customer authentication. The key question for me is 
whether or not it was fair and reasonable of Investec to offer two alternative ways of 
authenticating only  namely by sending an OTP to a mobile number or authenticating in-
app.I dont think Mr W can say that Investec dont offer him a way to check and manage his 
accounts when hes at home because he can use his landline to do everything he wants to 
be able to do. He can find out his balance, get statements sent by email and give notice that 
he wants to withdraw his money. I accept that this wouldnt be true internet banking as far 
as Mr W is concerned as it would mean he would have to rely on his landline and couldnt 
just rely on the internet. But I dont think I can say its unfair or unreasonable that Mr W has 
to use his landline if he wants to find out his balance or otherwise manage his savings 
account whilst hes at home. Investecs phone lines arent open 24/7 so I accept that Mr W 
isnt able to check his balance or manage his savings 24/7. But given that he cant withdraw 
money from the accounts without giving three months, I dont think I can say thats unfair. I 
cant see a situation where it would be fair to say that he shouldnt have to wait until 
Investecs phone lines are next open, particularly given how often he accesses or is likely to 
access his account. 
I accept that Mr W isnt able to use his landline to find out his balance or otherwise manage 
his savings accounts when hes not at home  for obvious reasons. So, I have to consider 
whether Investec has given Mr W a viable alternative to use when hes not at home and, in 
particular, when hes travelling abroad. More importantly, I have to consider whether 
Investec should have given Mr W a viable alternative in those circumstances in the first 
place. And, having done so, and having taken everything else into account, I have to decide 
whether whats happened here is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances or not. So 
thats what Im now going to do.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view payment service 
providers should be giving their customers several different ways to authenticate 
themselves, and not just rely on mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of 
consumers. I can see why the FCA said this  as its paper makes clear, not everyone owns 
a mobile phone, nor is everyone able to use a mobile phone. So, its important that these 
groups arent overlooked otherwise they could find that theyre unable to access online 
banking or make online payments or manage their accounts remotely. And these arent the 
only groups potentially affected. Or the only scenarios when authentication can be 
problematic, depending on the solution adopted. Mr W, given his background, is perhaps 
more knowledgeable than many when it comes to potential pitfalls here. Hes worried, in 
particular, about whats going to happen when large numbers of people (including himself) 
start to travel again. And hes worried too about some of the technologies that businesses 
are relying on  some of which he says are unreliable (because they were never designed to 
be used the way they are now being used) and some of which he says will soon be 
redundant. Hes told us that many businesses, including Investec, are relying on sunny day 
solutions, by which he means solutions that work when everything is well, but break down 
easily. Hes told us that this is because businesses, including Investec, havent focussed on 
whats key here  and that, according to Mr W, is making sure at least one solution works 
whenever a customer has internet access. I can see that there has been a lot of discussion 
about consumers who might live or work in areas of limited mobile reception, and some 
discussion about what happens when consumers travel abroad to the EU and beyond  
particularly the implication of roaming charges, for example. I agree with Mr W that this might 
well be an issue that will cause problems in the future, and it would have been helpful to 
have more material here which I could have considered on how far businesses need to go. 
But I also have to remember that I am looking at this individual complaint, and that I have to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Its important too that I remember 
that the account that Mr W has isnt a payment account.As Ive already mentioned, Mr W has savings accounts with Investec. They arent accounts 
which he can withdraw money from instantly, nor are they accounts he can send payments 
from using faster payments or CHAPS. Nor are they accounts that have a card attached to 
them. In fact, if he wants to withdraw money from them he has to give three months notice. 
They are also accounts that Mr W has accepted hes only able to view for several years, 
ever since Investec introduced OTPs in 2016  see above.
Mr W hasnt been able to give us any examples of when he had been unable to get 
information about his accounts or manage them when he wanted to  although he has been 
able to give me an example of when he had a problem at an airport because a card he had 
got blocked on account of security checks. Mr W has said to us that the way hed operated 
his accounts in the past wasnt relevant  he says the only thing thats relevant is how he 
wanted to operate his accounts. I agree with Mr W to a degree. Its clear that hes moving 
from a period in his life when he worked and has saved to a period in his life when hes likely 
to want to spend his money and is likely to travel abroad far more and for long periods of 
time. So, what hes done in the past is likely to be less relevant. I do, however, think I can 
and should take into account the type of account he had, and how it can be used. In this 
case, as Ive said, he has savings accounts that he is only able to withdraw money from by 
giving three months notice. And I also think I can and should take into account how hes 
used the account in the past and how he would have been likely to do so in the future.
Having considered everything, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair of Investec to say 
that if Mr W wants to manage his accounts online he has to do so using an OTP sent to a 
mobile phone or its in-app authentication. Thats because Mr W is able to do everything he 
wants to do when hes at home as he has a landline. I accept that using his landline  
effectively telephone banking  to manage his account isnt the same as being able to 
manage it online. And if this account had been a payment account that might be enough to 
say that Investec wasnt acting in a fair or reasonable way. But its not, and that means 
Investec isnt under the same obligations as it would be if it was a payment account. These 
are accounts that Mr W checked once every three months or so, and accounts he cant 
transfer money out of without giving three months notice. And for those reasons, even 
though I accept that Mr Ws use of these accounts is likely to change in the future, I also 
dont think its unreasonable that hell have to manage his affairs in a way that accounts for 
any long periods he decides to go abroad, particularly if he chooses to travel outside Europe 
and to areas that are remote or with limited coverage.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman