DRN-4288541
The complaint
Mr S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited didnt manage the funds 
in his pension account correctly and hes suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr S had a Worksave Pension Plan with L&G. The plan had been invested in the L&G Multi-
Asset/Over 15 Year Gilts 10 Year Lifestyle Profile (the Lifestyle Profile). Under the terms of 
the Lifestyle Profile L&G said it would gradually move the savings in his pension pot into less 
risky assets to reduce the likelihood of a sudden fall in value due to stock market fluctuations 
(a process known as de-risking). It said it would do this over the ten year period prior to the 
date Mr S had selected for retirement. 
In May 2022 L&G wrote to Mr S to inform him that it had decided to close the Lifestyle 
Profile. It said it would move all of Mr Ss savings from the Lifestyle Profile and invest them in 
the L&G PMC Multi-Asset Fund 3 (the new fund). It said this would happen between 4 
October 2022 and 18 October 2022. 
Mr S says he did not receive this letter. But he thinks the fact that L&G decided to close the 
Lifestyle Profile is evidence that it had identified a concern with how the fund was 
performing. In light of that he says L&G shouldnt have delayed taking action for over six 
months.
Mr S says his pension fund was worth around £152,000 in January 2022. When he received 
his benefit statement for January 2023 the fund had fallen in value by over £26,000. Mr S 
says he was shocked by this fall since he was approaching his selected retirement age. Hed 
expected L&G to be managing his fund in a safe haven, in line with what it had told him 
would happen in the last ten years before he retired. Mr S says that the fall in value of his 
savings in such a short period of time, and so close to his intended retirement date, is 
evidence that his fund has not been managed correctly or in the way that L&G said it would 
do. Mr S says hes had to change his retirement age as result of what happened. He 
complained to L&G.
L&G investigated his complaint. It said it had gradually moved his pension fund into lower 
risk funds in the period after October 2016. It had made the decision to close the Lifestyle 
Profile and had written to Mr S in May 2022 to inform him about this. The reason for its 
decision was because it said the Lifestyle Profile was designed for customers who were 
likely to use their pension pot to buy a guaranteed lifetime income (an annuity). However, it 
said that most consumers were now less likely to choose that option. For that reason it didnt 
feel the Lifestyle Profile was a suitable default investment option. It hadnt made this change 
right away because it wanted to give customers time to choose alternative investments 
should they wish.
L&G said it was Mr Ss own responsibility to move his investments and make changes if he 
thought that was necessary. L&G said it did not actively manage his pension fund. It said 
that the reason for the fall in value of his pension fund was not something that it could have 
foreseen and was due to unprecedented market conditions. It said that in 2021 and 2022 gilt 
and bond prices had been more volatile than usual and had fallen significantly.
Mr S didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He said that although the asset allocation had changed in October 2022, the 
spread of investment in the new fund was very similar to that of the Lifestyle Profile. The 
value of gilts had fallen dramatically during 2022 and that would have contributed to the 
decrease in the value of Mr Ss pension fund. However, he didnt think L&G could be held 
responsible for market fluctuations that were beyond its control. He didnt think L&G had 
guaranteed a no-loss scenario. Our investigator also thought L&G had acted fairly when it 
decided to close the Lifestyle Profile and switch Mr Ss funds into the new fund. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said, by way of summary:
Hed been told repeatedly that this was a managed fund. L&G charged a fee.
L&G should have moved his funds to a more secure investment as he got closer to 
his selected retirement date and it hadnt done that. He felt his funds had been left 
subject to high risk and volatile exposure.
L&G had identified the risk early in 2022 and had swapped asset allocation. However 
it hadnt taken action for over six months and hadnt properly mitigated the risks. 
When it took action a significant part of the loss had already been incurred.
Our investigator didnt change his view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Lifestyle Profile
I can understand why Mr S was concerned that the value of his pension fund had fallen 
significantly in 2022. He thinks that L&G should have been managing his fund so that it was 
invested in less risky assets as he approached his retirement age. He thinks if it had done 
that then the value wouldnt have fallen by as much.
Ive considered the information L&G provided to Mr S about his pension plan. He was told 
that ten years before his selected retirement age L&G would start to move his savings into 
less risky assets to reduce the likelihood of a sudden fall in value due to stock market 
fluctuations. It said that this process was known as de-risking and was designed primarily 
for those planning to purchase an annuity or for those consumers who required a degree of 
certainty if they planned to take their pot as cash in one go. He was also told that if he 
thought the Lifestyle Profile was not consistent with his plans for how and when he planned 
to take his pension savings he may want to consider other funds available. He was given 
details of how he could manage his account online and told that he could also see 
information there about other available fund options.
Mr S says he was paying L&G an annual fee and he expected it to be managing his funds. 
Ive looked at the Pension Benefit statement dated January 2023. It indicates that Mr S was 
being charged a fee for the cost of running your plan and a fee for managing your pension 
investments. 
Whilst it is the case that the fee Mr S was paying to L&G was described as a management 
fee, L&G did not provide Mr S with active investment management services. The Lifestyle 
Profile did not offer that type of service. Thats why his annual benefit statements said he 
should regularly review his investment strategy to ensure it was still suitable for his needs. It also referred him to the Manage Your Account webpages where further information about 
the funds available could be found. L&G didnt offer advice about whether the Lifestyle 
Profile was suitable for his needs. 
The Lifestyle Profile did include the provisions Ive referred to above concerning what 
happened ten years prior to the selected retirement date. So, I think its fair to say that the 
Lifestyle Profile was managed to the extent that L&G gradually moved Mr Ss savings into 
less risky assets in the ten year period prior to his selected retirement date. That happened 
automatically. 
Ive looked at what happened to his investments in the period starting ten years prior to his 
selected retirement date to see if L&G did make the changes to his investments that it said it 
would.
L&G has provided information which shows that with the Lifestyle Profile Mr Ss funds were 
initially invested in L&G (PMC) Multi-Asset Fund 3. Ten years prior to his retirement date 
L&G gradually changed the fund make up so that by the time he would reach his retirement 
date 75% of the fund would be invested in the Over 15 Years Gilt Index Fund 3 and the 
remainder was invested in the L&G PMC Cash Fund 3.
Information about how his funds were invested was available to Mr S on his annual benefit 
statements. So, for example the annual benefit statement dated 13 January 2022 indicated 
that, at that time, (which was just under five years before his selected retirement date) his 
fund was made up as follows:
47.76% Multi Asset 3
38.45% Over 15 Year Gilts Index 3
13.79% Cash 3
So, Im satisfied, on balance, that L&G was managing the Lifestyle Profile in the way it had 
indicated it would do. 
Despite that, it is the case that the overall value of Mr Ss pension fund fell in 2022. L&G set 
out in its final response letter the various reasons why that had happened. It explained that 
thered been uncertainty in global equity markets which meant that gilt and bond funds in 
2021 and 2022 had been more volatile than usual and had fallen significantly. It also 
mentioned the impact of rising interest rates, inflation, war in Ukraine and government policy 
changes which it said had significant and widespread impacts. 
Although the fall in the value of his pension fund has been disappointing for Mr S, I think the 
explanation L&G has provided for why that happened is reasonable. When reaching that 
view Ive also considered the information in the Lifestyle Profile fact sheet. It set out the 
advantages and disadvantages of this arrangement and explained that although the Lifestyle 
Profile was designed to reduce investment volatility as the consumer approached retirement 
age - that didnt mean the value of the pension fund was guaranteed. As Mr S 
acknowledges, he was aware the fund value could go down as well as up. That was the 
case despite the fact that L&G had been de-risking his investments in the way it said it would 
do. 
So, having considered everything about how the Lifestyle Profile was being managed, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to say that L&G should be held responsible for market 
fluctuations that were outside its control. 
L&Gs decision to close the Lifestyle Profile and switch Mr Ss investments into the new fundL&G decided in May 2022 to close the Lifestyle Profile. Mr S has made several points about 
this decision and its implementation which Ill comment on below:
He says he didnt receive the letter informing him about L&Gs decision to close the 
Lifestyle Profile
L&G says it issued a letter addressed to Mr S at the address it held for him on its records in 
May 2022. It says this was sent as part of a project. L&G has provided a sample of the letter. 
It appears from what Mr S has told us that L&G may also (or alternatively) have issued an 
email addressed to him about this change  which he says went into his SPAM account. 
Although Mr S says he didnt receive this letter, L&G says it sent the letter to the address 
held on its records. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that L&G did anything wrong 
when it did that. Ive also looked at the copy of the email Mr S says he was sent dated 30 
May 2022. It appears to have been sent to his correct email address. I note he says it went 
to his SPAM account. However, again I dont think L&G can be held responsible for that  
given it used the correct email address. Im satisfied, on balance, L&G made a reasonable 
attempt to try to contact Mr S to inform him about the proposed changes.
Mr S has also referred to the fact that neither the letter nor email appear on his online 
archive of correspondence. L&G says the letter was sent out as part of a wider project and 
thats why copies werent available within customers online records. Id just comment that 
its not unusual where correspondence has been sent as part of a wider project for it not to 
be recorded on an individuals online archive. So, although Im uncertain why Mr S didnt 
receive the letter or why the email went to his SPAM account, as Ive stated above, I dont 
think that was because of an error made by L&G. 
L&G decided to close the Lifestyle Profile because it was concerned about how the 
fund was performing
Mr S says the reason why L&G decided to close the Lifestyle Profile was because of the way 
that it was performing. However, thats not the reason which L&G provided in the letter it 
sent. 
L&G said the reason why it had decided to close the Lifestyle Profile was because it had 
been designed for customers who did not want to make an investment decision and were 
likely to use their pension pot to buy a guaranteed lifetime income and take some tax free 
cash. The fund value was expected to rise and fall in line with the price of an annuity. 
L&G said it was now the case, as a result of changes in legislation which offered more 
freedom in how pension savings were taken, that its customers were much less likely to buy 
an annuity when they retired. Because of that it was closing the Lifestyle Profile and offering 
the new fund which aimed to provide growth up to and into retirement. Savings would no 
longer be automatically moved into a fund designed to protect against the price of annuities 
in the ten year period prior to retirement.
Having considered the explanation L&G provided for its decision, I think it was reasonable. I 
havent seen anything to support what Mr S has said about why he thinks the Lifestyle 
Profile was being closed. And, on balance, Im persuaded that L&G made the decision to 
close the Lifestyle Profile for the reasons it set out in its letter.
The letter also explained that if Mr S wasnt happy with the proposed change he could 
contact it. 
L&G unreasonably delayed closing the Lifestyle Profile for over 6 monthsThe decision to close the Lifestyle Profile was communicated to customers in May 2022. 
Mr S thinks L&G then unreasonably delayed closing the Lifestyle Profile until October 2022. 
He says it should have closed the Lifestyle Profile and moved his investments into the new 
fund much earlier.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said here. But having done so, Im not persuaded that L&G 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it waited until October to move his investments. 
The letter, sent in May, stated that the switch to the new fund would happen between 4 
October and 18 October 2022. L&G was obliged to give customers notice before it made a 
change of this nature. 
The Members Booklet for the Worksave Pension Plan provides details about various notice 
periods that applied to changes that could be made. For example, Ive noted that L&G was 
able to change the range of lifestyle profiles available. It said it would give 60 days notice 
before making such a change. It also was able to close a fund in certain circumstances and 
if that happened it said it would give its customers 3 months notice. In each case customers 
would have the right to opt out of the changes. 
So, the terms and conditions permitted L&G to make changes to the Lifestyle Profile and 
required it to give certain periods of notice. Nevertheless, Mr S says L&G didnt have to wait 
for almost six months before it made the change. 
L&G says it provided adequate notice to allow Mr S, should he have wanted, to switch his 
investments to an alternative fund other than the new fund. It said it also recommended that 
customers seek independent financial advice regarding investments if theyre unsure. In 
these circumstances it thought it was fair and reasonable to wait until October (just over four 
months after it issued the letter) to allow customers to take whatever action they thought 
might be necessary to respond to the proposed change. L&G also said it decided to wait 
until October, because of market volatility, and it needed to ensure that the funds were in a 
more stable position before completing the fund closure.
Having considered the details set out in the letter and the reasoning L&G has provided for 
making the switch in October, Im satisfied, on balance, that the notice period provided by 
L&G was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that applied here.
Whilst I know this will disappoint Mr S, Im not persuaded that L&G did anything wrong or 
that it has otherwise acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I dont require it to have to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman