DRN-1168943
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
("PPI") with a store card.
What happened
Briefly:
In 1996 Mrs A took out PPI on her existing held store card - she'd had the card for more than 
12 months. The PPI was taken out during a phone call.
The policy provided protection for Mrs A card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. It provided a benefit of 15% of the monthly 
outstanding balance payable until Mrs A returned to work or the balance was paid off - 
whichever happened first. It cost no more than £1.00 for every £100 Mrs A owed on the 
card.
The policy also provided purchase protection. But Mrs A's not complained about this - only 
the PPI elements - so that's all I've considered here.
At the time of the sale Mrs A was employed, and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half-pay. She didn't indicate that she had any other 
means at her disposal, and she said she was in good health at the time of the sale.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mrs A agreed to take it out and there was nothing to indicate that it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her. 
Because Mrs A, through her representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs A's complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs A understand she had a choice about PPI ?
did she agree to take it out?I think AXA made it clear that Mrs A didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
As I referred to above Mrs A bought PPI during a phone call. AXA no longer has a call 
recoding of the phone sale and it hasn't got a call script either. And this isn't surprising to me 
given the passage of time.
But Mrs A bought PPI at a different time to taking out the store card  the two things 
didn't happen at the same time. I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums appeared on Mrs A's 
statements for several years, so if she hadn't agreed to it I think this would've likely prompted 
her to query it with AXA at the time. 
Because of this, and given the passage of time, I dont think I can fairly say that AXA more 
likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being optional or that Mrs A didn't agree to 
take it out. 
the information   
AXA didn't recommend PPI to Mrs A - I've not seen any evidence to persuade me that it did. 
So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs A. But it did have to 
give her enough clear and timely information about it so that she could make an informed 
decision.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A 
about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think she likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And based on her 
circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for her - for example 
she wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover, and in my view she 
didn't have sufficient other means at her disposal to help make her payments for an 
extended period. So it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mrs A off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs A PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs A has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs A what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A and her representative have said - including the points 
about the cost not being made clear, the fact that no questions were asked about Mrs A's 
health and that the PPI would only cover the minimum card payment. But these points dont 
change my decision.
I've already said that things didn't likely happen as they should have done - albeit AXA didn't 
have to ask any questions about Mrs A's circumstances including her health because this 
wasn't an advised sale. It's also the case that, as I said at the start, the PPI would've paid 
out far in excess of Mrs A's minimum card payment and had the potential to clear any 
balance in full. 
And so in light of what the PPI offered, together with Mrs A's particular circumstances at the 
time, I don't think better information would've likely put her off taking out PPI. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman