DRN-3268665
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) incorrectly declined
his fraud claim. To put things right, he wants AMEX to refund the transactions he disputes,
remove any credit markers as a result of the debt and pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr J disputes three payments totalling £1,444.08 that were made on his card while he was
on holiday. He says he lost his wallet before the transactions took place and called AMEX
when he realised something was wrong. He says there was a failed attempt on another card
in his wallet, which indicates a fraudster attempted to use the same PIN for his other card.
His wallet was later returned to him after being found by a local resident.
AMEX initially credited his account with the value of the payments while it carried out its
investigation. Two months later, on 27 December 2019, it issued its final response letter and
rejected Mr Js claim saying the transactions had been made using chip and PIN, and that
Mr J hadnt reported the matter to the local police at the time. AMEX re-applied the disputed
transactions to Mr Js account.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. He said hed asked AMEX if he needed to do
anything when he reported his card lost, and was told that he didnt. He said he spoke to
AMEX again while he was on holiday and they didnt tell him he needed to report the matter
to the Police.
Mr J said he couldnt afford to pay the transactions hed disputed, and had asked AMEX to
separate them from his usual statement until the matter was resolved, so he could maintain
his usual payments. He said AMEX declined, which caused him to miss payments and suffer
damage to his credit file.
After completing her investigation, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In
reaching her outcome, she said that:
The transactions didnt follow a traditional fraud pattern;
Mr J had confirmed the third payment as authorised via AMEXs automated voice
system;
The third payment was attempted again minutes after the automated call; and
The failed PIN attempt on Mr Js other card happened two days after the date of the
AMEX transactions, and after Mr Js wallet had been returned to him.
Mr J disagreed. He disputed the dates and time stamps on AMEXs system and has sent in
photographs and videos that show him at a train station and sightseeing at the times AMEX
says he was using his card at a bar.
He said he couldnt remember receiving an automated call, but did accidentally respond to
an automated email, although he called AMEX immediately to say hed responded
incorrectly.
Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. I issued a provisional decision on 
22 December 2021. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold Mr Js complaint, I need to be persuaded that AMEX acted reasonably in
declining Mr Js claim. So Ive looked at what it has told our service, as well as what Mr J has
said in response.
In reaching its decision to decline Mr Js claim, AMEX relied on the following:
A note of a voice recognition call confirming the third attempted transaction as not
being fraudulent;
The first disputed transaction took place three hours after Mr J says he last used his
card, continued over a two-hour period and ended voluntarily i.e. before the card was
blocked or the credit limit was reached;
There was a significant period of time when Mr J didnt know his wallet was missing;
It was unclear why Mr J was confused by the notification AMEX sent him;
Mr J didnt send back the evidence it asked him to provide;
That his testimony has changed as to the circumstances;
That the cards chip and PIN were used; and
Mr J didnt report the fraud to the local Police.
I understand why AMEX refer to the above considerations, but not all of them carry much
weight in light of the particular circumstances of this case. The length of time Mr J was
unaware of his wallet is easily explained as Mr J has said his friends paid for drinks after his
last genuine payment. In light of the nature of the holiday, which was a trip to watch a large
international sporting event, that explanation is entirely believable.
Mr J has explained he clicked on the wrong part of the email he received, then called AMEX
immediately because he realised what he had done. Again, an entirely plausible explanation.
The fact that Mr J didnt report the matter to the local Police is also understandable: he was
in a foreign country with very different customs and language to his own, and he was on
holiday  a time to relax, not to spend time filing Police reports about a crime that was
unlikely to be solved. He also reported the fraud to AMEX who didnt advise him to make a
crime report.
That the cards chip and PIN were used doesnt mean they were used by Mr J, or with his
authorisation. Its entirely possible that Mr J was shoulder-surfed, and his PIN taken. His PIN
was entered within a short period of time before the disputed transactions started, which
explains how his PIN could have been compromised.
AMEXs assertion that Mr J didnt return the documents it asked him to (an assertion Mr J
disputes) doesnt demonstrate that he authorised the transactions in question. And the
discrepancies AMEX has referred to in Mr Js testimony are relatively minor in my view and
dont significantly influence my decision. Further, Mr J disputes what AMEX says he told it
and AMEX doesnt have recordings of the calls made. I also find Mr J to be a persuasive and
compelling witness, and I havent found any significant inconsistencies in what hes told our
Service.
With that being said, AMEX does raise a few key points. It has an audit trail suggesting the
third disputed transaction was authorised by telephone, through its voice recognition system.
Although the gap between the last genuine transaction and the first disputed transaction isntextremely long, it is longer than I would usually expect to see. And AMEX is right to say that
its unusual for a fraudster to make three payments over a two-hour period and to stop
before the card is cancelled or maxed out.
Regrettably though, AMEXs audit trail isnt supported by call recordings. So, its not possible
for me to say what happened when the voice recognition call was placed. And Mr J says he
didnt receive a call, only an email. For those reasons, I cant reasonably base my decision
solely on this event.
The remaining point is AMEXs statement that the disputed transactions dont fit what it
would expect to see as a typical pattern of fraud. A point our investigator agreed with.
I dont agree that that alone supports AMEXs argument: in fact its own fraud detection
system registered the third transaction as suspicious, which is what led to the call AMEX
says it made. And while that doesnt mean AMEXs system saw the entire scenario as
suspicious, it does tell me AMEXs system thought the spending pattern was unusual.
I also take the view that the spending pattern is unusual in the circumstances of this case 
there were three large payments made that were out of character when factoring in Mr Js
usual spending behaviour.
However, there is some merit in what AMEX says. If the disputed transactions in question
were fraudulent, it would mean that there was a delay of three hours and sixteen minutes
between the fraudster seeing Mr J enter his PIN and the fraudsters first use of the card.
Again, that alone isnt a smoking gun that proves Mr J must have authorised the transactions
himself: its just a little unusual.
I dont give a great deal of weight to the rest of AMEXs argument about a typical fraud
pattern. The fact that three transactions were made over a two-hour period and that the
fraudster didnt continue to use the card until it was maxed out or blocked isnt necessarily
unusual in the particular circumstances of this case.
If the disputed transactions were carried out by a fraudster, the pattern of spending might not
fit the profile of a typical experienced fraudster. But it does fit the profile of an opportunist
fraudster. By that I mean that the fraudster could have been looking to spend a significant
amount of money, perhaps simply to fund an extravagant night out, and not necessarily to
gain the maximum possible spend, in the way an experienced fraudster might.
The fact that the third attempted transaction was blocked at the first attempt could well have
given such a fraudster cause for concern, which would explain why transactions didnt
continue.
Our investigator attached some weight to her finding that the failed attempt on one of Mr Js
other cards didnt happen at the time he said it did, or at the same time as the disputed
transactions on Mr Js AMEX card. But having investigated that point further, I cant
reasonably attach weight to it.
Mr Js other account shows a failed PIN attempt on 28 October 2019 at 01:38. But its not
clear what time zone that is, or whether that is the processing time or the transaction time.
Mr J approached his bank to ask for clarity, but all it could confirm was that Mr Js banking
app should be using the global zone the phone was set to. It didnt confirm whether the time
was the transaction or processing time, and it didnt explain how to determine the time Mr Js
phone was set to. For those reasons, I dont find that to be reliable evidence one way or the
other as to what happened.With that being said, Ive looked at the timings of the transactions. Mr Js statements dont
confirm the time of each transaction, but list the transaction date as 27 October 2019 (i.e. not
the day the transactions took place).
The system notes AMEX has provided our Service say the disputed transactions took place
on 26 October 2019 and list the times as being 12:33, 13:16, 14:12 and 14:34. AMEX has
told our service those times are taken from its head office, and are Mountain Standard Time
(MST). Which would equate to 04:33, 05:16, 06:12 and 06:34 on 27 October in the area the
card was used.
Mr J though disputes the times and has provided various photographs and videos showing
his movements on the day in question. I can see he was in the location of the venue at which
his last genuine transaction took place at 09:17 local time. According to AMEXs system
notes, that transaction happened at 09:12 (albeit AMEX says thats MST, not local time).
I can see Mr J was then at a train station at around 12:23, before spending the rest of the
afternoon and early evening in a different location, 22 miles away from where the disputed
transactions were taking place.
Having carefully thought about what both parties have said Im satisfied that, on balance, the
evidence supports Mr Js version of events. The photographs and videos, along with Mr Js
description of the purpose of his holiday, to attend a sporting event, tie in with the times of
the transactions shown on AMEXs systems.
They show his location and movements, which are contrary to the location and timings of the
disputed transactions. AMEXs explanation that its timestamps were in MST, not local time
doesnt tie in with the rest of the evidence. And, if that were the case, it would mean Mr J
went from the location he has demonstrated he was in, back to the original location and 
recommenced spending at 04:33, some 10 hours after his last card use. I accept thats a
possibility, but I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that was the case.
AMEX does say it carried out a voice recognition check on one of the disputed transactions,
and that Mr J confirmed it to be genuine. However, Im not persuaded by the evidence
AMEX has submitted in that regard. It doesnt have a recording of the call it says it made to
Mr J, and the notes it has provided arent clear. They list a time of 22:32 which doesnt tie in
with the transactions in question. And in any event as Ive said above, without the recording
of the call, Im more persuaded by the other evidence Ive referred to above.
It follows from what I say above, that Im persuaded Mr J didnt authorise the transactions he
disputes. That being the case, Mr J isnt responsible for the payments and should be
refunded. Mr J was also put to a degree of distress and inconvenience in raising and
challenging the dispute with AMEX, and so Im minded to tell AMEX to pay Mr J £350 to
compensate him for that.
Credit markers
Mr J has also said he wants AMEX to remove any credit markers it put on his file as a result
of holding him liable for the disputed transactions. Given what Ive said about the
transactions, it would normally follow that I would ask AMEX to remove negative markers.
However on this occasion, I wont ask it to do so. Ill explain why.
The balance on Mr Js statement at the time he failed to make payment was £7,123.47.
Because of the nature of the card in question, the full balance was due and not a smaller,
minimum monthly repayment. I accept that the balance included the £1,444.08 I have said
Mr J didnt authorise, but even if I were to discount that amount, Ive seen no evidence to
demonstrate Mr J would have paid the remaining balance in time.AMEX is obliged to provide accurate information about its customers credit activity, and so I
cant say it did anything wrong here, or that the cause of any negative markers was its
declination of Mr Js fraud claim.
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im minded to tell AMEX to pay Mr J £1,444.08,
representing the transactions he didnt authorise, plus interest at 8% from 1 December 2019,
until settlement. And a further £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr J
experienced as a result of bringing his complaint.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or submissions by 19 January 2022.
Mr J agreed with the outcome relating to the disputed transactions, but he didnt agree that 
the credit markers should remain. He said he has always been, and still is, prepared to pay 
what he owes. But he felt AMEX should have separated the disputed sums from his balance 
due.
AMEX didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr J has on this issue and the implications that the 
default has had on his credit file. So, I havent taken this decision lightly. But Im not 
persuaded that AMEX should remove any markers from his credit file. Ill explain why.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr J said he felt that, had he paid the full balance, it 
would have looked like he was admitting liability for the transactions he disputed. He also 
said he has always intended to pay what he owes. I understand Mr Js rationale, and I 
accept why someone in his position would decline to pay a debt they dispute. And it makes 
sense that he might have felt like he was admitting liability (even if that wasnt the case) by 
paying under sufferance.
However, that doesnt explain why Mr J didnt pay the balance he accepted he did owe. Had 
he done so, but not paid the £1,444.08 in dispute, I think it would have been apparent to 
AMEX, and any reasonable party involved in the dispute (including our Service), that he still 
objected to the remaining balance. And it would have been an unequivocal demonstration 
that, as he says, he intended to pay what he owes.
So, while I understand what Mr J says, I cant say AMEX has acted unreasonably in 
reporting Mr Js credit information. Mr J didnt pay a large balance owed to AMEX (even if we 
exclude the disputed transactions) and AMEX has recorded that default factually, as it is 
obliged to do. And given the marker doesnt relate solely to the disputed transactions Ive 
said AMEX should refund, I cant say the marker was put on Mr Js file as a result of an error 
by AMEX.
For the reasons set out above, and given AMEX didnt respond to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited must pay Mr J:£1,444.08;
Interest on the above sum at 8% from 1 December 2019 until settlement; and
£350.
If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman