DRN-3612137
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr B noticed a payment leaving his credit card account in early 2020 and notified Barclays 
about it. Mr B explained to Barclays that a similar payment had been made from the account 
on a monthly basis for many years and asked Barclays for a refund of all the charges 
amounting to thousands of pounds.
Barclays were delayed dealing with the claim and after several months they stopped the 
monthly credit card payment to the merchant and refunded charges dating back to when Mr 
B first told them about the problem. Mr B complained to Barclays about the issue who 
investigated his complaint.
Barclays advised that the payment had been arranged using a Continuous Payment 
Authority (CPA) which enabled the merchant to take payments based on the arrangement 
theyd first agreed with the customer (here Mr B). Barclays didnt refund any further 
payments, but they did refund other small charges related to the delay in stopping the CPA. 
Barclays recognised theyd provided poor customer service by this delay and credited £75  
to Mr Bs account.
Mr B remained unhappy with the outcome and brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our 
investigators. Both parties were asked for details about the complaint and Mr B explained 
that hed originally made one payment to the merchant but hadnt authorised any others. Mr 
B also explained that the credit card was managed by an employee at the time.
Barclays provided details about the credit card account, although the original details about 
the payment were no longer available due to the age of the transactions. Barclays detailed 
what had happened when Mr B first notified them about the payment and what theyd done 
to rectify the delay in dealing with it. Barclays thought that Mr B should have noticed the 
payments earlier than he did and notified them (Barclays) to stop them.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted reasonably when they cancelled the 
transaction and backdated the payments due to their own delay. He also agreed that the 
additional payment was appropriate to recognise the poor customer service. But, he didnt 
think it was appropriate to ask Barclays to refund any earlier payments taken from the credit 
card.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of the 
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision. Mr B added that he hadnt set 
up any direct debits for the payment and thought the charges on the credit card were linked 
to currency payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These payments from the card go back many years and its unlikely that details about the 
original payment would still be available. But here, Mr B acknowledged making a payment to 
the merchant although he denies giving permission to take any further payments. 
Barclays confirmed these payments used the CPA process to take the payments, rather than 
a direct debit which Mr B referred to. CPAs are a way for a merchant to take a payment on a 
regular basis for whatever the service theyre providing relates to. 
I appreciate Mr B said the credit card was managed by someone else but having looked at 
the charges against it at the time the payment first started, many of those payments appear 
not to be related to business. The credit card is also in Mr Bs name rather than a business 
account, so I think it reasonable that he would be aware of what was being spent against the 
card. The statement indicates that on some months, the only payment is against the 
merchant that Mr B has disputed. So, I would have thought the payment to them would have 
been noticed much earlier.
Some months there was also an additional manual payment made against the outstanding 
balance, indicating that whoever was managing the payment was aware of the balance on 
the card and presumably what it was being spent on. Mr B has said he thought the foreign 
amounts were related to currency charges, but the description of the charges on the 
statement refer to the merchant who he acknowledged making a payment to in order to set 
up the service from them. I dont think the details available on the account were unclear or in 
any way masked, so I think it was reasonable for Mr B to have brought these payments to 
Barclays notice earlier than they did.
CPAs by their nature will tend to run until theyre cancelled, so its not unusual to see 
payments taken over many years. Whats relevant here is that once the merchant had the 
authority to take payments using the CPA  they were effectively authorised by Mr B. I 
understand that the total paid to the merchant over the years amounted to many thousands 
of pounds and was no doubt a shock to Mr B when he totalled it up. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to process the payments when they were presented with the CPA 
authority. I also dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund the earlier payments.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr B liable for these payments. I also 
think their response when they delayed the cancellation process when first notified by Mr B 
was fair, including the additional payment for the poor customer service.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
David PerryOmbudsman