The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Claims (London) Ltd (Claims) handled his mis-sold 
investments claim against investment provider S (IPS). 
What happened
Mr L instructed Claims to progress complaints about IPS and investments hed made that he 
thought had been mis-sold. Claims put the complaints to IPS, who said the complaints about 
a Guaranteed Investment Bond (GIB) had already been looked into. But, Claims identified 
further investments, an ISA and an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC), they 
thought they could progress further.
Claims put these to IPS in January 2018, who responded in February saying the complaints 
fell outside their time limits (six years from when the product was taken out or three years 
from when Mr L shouldve realised he had grounds to complain). They also said the 
complaints had already been looked into by the Financial Ombudsman Service. But, they still 
gave Mr L his rights to have this response looked at by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
again.
Claims contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service in March to ask whether theyd already 
looked into the complaint. They chased this again in June. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service responded in June, explaining theyd responded in April saying they couldnt find Mr 
Ls previous claim. So, Claims returned to IPS with more detail asking them to look at the 
complaint again.
IPS responded again saying the complaints had been looked at previously. They attached a 
Letter of Authority  from a previous third party who had also raised the complaints on Mr Ls 
behalf, as well as the Financial Ombudsman Service decision from 2011. This was received 
by Claims on 23 July. They reviewed this documentation and wrote to Mr L on 2 August to 
explain they wouldnt be able to progress the complaints.
Mr L has complained that delays caused by Claims meant he missed the six month deadline 
to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, he says hes lost out on the 
money he wouldve received from a successful complaint. Hes also complained about 
Claims initially saying he had a good case, only to say they couldnt take it any further 
forward. He said this caused him a lot of upset at a time when he was in and out of hospital.
Claims didnt uphold his complaint. They thought theyd progressed the complaint fairly and 
told Mr L he had a good case when they were unaware of information that was important to 
the complaint. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr L was unhappy 
with this response so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He thought Claims caused a two 
month delay by not actioning the response received from the Financial Ombudsman Service 
DRN-1162138in April. Because of this, he thought Mr L had lost the opportunity to decide whether he 
wanted to refer the complaint to FOS himself. 
He recommended that Claims pay Mr L £300.00 to recognise this loss of opportunity, as he 
didnt agree thered been a direct financial loss as there was no guarantee the complaint 
would be upheld.
Mr L was willing to accept this view even though he didnt think this amount was enough to 
recognise the impact hed suffered. But Claims rejected this view. They said the Financial 
Ombudsman Service sent their response in April to the wrong e-mail address and this 
contributed to the delay. They also said they delayed in chasing a response from the 
Financial Ombudsman Service due to guidance from the regulator at the time. As Claims 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I think itd be useful to explain what Ive been able to consider. This complaint focuses 
on the service Claims providing to Mr L, and not the decision by IPS to deem the complaints 
about the investments to be outside of the relevant time limits. So, Ive looked at whether 
Claims took reasonable steps to progress the complaints as Id expect, in line with their 
terms and conditions.
Ive seen Claims initially contacted IPS in October to request more information. From this, 
they were able to identify two investments (an ISA and an OEIC) they thought could be 
progressed. At this time, I dont think they were aware that another third party had previously 
been instructed to pursue these claims. So, I dont think they were able to consider all the 
relevant information to decide if the complaint had a good chance of being successful. 
Because of this, I dont think Claims acted unfairly by telling Mr L he had a complaint that 
could be made.
Ive seen Claims made the complaint about these two investments to IPS in January 2018. 
So, I think up until this point theyve acted in line with the terms of the client agreement Mr L 
signed when he instructed Claims; which says we will request information regarding the 
products and related documents and where appropriate formulate and submit a complaint to 
the company. 
Ive seen that IPS responded saying the complaints fell outside of the time limits. They also 
said Mr L raised the same complaints in 2016 which had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. But, they offered Mr L the opportunity to escalate their response to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service again.
I think this was the first time Claims were made aware that the complaints about these 
investments may have been raised before. Claims then contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in March to see whether the information IPS provided was correct. I think this was a 
reasonable response at the time to ensure they had all the information they needed to make 
a decision on how to progress. So again, I think theyve acted reasonably up to this point.
Ive seen Claims system notes which show that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
responded to this query in April. But, this response wasnt actioned. So, Claims chased the 
Financial Ombudsman Service again in June for a response. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service responded on 20 June, explaining theyd already told Claims in April they couldnt find any record of Mr Ls complaint. Ive seen Claims noted their system on this day saying 
they had received the e-mail in April but never attached or forwarded it so they lost a 
couple of months.
Im aware Claims feel the Financial Ombudsman Service sent their response to the wrong e-
mail address in April. And I can see the e-mail wasnt sent directly to the handler at Claims. 
But, as Claims recognise they received the e-mail, Id have expected them to have the 
necessary internal processes in place to make sure the response was forwarded to the 
correct member of staff. I think the note they made on their system shows this didnt happen.
So, I think Claims failure to action the first Financial Ombudsman Service response led to a 
delay of two months. This took two months out of the six month time frame Mr L had to 
escalate IPSs response in February.
Claims contacted IPS again in June, after hearing from the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
explaining they felt IPS has blurred the investments so should reconsider their response. IPS 
didnt think they had, and made Claims aware of the third party claim made on Mr Ls behalf 
in 2016. I think this is the first time Claims were made aware that another company had 
attempted to make a complaint about the two investments beforehand. 
Ive seen Claims asked IPS to send them copies of the response in 2016 and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service letter they received in 2011 so they could decide how to progress. 
Again, I think this is reasonable from Claims to gather all the information to make sure the 
complaint they raise has a chance at being successful. The full documentation wasnt 
received by Claims until 23 July 2018 due to IPS sending half a letter initially. So, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to hold them accountable for this delay.
After reviewing the documents, Claims wrote to Mr L explaining theyd be unable to progress 
the complaints further. The terms of the client agreement say we will also arrange to submit 
the case to the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) or the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) as appropriate and I think this gives Claims the scope to 
make an informed decision on whether they think the complaint is likely to be successful 
before submitting it. So, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by not progressing the complaint 
further.
But, this letter was sent to Mr L on 2 August 2018; the same day the six month time frame 
Mr L had to escalate his complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service expired. So, Mr L 
wasnt given a reasonable opportunity to consider this information and decide whether he 
wanted to escalate the claim himself.
Had Claims actioned the Financial Ombudsman Services first response they received in 
April, I think this wouldve prevented the two month delay. I think if this had been prevented, 
Mr L wouldve been left with a reasonable amount of time to progress the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service himself. After considering the number of attempts Mr L made 
over the previous years to make a complaint about the investments, I think its likely he 
wouldve done so. So, I think Mr L has suffered through the delay caused by Claims and this 
should be compensated for.
But, Im unable to predict whether or not this complaint wouldve been upheld by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. So I dont think it would be fair to consider any financial loss 
that Mr L might have suffered. Instead, I think a compensatory amount should be made to 
recognise the opportunity Mr L has lost. Ive also considered Mr Ls comments about his 
situation at the time and the fact he was in and out of hospital. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigator that a payment of £300.00 recognises the trouble and upset Mr L has 
suffered by not being able to refer the complaint to FOS himself. My final decision
For the reasons outlines above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Claims (London) Ltd and 
direct them to pay Mr L £300.00 to recognise the opportunity hes lost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2019.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman