DRN-3603797
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has turned down a claim he made on an income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S is insured through his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
specified a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In July 2020, Mr S became incapacitated from his role as a senior executive, as a result of 
chronic vestibular migraine. He remained signed-off from work until 11 January 2021, at 
which point, he returned to work on a phased-basis. Mr S employer continued to pay him full 
pay during the phased return to work plan.
Mr S wished to make a claim for proportionate benefit to represent the period he wasnt 
working full-time hours. But Zurich turned down the claim. Thats because the deferred 
period didnt end until 18 January 2021, by which date, Mr S had already returned to work. 
So it concluded that he didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity and therefore, wasnt 
entitled to a partial benefit payment.
Following Mr S return to work and recommencement of full-time hours, he unfortunately 
began to experience a recurrence of migraine. And hed been prescribed a new preventative 
medication by his treating specialist. So he wished to reduce his hours to a shorter working 
week and in April 2021, his employer asked Zurich if it would pay benefit for Mr S for the 
days he wasnt working. 
Additionally, Mr S had paid privately for a number of medical treatments, alternative 
treatments and medication to try and resolve his condition. He considered that by seeking 
treatment privately, hed likely been able to return to work earlier than he would otherwise 
have done. He felt that if he hadnt sought private treatment, he wouldve been off work for 
longer than the deferred period. Therefore, he considered that Zurich ought to provide 
financial assistance for these costs.
Zurich declined to pay Mr S partial policy benefit for his reduced hours between April and 
June 2021. It said the policy didnt provide cover for a future possible deterioration in an 
members health and the evidence suggested that Mr S was able to work full-time hours. 
And it also said that the policy didnt cover the cost of a policyholders medications.
Mr S was unhappy with Zurichs decisions and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Mr S had 
met the policy definition of incapacity following his return to work in January 2021. And he 
didnt think Mr S had suffered any loss of income during this period, as his employer had 
paid him full pay. So he thought itd been fair for Zurich not to pay Mr S claim for the period 
of his phased return to work. The investigator also considered it had been reasonable for 
Zurich to conclude that a period of reduced hours to prevent further incapacity wasnt 
covered. And he didnt think that the policy covered the costs of private medical treatment, 
medication and therapies.
Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator:
He felt he was eligible to make a claim because hed been under the care of a 
medical practitioner and was taking steps to manage his condition/recovery;
He considered that he was eligible for partial benefit,. Thats because the policy 
stated that if a member returned to work during the deferred period; Zurich would 
consider a payment for partial income benefit;
It was clear that when he returned to work on 11 January 2022, hed been unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation and that hed been 
returning to work as part of his rehabilitation plan and with limited duties. He didnt 
think the fact that his employer had continued to pay his full pay was relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint;
The second period of reduced hours had been part of the same illness and 
rehabilitation process. It wasnt a period of reduced hours to prevent illness. It was 
because his private treatment had been unlikely to be effective for around eight 
weeks and he was therefore unable to perform his full duties;
He believed that his claims were turned down because of the opinion of Zurichs 
Chief Medical Officer (CMO), which was both subjective and wrong.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think Zurich has handled his claims 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that whilst Ive summarised the detailed background to his 
complaint and his submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our 
rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this income protection policy and the circumstances of Mr S claim, to decide 
whether Zurich treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of this policy, as it forms the basis of the 
contract between Mr S employer and Zurich. Page six of the policy sets out the purpose of 
the income protection policy. It states:
The policy provides insurance that pays you a regular Income Benefit if a Member
has an Incapacity for longer than the Deferred Period, and
suffers a loss of earned income
I think Zurichs policy terms make it clear that benefit will only be payable if a member is 
incapacitated for longer than the deferred period and suffers a loss of income.
Zurich has set out a definition of what it by means by incapacity on page five of the policy. Mr S employers policy schedule states that this policy is subject to the standard definition 
of incapacity. The policy says that the standard definition of incapacity means that:
The Member cannot perform the Material And Substantial Duties of their employment and 
they are not doing any paid work. (Emphasis added).
Ive turned next to consider whether Zurich handled each of Mr S claims fairly.
The first claim
Theres no dispute that Mr S was unable to work between 20 July 2020 and 11 January 
2021. However, what is clear is that he returned to work, on a phased basis, before the end 
of the deferred period on 18 January 2021. What this means is that Mr S was doing paid 
work prior to the expiry of the deferred period. And as such, he didnt meet the second limb 
of the incapacity definition. Accordingly, I dont find it was unfair for Zurich to conclude that 
he wasnt eligible for policy benefit for the period of his phased return plan.
Mr S states, and I agree, that page 17 of the policy includes the following provision:
If a Member can return to work during the Deferred Period in a reduced capacity as part of 
their rehabilitation programme, well consider a claim for partial Income Benefits at the end of 
the Deferred Period.
Whats clear is that Zurich does have discretion to consider claims for partial benefit if a 
member returns to work on a reduced basis ahead of the deferred period ending. This 
doesnt mean that Zurich will pay all such claims though  it will simply consider whether or 
partial benefit should be paid. 
In this case, the available evidence shows that Mr S wasnt on a reduced income during the 
period of his phased return to work. His employer continued to pay him full pay for the 
duration of his phased return plan. As Ive set out above, the policy requires a member to 
have suffered a loss of income in order for benefit to be payable. Mr S didnt suffer a loss of 
income between 11 January and 15 February 2021. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Zurich to decide not to pay a claim for partial benefit for this period.
The second claim
In April 2021, Mr S employer asked Zurich whether it would be prepared to pay partial 
benefit whilst Mr S worked reduced hours. Mr S says this period of part-time working wasnt 
for preventative reasons, but to allow recently prescribed medication time to work. I 
understand that Mr S did go on to work reduced hours between 29 April and 16 June 2021 
and that during this period, he suffered a loss of income.
But as Ive explained, the policy only covers a members incapacity. This means that Mr S 
needed to be unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to demonstrate, on balance, 
that they have a valid claim on their policy. This means it was for Mr S to provide Zurich with 
enough evidence to show he was prevented, by his incapacity, from carrying out the material 
and substantial duties of his role. By Mr S own account, he began to resume his full duties 
on 15 February 2021. While his migraines appear to have returned following such an 
increase in working hours, the evidence suggests that he was still carrying out his usual, full 
working duties while he worked reduced hours between 29 April and 16 June 2021. In his 
complaint form to us, Mr S said:I requested a period of reduced hours from 16 April 2021 to be reviewed on 16 June 2021 to 
allow the effectiveness of (medication) to be assessed.
It would seem then that Mr S had requested reduced hours in order to allow time to assess 
whether or not his new medication worked. I dont think though that this is enough evidence 
to demonstrate that Mr S was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his 
role, although I can entirely understand why he wished to find out how effective his new 
treatment was. And Ive seen a letter from Mr S treating specialist, dated 22 March 2021. 
While this letter refers to Mr S reporting an increase in the number of migraines he suffered 
following his full-time return to work, the specialist did not state that he wasnt fit for work or 
that it was necessary for his hours to be reduced. Instead, the specialist said that Mr S would 
benefit from a workplace assessment and referred to the new preventative medication which 
had been prescribed.
In my view then, having considered the totality of the evidence, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to conclude that Mr S hadnt shown that he met the policy definition 
of incapacity.
I appreciate Mr S believes that his claim should be paid under the following clause:
If we have paid benefit and we agree the Member is Incapacitated again from the same or 
related cause within 12 months of returning to work, the Deferred Period wont apply.
I dont agree. In order for cover to apply here, Zurich must a) have already paid benefit and 
b) agreed that a member is incapacitated again from the same or related cause. In this case, 
Zurich hadnt paid any benefit for the first claim and it hadnt concluded that Mr S had been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms.
It follows that I dont think Zurich acted unfairly when it turned down this claim.
Mr S treatment costs
I understand that Mr S has incurred significant expenses in undergoing private treatment and 
for the costs of his medication. However, this policy simply doesnt provide cover for a 
policyholders private medical or other expenses. Its purpose is to provide benefit for a 
members lost income if theyre unable to work due to incapacity. So whilst I appreciate Mr S 
considers he wouldve been off work for longer had he not pro-actively sought treatment, 
theres no section of this policy which would cover such costs. This means I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to decline to cover them.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr S position, I dont find there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Zurich to pay his claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman