DRN-3115595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) rejected a claim on their 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy about the sale of a health insurance policy. The firm that sold 
the policy to them agreed it had given incorrect information when arranging for Mr and Mrs M 
to switch from their existing policy to a new policy, and offered £150 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt think the offer was enough and made a claim on their legal expenses 
policy to pursue legal proceedings against the firm. IPA declined the claim, relying on a 
number of exclusions in the policy:
the policy excludes claims about financial service providers;
a claim could not be brought against a subsidiary of the same group of companies 
that IPA belongs to and the firm that sold the policy was part of the same group;
the value of the claim was likely to be less than the costs of pursuing it;
the claim was notified to them late, as it wasnt made within 180 days from the date 
they became aware of the incident, which is a requirement of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. In particular they said a contract of insurance is quite separate and 
distinct from a financial service and the firm hadnt provided any financial services to them. 
And they said the exclusion relating to claims against IPA wouldnt apply to other companies 
in the same group. 
They brought the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said: 
it was fair for IPA to rely on the exclusion relating to financial service providers;
in the exclusion for claims against IPA, the reference to IPA shouldnt apply to other 
companies in the same group  but the exclusion would also apply to any insurance 
adviser and so would apply to the firm Mr and Mrs M wanted to claim against;
there wasnt any evidence about the value of costs of pursuing the claim but this 
would have been considered if the claim had been accepted;
there were reasons why Mr and Mrs M hadnt made the claim earlier, and to rely on 
this exclusion IPA would need to show the delay had caused prejudice, which it 
hadnt done;
it was reasonable for IPA to reject the claim in reliance on the first two exclusions.
Mr and Mrs M have requested an ombudsmans decision. They say it wasnt reasonable for 
IPA to rely on any of the exclusions. 
In their view, it cant be fair to exclude a claim because the firm they wish to pursue became 
a subsidiary in the same group of companies as IPA; they are different entities. And they say 
a contract of insurance is not a financial product and this term should be interpreted in their 
favour since its not clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim Mr and Mrs M wished to make would on the face of it be covered by the policy, 
unless theres an exclusion that would prevent it being covered. IPA rejected Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim on the basis that several exclusions in the policy apply. So the complaint turns on 
whether those exclusions do apply and whether it was fair for IPA to rely on them. I will 
consider each exclusion in turn.
Exclusion for claims relating to financial services or products
Mr and Mrs Ms policy says there is no cover for any claim directly or indirectly arising 
from A dispute with a provider of financial services or products other than under Cover 3 
Employment Disputes
The claim Mr and Mrs M wished to pursue doesnt relate to an employment issue. So if the 
dispute is with a provider of financial services or products then this exclusion applies and 
the claim isnt covered. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M say a contract of insurance is distinct from 
a financial service, but financial services covers a wide range of services and products. Mr 
and Mrs M say the term isnt clear but I dont think its unclear. 
A generally accepted definition of financial services would include insurance. And the firm Mr 
and Mrs M wanted to pursue their claim against was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
Taking all of this into account I think IPA considering that firm to be a provider of financial 
services is reasonable. And the dispute with them arises from the services provided to Mr 
and Mrs M. I dont think IPA acted unfairly when deciding the claim they wished to bring was 
excluded from cover on this basis.
Exclusion for claims by or against your insurance advisor, the insurance providers, the 
adviser, or us
I agree the definition of the insurance providers only refers to IPA and a policyholder 
wouldnt reasonably think this applies to other firms that are part of the same group, since 
they are different entities. So it wouldnt be reasonable to say the firm in question was the 
insurance provider. But the term also refers to insurance adviser which is wider and I think 
that would apply to the firm that sold the insurance to Mr and Mrs M.
Other exclusions
IPA referred to an exclusion for claims where the value is not proportionate to the costs of 
pursuing it. This is a common term and I wouldnt expect an insurer to provide cover if the 
costs of pursuing the claim are likely to be more than the value of the claim. But in this case 
there wasnt any evidence of the value or the costs and it wouldnt be reasonable to rely on 
this term until that information was considered properly.
Finally, IPA said Mr and Mrs M didnt make their claim within the timescale given in the 
policy terms. There were reasons why Mr and Mrs M delayed making their claim and I dont 
think it would be fair to prejudice them for trying to mitigate their costs by pursuing 
matters in the way they did. In any event, even if they were late, that wouldnt necessarily mean the claim isnt covered; 
IPA would need to show the delay had caused some prejudice to its ability to deal with the 
claim and I dont think it has shown this.
Summary 
It wasnt fair to rely on all of the exclusions IPA referred to. But Im satisfied the claim arose 
from a dispute about providing financial services. Such claims are excluded and in the 
circumstances I think it was fair for IPA to reject the claim on that basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman