DRN-3377613
The complaint
Mr H complains Hyperformance Limited, trading as Insure Your Motor, caused delays when 
adding European cover to his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr H said he spent many hours on the phone trying to set up and then extend European 
cover on his motor insurance policy  so he complained to Hyperformance.
Hyperformance said they understood Mr Hs complaint related to being unhappy with the 
general level of service and time taken on the phone. This was for trying to change his 
vehicle and being able to travel in Europe for longer than four weeks on a comprehensive 
basis. They said they understood in particular he wasnt happy with an agent he spoke to on 
12 July 2021, that the insurer took a long time to reply to the request for European cover  
and that agents disconnected calls. They understood Mr H wanted £5,000 compensation.
Hyperformance explained theyd listened to all calls between 12 and 23 July. They said once 
Mr H was able to speak to an agent, the calls were lengthy due to him asking for a 
discounted premium, disputing cancellation charges and asking for the admin fee to be 
waived. They said Mr H was also not happy with being told additional admin fees would be 
charged if changes were made on a different day. 
The agent Mr H spoke to said he needed details of Mr Hs travel in order to refer it to the 
insurer to check cover. Hyperformance said theyre a broker, and its the insurers choice not 
theirs whether to grant this cover  so they have to gather all the details. But, say Mr H 
wasnt prepared to provide this, was rude and kept insulting the agent. Hyperformance said 
they agreed to waive fees for making these changes and honoured this later on when the 
change was eventually made.
For the second part of Mr Hs complaint as Hyperformance saw it, he was unhappy with 
delays from the insurer  but they said this was out of their control, so he should take it up 
with the insurer.
Hyperformance noted Mr Hs comment he was on hold for an hour on 20 July 2021, and 
then got disconnected. They said Mr H was disconnected because he swore at staff 
members and used bad language. And, when asked not to, he didnt stop, so they say they 
had no choice but to end the call.
On 21 July 2021 Hyperformance say Mr H called back to check if the insurer had replied yet. 
The agent contacted the insurer, who said they wouldnt grant comprehensive cover over 28 
days  and were only willing to offer a maximum of 28 days comprehensive European cover. 
They said Mr H paid a £300 premium for this, and as promised waived their £50 fee.
Overall, they felt despite Mr Hs behaviour, their agents had handled things professionally 
and appropriately. To help Mr H they waived their fees and worked within their authority as a 
broker. So, they wouldnt be offering £5,000 compensation.
Unhappy with this Mr H contacted us and asked us to look into things. He said his time costs 
money, so he expected £700 compensation. And he said hed been overcharged for the 
insurance.
One of our Investigators looked into things. He explained to Mr H any issues regarding the 
insurer  including the time they took to reply, and the premium they charged  were for 
them to answer, not Hyperformance. And, for the complaint against Hyperformance, he felt 
£150 was fair due to the time spent chasing them for answers on the phone.
Hyperformance didnt think this was a fair outcome. They said when Mr H called on 
12 July 2021, he was prepared to go ahead with a change of vehicle request and then asked 
about adding European cover. But he wasnt aware of his travel dates and opted to call back 
another time. They said it was this confirmation that delayed their ability to provide a quote 
from the insurer  as they needed to know the travel dates. They said they thought itd be 
fairer to discount any communications from 12 July until Mr H confirmed his travel dates  
which meant they could process the change. They felt awarding £150 when Mr H continued 
to be rude and abusive wasnt right. Instead, they suggested waiving any future admin fees 
until the end of the policy on 18 February 2022. Later on, they suggested adding £25 
compensation to this.
Mr H didnt accept these offers and asked for the matter to be referred on  so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear in asking me to look into his complaint, Mr H is asking me to decide 
what a fair and reasonable outcome is taking into account all of the information provided. 
This means its now for me to decide what offer, if any, is appropriate.
I also wanted to make it clear my role isnt to judge Mr Hs behaviour in the course of his 
complaint, but whether Hyperformance have acted fairly in how theyve dealt with him. This 
means if theyve made a mistake leading to an impact on Mr H, itd still be appropriate to 
award compensation.
From what I can see Mr H didnt know his travel dates initially, but Hyperformance had 
explained this is something the insurer would need to know before they could offer a quote 
for European cover. So, I agree with Hyperformances view that contact between 12 July and 
when Mr H confirmed his travel dates should be discounted. 
Ive seen some delays were caused as a result of the insurer not getting back to 
Hyperformance after theyd asked on Mr Hs behalf if cover could be extended past 28 days. 
But I cant hold Hyperformance responsible for this if they were doing all they could to get 
the insurer to reply. From the information Ive seen they were chasing the insurer on multiple 
occasions trying to get Mr H an answer. So, if Mr H remains unhappy with this element, he 
may wish to raise a complaint against his insurer.
Ive noted our Investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint and awarded £150  saying 
Hyperformance didnt tell him about the ten-day waiting time when he called on 12 July.While Ive seen thats true, Ive also seen Mr H calling up and asking the same questions on 
multiple occasions even when hes had an answer  so I cant realistically say 
Hyperformances error here had led to this detriment for Mr H. Where an error has been 
made, Im required to consider what impact there would have been. Here, I cant see there 
would have been an impact, as Mr H continued to call even about the same issues even 
when hed been told the answer already.
Overall, from what I can see, once Mr H gave Hyperformance the information theyd asked 
for, and a reply had been received from the insurer, the matter was resolved promptly. I think 
essentially Hyperformance were stuck between needing information from Mr H to move 
matters forward, along with trying to get a reply from the insurer. I cant see that theyve 
caused the problems Mr H experienced, so I dont think itd be fair to require them to pay 
compensation.
Ive noted Hyperformance stepped outside of their policy terms when not applying the £50 
change fee for adding the European cover  so, in all the circumstances of this case, I think 
that was a fair approach for Hyperformance to take, and I dont require them to do anything 
further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H replied and said due to his complaint Hyperformance werent renewing his policy. He 
said hed managed to find a cheaper price with another provider.
Hyperformance replied and said they didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Hs comments. But, to reiterate, Hyperformance dont set the price of his 
insurance, the insurer his policy is placed with do. So, while I understand his frustration that 
hes now been able to find a cheaper price, this wouldnt be down to Hyperformance.
As Mr H, and Hyperformance, didnt provide any further information regarding the specific 
concerns raised, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome I reached. I think 
Hyperformance not applying the £50 change fee for adding the European cover when they 
could have is a fair approach for them to have taken.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman