DRN-3017860
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the decision made by QIC Europe Ltd following a claim for theft under 
his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K contacted QIC to report his car stolen on 7 January 2020. QIC contacted Mr K to 
discuss the circumstances of the theft. During the call Mr K provided the following 
information:
Representative: How many keys in total have you ever had for the vehicle?
Mr K: Two.
Representative: Can you please confirm where each of the keys are now?
Mr K: One of the keys is in the house, and one of the keys was in the centre console 
of the car. I think. 
Representative: Which key was it that you believe to have been in the vehicle?
Mr K: The spare key. 
Representative: The spare key?
Mr K: Yes. 
Following this call Mr K was told his claim would be reviewed, and hed hear back on the 
outcome. Mr K called QIC for updates on 17, 22 and 24 January. 
During the call on 24 January Mr K was asked about the spare key. The following 
conversation took place:
Mr K: I had my spare keys in the centre console but theyre not visible. They were 
under a flap, under a set of gloves.
Representative: Did you say youve incurred some costs to changing locks etc? 
Mr K: I changed the locks to my house because my house keys were attached to 
those spare keys. So yes, I have. 
Mr K was told that because of his admission that the spare key was in his car, the claim 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Mr K was unhappy with the decision by QIC, and raised a complaint. 
On 30 January QIC wrote to Mr K and confirmed that it wouldnt be able to cover the theft of 
the Mr Ks car. Mr K was told that the circumstances of the theft fell under the exclusions for 
the policy, which said the policy wouldnt cover:
loss of or damage to the insured vehicle and/or audio equipment while you are not in 
the insured vehicle arising from theft or attempted theft when:
1. ignition keys, or any other device which unlocks and/or starts the insured vehicle, 
have been left in or on the insured vehicle
QIC also referred to the General Terms and Conditions of Mr Ks policy which said:
You or any person in charge of the insured vehicle are required to take all reasonable 
care to safeguard it and its contents from loss or damage, for example the insured 
vehicle should not be left unlocked and ignition keys should not be left in or on the 
insured vehicle when you or any permitted drivers are not in the insured vehicle, no 
matter how briefly. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this response, and so referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator found that QIC had acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy 
exclusion, and didnt recommend it take any steps to put things right. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view saying Im covered for theft- my car was stolen 
and nothing is getting done about it and I cant prove whether key was in the car was not, I 
changed the house locks as a precaution.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr K. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, and I wont be recommending QIC do anything more. I 
can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr K but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.   
Mr K feels strongly that QIC has treated him unfairly by rejecting his claim after his car was 
stolen. Mr K says he is being penalised for being honest. I dont doubt what Mr K has told 
QIC, or this service about what happened to his car. But I wouldnt be able to ask QIC to pay 
for Mr Ks claim unless there was evidence to support that the claim circumstances satisfied 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy. 
The terms under the policy explained that the car should not be left unlocked and ignition 
keys should not be left in or on the insured vehicle when you or any permitted drivers are not 
in the insured vehicle. The policy exclusion also clearly explained the policy wouldnt provide 
cover where ignition keys, or any other device which unlocks and/or starts the insured 
vehicle, have been left in or on the insured vehicle.When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether QIC acted fairly and reasonably when 
applying the policy exclusion to deny Mr Ks claim.  
When Mr K first discussed his claim, and was asked about the spare key, his response was 
One of the keys is in the house, and one of the keys was in the centre console of the car. I 
think. Its fair to say that Mr K felt reasonably confident that the spare key had been left in 
the centre console of the car. Even if there was any doubt about Mr Ks response, this was 
clarified during the later call with a representative on 24 January. Mr K was again asked 
about the spare key. Without hesitation, Mr K replied I had my spare keys in the centre 
console but theyre not visible. They were under a flap, under a set of gloves. Here, not only 
did Mr K confirm the location of the spare key, but also went as far as detailing where they 
were usually kept. 
Although Mr K disputes the location of the spare key at this time, Im reasonably satisfied 
that QIC acted fairly in taking the information provided by Mr K during the claims process, to 
reach a decision on his claim. The policy terms were clear in excluding cover when ignition 
keys, or any other device which unlocks and/or starts the insured vehicle, have been left in 
or on the insured vehicle. Having considered the evidence, I think QICs decision to decline 
Mr Ks claim was fair, and in line with the policy terms. 
I appreciate Mr Ks disappointment with whats happened. This situation has clearly left Mr K 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask QIC to pay for the claim, 
given the evidence thats been provided, and what the policy terms explained about the 
circumstances in which cover wouldnt be provided. I havent seen any evidence to persuade 
me that QICs actions were wrong, or outside of the policy terms. So I wont be asking QIC to 
take any further action in response to this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman