DRN-3728920
The complaint
Ms B complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down a claim she made on a private
medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a brief
summary of the key events.
In September 2019, Ms B took out a personal private medical insurance policy. This policy
was underwritten on a moratorium basis, which meant that Vitality wouldnt provide cover
for any pre-existing medical conditions a policyholder had had (including symptoms of that
condition) in the five years before the policy was taken out.
In March 2020, Ms B was diagnosed with Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) by a
neurologist and she made a claim on her policy. Vitality turned down Ms Bs claim. Thats
because it concluded the medical evidence showed that Ms B had suffered symptoms of
BPPV in the five years before the policy had been taken out.
Ms B was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought the medical
evidence did indicate that Ms B had been suffering from symptoms of BPPV in the five years
before the policy was taken out. So he thought itd been fair for Vitality to turn down the
claim.
Ms B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Subsequently, I asked for additional medical evidence from Ms Bs treating neurologist about
her condition. The consultant provided further evidence and concluded with the following
statement:
In my opinion, the BPPV found in March 2020 definitely represented a new diagnosis or
problem (of <2 months duration),and was not a chronic or pre-existant (sic)condition.'
I asked Vitality for its comments on the neurologists evidence. In brief, it responded to say
that it could now accept the claim, at least for the additional consultation and diagnostic
tests. It asked Ms B to forward invoices to allow it to review the contribution it could provide
for Ms Bs condition. And it said that it couldnt fully cover the costs of treatment or diagnostic
tests which hadnt taken place at a hospital on Ms Bs list. So I put Vitalitys offer to Ms B.
Ms B didnt accept the offer. She felt the offer included too many conditions. She disputed
that shed had treatment which had taken place off-list. She referred to previous surgery
shed undergone and Vitalitys contribution to it, which she said showed its policy was fluid
and varied from case to case. She requested that I direct Vitality to pay her claim in full,
given it had ignored medical facts and there was ambiguity in the way it had interpreted her
medical condition. She asked whether I could reprimand Vitality.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained why I intended to direct Vitality to reconsider Ms Bs claim, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I said:
First, its important that I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and so we have 
no power to punish or fine the financial businesses we cover. Our role is to look into 
individual complaints brought by consumers where a consumer feels a business has done 
something wrong which has caused them to lose out. And if we think a financial business 
has made an error, we consider what it should do to put things right.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Theres no dispute that the terms of Ms Bs contract with Vitality exclude pre-existing
conditions a policyholder has suffered from in the five years before a policyholder took out
their policy  including symptoms of that condition. Based on the medical evidence provided
to it, Vitality concluded that Ms B had been suffering from symptoms of BPPV in the relevant
moratorium period. The medical evidence on the claim form completed by a GP stated that
Ms B had suffered from dizziness (a symptom of BPPV) in September 2015 and headaches
(another symptom of BPPV) and dizziness in March 2017. Both of these episodes happened
in the five years before the policy was taken out.
However, it has now had the chance to consider the new evidence provided by Ms Bs
consultant neurologist, which Ive referred to above. This states unequivocally that Ms Bs
condition definitely represented a new diagnosis, which wasnt pre-existing. This ties-in with
further evidence provided in June 2021 by the GP who completed Ms Bs claim form, which
stated that Ms Bs symptoms had represented a different, newly diagnosed condition. Vitality
did ask Ms Bs consultant for further information about Ms Bs condition at that point, which it
said indicated that Ms Bs symptoms had been present for some time. But, following its
review of the new evidence from the consultant, Vitality has now agreed to accept the claim
and to consider it, albeit it has stated that it wont be in a position to fully cover any tests or
treatment which took place off-list.
I was pleased to note that Vitality has now agreed to accept and consider this claim. For
completeness, I should make clear that based on the neurologists evidence, had Vitality not
overturned its original claims decision, I wouldve directed it to do so and to reassess the
claim without reference to the pre-existing condition exclusion.
Nonetheless, Im not planning to direct Vitality to pay Ms Bs claim. Ms B complained to us
that Vitality had declined her claim because it considered it to be caught by the moratorium.
Vitality has now accepted the claim and so I think its reasonable for Vitality to be given an
opportunity to reconsider it in line with the remaining terms and conditions of its contract with
Ms B. It will be for Ms B to provide Vitality with the evidence it requires to determine which of
Ms Bs costs are covered by the policy terms and conditions  whether fully, partially or
potentially not covered. I dont have copies of Ms Bs invoices and it would be inappropriate
for me to direct Vitality to pay a claim when it hasnt had sight of all of the claims information
it needs to assess the claim, or to check which costs are payable.
Ms B says that she hasnt had treatment off-list. Again, this is something for Vitality to
determine when it assesses the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. I note that
Ms Bs policy doesnt fully exclude claims for treatment in a hospital which isnt on her list 
the policy states that Ms B will need to pay 40% of her treatment costs at an off-list hospital.
But as Ive set out, it would be inappropriate for me to make a finding about Vitalitys actualpolicy liability before it has had an opportunity to reconsider Ms Bs claim taking into account
all of the evidence it requires.
If Ms B is unhappy with any settlement she receives, its open to her to make a new
complaint to Vitality about this point. We may then be in a position to consider a new
complaint about that issue alone.
Overall, I currently find that the fair outcome to this complaint is for Vitality to reconsider Ms
Bs claim, without reference to the pre-existing condition exclusion and in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Vitality accepted my provisional findings.
Ms B made further submissions. She felt that her GP had provided the same comments 
about her medical condition in February 2020 which the neurologist had recently provided. 
She felt Vitality had ignored this evidence. She said that previously, Vitality had agreed to 
pay 80% of the costs of treatment at an off-list hospital, rather than 60%. She maintained 
that she would like Vitality to pay her claim in full to allow her to forget the stress it had 
caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still find that the fair outcome to this complaint is for Vitality to reconsider 
Ms Bs claim, without reference to the pre-existing condition exclusion, and in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I accept that over two years have passed since Ms B made her claim and I dont doubt that 
she has found the situation frustrating and upsetting. I also acknowledge that, in June 2020, 
a GP indicated that Ms Bs condition was different and unrelated to anything shed had 
before. 
But the medical evidence which had been provided to Vitality in March 2020, by Ms Bs 
neurologist, suggested that she had experienced symptoms of headaches and dizziness 
before taking out the policy. And the claim form completed in 2020 (by the GP who later sent 
the June 2020 letter), stated that Ms B had suffered from symptoms of BPPV in the form of 
headaches and dizziness in the five years before the policy was taken out. Taken together, 
this evidence had been suggestive that Ms B may have been suffering from symptoms of 
BPPV in the five years before the policy began. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Vitality to place more weight on the specialist evidence of the neurologist and the information 
on the claim form when it initially assessed the claim. 
However, upon review of the neurologists new evidence, Vitality has now agreed to accept 
this claim. And Im still persuaded that this is a fair and appropriate response from Vitality. As 
I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think I could fairly direct Vitality to pay Ms Bs 
claim. Thats because I still think its fair for Vitality to be provided with an opportunity to 
request any additional evidence it may need and consider the costs Ms B has claimed for in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And it remains the case that I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to determine Vitalitys actual liability before its had the 
chance to consider the claim further and take into account any additional evidence it requires. 
So my final decision is that Vitality must reconsider Ms Bs claim, without reference to the 
pre-existing condition exclusion and in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. It will be for Ms B for provide Vitality with any reasonable evidence it may need to 
reassess this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I direct Vitality Health Limited to reconsider Ms Bs claim, subject to the remaining
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman