DRN-3259139
The complaint
Mr D complains about two loans provided to him by AvantCredit Limited trading as 
AvantCredit, which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mr D with two guarantor loans. The details of which are given in this 
table:
Number Date Amount Instalments Repayments
1 30/03/2015 £2000 18 £135.20
2 25/01/2016 £5000 36 £224.06
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She concluded 
AvantCredit didnt carry out proportionate checks on either occasion. She then went on to 
conclude that if AvantCredit had carried out further checks, it would have seen the loans 
were not affordable for Mr D.
AvantCredit partially agreed with our investigator. It said it agreed with the findings she gave 
for loan 1. But it disagreed with what she said about loan 2. It says it did nothing wrong when 
it provided the second loan to Mr D. It says loan 2 was used for debt consolidation and any 
short term loan Mr D had, could have been paid off and then his monthly repayment for 
credit would decrease by a lot and give Mr D more disposable income. 
AvantCredit has agreed with our investigators findings for loan 1. So as there is no dispute 
here, I will not look any further into this other than to say that I have looked into this loan and 
agree with the findings made by the investigator. I will be including loan 1 in the section for 
putting things right at the end of my decision. I will though be looking into loan 2 in further 
detail. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When AvantCredit lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
AvantCredit was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ds creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
means that AvantCredit had to consider both the risk to it that Mr D wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr D of not being able to make 
these repayments. In particular, AvantCredit had to consider Mr Ds ability to make 
repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment 
he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did AvantCredit then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I can see that AvantCredit asked Mr D about his income and expenditure when it assessed 
his affordability for loan 2. It has told our service that it adjusted Mr Ds income and 
expenditure based on an online verification tool for his income, and its own calculations 
using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says it made its calculations about Mr Ds 
expenditure by using what it saw in his credit report and what Mr D declared to it.  
It increased Mr Ds declared income slightly to £4875 after verifying this. It then increased 
what Mr D says his expenditure was, based on checks it carried out this included a credit 
search. 
Ive carefully considered what AvantCredit has said about how it calculated Mr Ds 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because I think it would have seen enough from its checks that ought to have given it concerns. At least enough that I think, the checks should have alerted it to wanting to find 
out more.
I say this because I can see there was a discrepancy between what Mr S said about his 
expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think AvantCredit should 
have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr S wasnt being truthful 
about his expenditure in this case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr S said 
his expenditure was and what AvantCredit wouldve calculated it was, was wide. The credit 
report shows Mr S was paying over £1200 a month in credit repayments alone, whereas he 
declared all of his expenditure was less than this. In addition, his credit search results listed 
that he had taken out 5 short term loans within the past 3 months. So, I think AvantCredit 
should either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or it 
shouldnt have provided Mr S with the loan. This leads me to think that AvantCredit needed 
to take additional steps to verify what Mr Ss actual monthly expenditure was. 
I dont think that the checks AvantCredit carried out before providing Mr D with this loan were 
reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr D would need to meet his loan 
repayments over 36 months and the amount he was asking to borrow had increased quite a 
bit from his first loan application. So, as I have concluded that AvantCredit needed to carry 
out further checks for the loan, I need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
AvantCredit was required to establish whether Mr D could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr D. He was able to provide bank 
statements for the weeks leading up to the day he was granted this loan. Ive looked through 
these statements and having done so, its clear Mr D was heavily reliant on using finance by 
other short-term lenders. I can see on these statements that Mr D was regularly borrowing 
and repaying money from 4 different short-term loan providers and had in the month leading 
up to him asking for a loan with AvantCredit repaid around £4500 in repayments to them. I 
agree with our investigator when she said Mr D was paying out more than was coming into 
his account, and the primary reason for this was that he was borrowing heavily in short term 
finance. It is clear to me after seeing this that Mr D was struggling to manage his finances 
and the repayments he had to make on these loans, meant he would have had to carry on 
lending in order to meet his commitments. In short, the loan repayments for this loan from 
AvantCredit wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown AvantCredit that Mr D would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that AvantCredits failure to carry out 
proportionate checks for this loan resulted in it unfairly providing it to Mr D.
So, it follows that I uphold Mr Ds complaint about both loans and AvantCredit needs to put 
things right for the reasons given above.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for loans 1 and 2. With this in mind, AvantCredit should:
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of being given loans 1 
and 2. The payments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount. Any 
payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr D was given should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to him;If there is a balance still to repay, then AvantCredit should look to work out an 
affordable payment plan with Mr D
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr D to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ds credit file because of loans 1 and 
2
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
AvantCredit Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman