DRN-4187087
The complaint
Mr S complains Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim under his legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr S took out an LEI policy in June 2022. Its underwritten by Amtrust. 
Mr S made a claim in September 2022 for legal cover regarding a dispute with his 
employer. He said his employer discriminated against him by failing to interview him, 
and by citing poor performance as a reason for not doing so.   
Amtrust declined the claim saying the issue giving rise to the legal dispute arose 
before the policy started. It said Mr S employers decision to not interview him was 
based on him underperforming  and him not being able to perform was connected to 
his employer failing to implement reasonable adjustments. 
Mr S disagreed and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. 
Mr S disagreed with the Investigators view, saying:
oThe initial complaint about making reasonable adjustments in a timely manner 
was upheld by his employer and has nothing to do with the subsequent job 
application, which is a separate act of discrimination. 
oPerformance was one criterion that was used by his employer and there were 
no metrics in place to measure this. 
oHis employer shortlisted him but failed to interview him as managers were 
unaware that he should have been interviewed in accordance with his 
employers guaranteed interview scheme. So, the incidents are not related.
oThe duty to consider and implement reasonable adjustments is continuous. 
All acts of discrimination are separate incidents and can only be related if the 
discriminatory conduct is by the same people or process. 
The investigator considered Mr S points but her opinion remained the same. As Mr S 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue to be decided here is whether the legal dispute - for which Mr S is seeking cover - 
first arose before the policy started as Amtrust has declined the claim on the basis that it did. 
The starting point is the policy document which defines Insured Incident as The incident, 
or the first of a series of incidents, which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one 
Insured incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents or 
events that are related by cause or time. In other words, where an incident, which gives rise 
to a legal claim, arises before the start of the policy, and is connected to a later incident by 
cause or time, cover wont be provided. 
So, I have to consider whether the legal dispute about Mr S employer allegedly 
discriminating against him - by not interviewing him - can be traced back to having occurred 
before the policy started. 
Mr S considers the issue about not being interviewed to be distinct from the issue about 
reasonable adjustments not being implemented. But whats key is whether an incident arose 
prior to the policy starting which may lead to a claim under the insurance and is connected to 
what happened later. To determine this, Ive looked at the evidence provided. 
In his grievance from September 2022, Mr S says: this is my grievance in relation to actions 
or omissions whilst employed [] since last October 2021. Given Mr S policy started in 
June 2022, Im satisfied events mentioned in the grievance pre-date the policy start date. But 
that alone isnt enough to say a claim shouldnt be covered. To do so, I need to be satisfied 
the issues are connected by cause or time as per the policy terms. 
Having read Mr S grievance, Im persuaded they are, and I say this because he makes 
specific reference to reasonable adjustments not being implemented properly and the impact 
this had on his performance. 
I made it clear on my application that I was disabled. Prior to commencing 
employment I had discussions with my line Manager of reasonable adjustments that I 
required in the performance of my role. 
 I was informed [] this was a non-standard request [] and instead agreed to 
supply a large screen. This setup is not effective for me due to my disability and 
whilst it may provide some assistance it is unsuitable.
Of particular note are the following statements where Mr S acknowledges his current under 
performance  and one of the reasons he wasnt interviewed  was connected to his 
employer not implementing reasonable adjustments.
I received feedback [] that the reason I did not get shortlisted was due to my 
underperformance in my current position [].
My current performance was related to failures in recognising details of my disability 
and making reasonable adjustments.
So, based on the evidence, Im satisfied Mrs S employers alleged failure to implement 
reasonable adjustments is related to its decision not to interview Mr S. Ultimately, both relate 
to Mr S performance and are inextricably linked.
And as Mr S grievance covers events from 2021  when he first started working for his 
employer - Im satisfied its reasonable for Amtrust to say the incident now giving rise to a legal claim can be traced back to having first occurred before the policy started in June 
2022. 
I know Mr S strongly feels that not being interviewed was a separate act of discrimination 
and therefore the first insured incident, but for the reasons explained above, I dont agree. 
And so, Im not persuaded Amtrust has treated him unfairly by declining the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman