DRN-3515096
The complaint
Miss S complains that under a hire-purchase agreement, Oodle Financial Services Limited
supplied her with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Miss S is assisted in bringing her
complaint by her partner (A).
What happened
On 9 November 2018, Miss S took receipt of a car shed seen at a dealer (D) by means of 
a hire-purchase agreement with Oodle. Under the terms of the hire-purchase agreement, 
Oodle acquired the car from D and supplied it to Miss S. The agreement states the cash 
price of the car as £12,359, with Miss S paying £1,000 deposit.
Within 30 days of Miss S taking receipt of the car, A contacted Oodle to report a number of 
issues with the car. According to Oodles records, A listed the following problems with the 
car:
vibrations through the steering wheel when driving home following collection. A had 
been advised the vibrations were due to a front-end impact which A didnt think had 
been repaired through an insurer as nothing showed on an HPI check
tyres spllt to cord
where the front bumper meets the wing is glued and cable-tied in place
passenger headlight brackets broken and lamp not secure
driver headlight is glued in place and fix has been painted black to disguise
parking sensors do not work as covered in black paint
A said hed been advised by Trading Standards to obtain an assessment of necessary 
remedial work, which indicated a likely cost in the region of £5,500. I understand Oodle was 
provided with a copy of this assessment.
Later in December 2018, A provided Oodle with details of further problems with the car. A 
told Oodle theyd tried to reject the car through D and a third party credit broker (C) without 
success. Oodle contacted C, who told it that the issues with the car were merely cosmetic, 
and that while D was willing to repair the car, it had struggled to identify significant defects. C 
further noted that D had supplied Miss S with a courtesy car. However, A had also reported 
problems with this vehicle.
In April 2019 Oodle sent an email to Miss S to say that C had told it that repairs had been 
carried out on the car and that Miss S was now happy with the situation. Oodle didnt receive 
a response to that email and closed its file. A couple of months later Oodle reopened the file
after further contact. At that point C told Oodle that D was trying to sell the car for Miss S, 
and that they would use the sale proceeds to repay the balance of the finance.
Oodle issued a final response letter to Miss S in August 2019. It set out its view that the 
problems with the car didnt entitle Miss S to reject it, that repairs were carried out, and that 
once the car was sold, the finance would need to be settled. Miss S was dissatisfied with 
Oodles response and referred matters to us.
Over the following months, Oodle received several enquiries from third parties in relation to 
the car, including salvage companies and in respect of HPI checks. The car appears to have 
been logged as an insurance write-off in August 2019. In March 2020, A expressed concern 
to Oodle that C was contacting it without authority to make enquiries about the position on 
the finance. Following this, Oodle received notification from an insurer that the car was the 
subject of an insurance claim that had been paid to a further third party, another garage.
Our investigator felt A had provided sufficient evidence to support Miss Ss claim that the 
vehicle Oodle supplied to her was not of satisfactory quality. The investigator also noted 
Oodle hadnt appeared to have done very much in terms of investigating the concerns about 
the vehicle faults. Miss S had since made arrangements with D to sell the car, with the sale 
proceeds being used in reduction of the balance of the hire-purchase agreement.
Overall, our investigator considered the fair way to resolve matters would be for Oodle to 
unwind the hire-purchase agreement, treating it as if it had never been entered into. She 
proposed that Oodle return the payments Miss S had made towards the agreement, along 
with her deposit, fees and with interest. She also proposed that any record of the hire-
purchase agreement should be removed from Miss Ss credit file.
response to our investigators assessment
Oodle didnt appear to dispute the conclusion that the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
However, it didnt agree with the proposals suggested in resolution saying, in summary:
Miss S had use of the vehicle from November 2018 up until the vehicle was given 
back to the dealer in February 2020. It should be able to make a deduction from any 
refund to take into account the use she had of the car. Cs correspondence 
suggested this use was between 3-4,000 miles a month.
From June 2019 C in effect took over the repayments on the agreement by making 
monthly bank transfers direct to A, who then transferred the money to Oodle. In or 
around June 2020, C made a payment of £1,474.92 direct to Oodle. And around this 
time D also made two payments to A totalling £6,000, apparently so that A could 
clear the finance. Only £3,000 of this was actually forwarded on to Oodle, though the 
full amount would have been sufficient to pay off the remaining hire-purchase 
balance. This was only cleared in February 2021 as a result of various payments 
received over time
Oodle suggested that it would be reasonable to offset the payments Miss S and A had 
themselves made  which Oodle calculated as six months payments (a sum of £1,689.66) 
against the deduction for fair use; in other words, that it wouldnt be refunding the payments. 
Oodle didnt comment on the investigators recommendations about refunding the deposit or 
fees, or amending Miss Ss credit file.
A, on the other hand, didnt think the investigators proposals went far enough, saying:
[The circumstances have] left us with some debt, which we feel has been in direct 
result of this situation. Not only has this affected us mentally, it has caused great 
conflict within the relationship. I have had many problems with my travel to work and 
have had to lose several days work without pay through not having any 
transportation. I then have had to take out several rentals. Also as for the mileage 
accumulation, well we have not had this car in our possession since the end of 
January 2019 so the mileage cant possibly be from us.When the car was first returned to the dealer instead of the dealer fixing the repairs 
he then used the car for a minimum period of three months for his own Indian 
takeaway business. We were told this information by C who then took the car into 
their own possession from the dealer three months after we originally handed it back.
We also know that after this the car has also been sold twice in this period after to 
which I have evidence of at least one of those sales. After these sales the car had 
been returned to C as the car had still been deemed faulty by the customer.
Another point I wish to make is at the time of the purchase from ourselves not only 
did we put down a deposit of £1,000, we also part exchanged our vehicle to the value 
of £4,500 which we do have the receipt for and need to be suitably compensated for.
As the parties were unable to agree to the investigators proposals, the dispute has been
passed to me for review and determination.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought matters should be resolved. I said:
Oodle supplied the car to Miss S, a consumer, under a hire-purchase agreement, a 
form of credit-related regulated activity. As such, a complaint relating to that activity is 
covered by our compulsory jurisdiction, to which Oodle is subject. Hire-purchase 
agreements entered into by consumers are covered by legislation including the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974) and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA2015), which implies certain terms into the contract to supply the car.
Taking into account when A notified Oodle of the problems with the car, the 
CRA2015 places the onus on Oodle to demonstrate that the car was of satisfactory 
quality, taking account of matters such as any description of the car and the price 
paid. The CRA2015 says that quality of goods includes aspects such as appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Given the description A supplied to Oodle within a month of Miss S taking receipt of 
the car, there were clearly concerns over whether the car met a number of those 
tests. A has provided screenshots of correspondence with C during November 2018 
that demonstrate Miss S was seeking to reject the car. A also provided Oodle with a 
third party assessment of the cars condition and remedial work required.
Its apparent from Oodles own case notes that it has placed a significant amount of 
reliance on what it was being told by C about the condition of the car, and about the 
rectification work D was carrying out, possibly more so than it placed on the evidence 
it had from A. Given the inconsistency with the information Oodle received from C 
about the cars condition, I question whether Oodle should have so readily accepted 
what it was being told by C.
At no point does Oodle appear to have sought or obtained any comparable evidence 
to demonstrate that the car met the requirement that it was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Miss S. The available evidence at that point ought to have 
suggested to Oodle that it was not.
There is an exception under the CRA2015 that says that the satisfactory quality term 
doesnt apply where issues are specifically drawn to the consumers attention, or 
where the consumer examines the goods, before the contract is made, which that examination ought to reveal. Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that either 
of these exceptions should apply.
That leads me to think Oodle hasnt discharged its obligation to demonstrate it 
supplied Miss S with a car that was of satisfactory quality. Based on the evidence I 
have seen, I find that Oodle supplied Miss S with a car that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, which she sought to reject within the 30-day timescale specified in the 
CRA2015 as the short-term right to reject. The CRA2015 has the effect that in such 
circumstances Miss S is entitled to treat the contract as at an end, and  without 
undue delay  to receive a refund of the part of the price paid.
Putting things right
Applying that position in this case has been complicated by the approach taken by 
the parties involved. C has apparently been liaising with D about repairs, though 
Miss S and A made clear in December 2018 that they wanted to reject the car. C has 
also apparently been making payments towards the finance agreement, as has D. 
The car has been sold  possibly twice  notwithstanding that the party who held title 
to the car was Oodle.
I make little criticism of Miss S or A in this respect. Oodles contact notes indicate it 
was aware that D was intending to sell the car and that the proceeds would be used 
to repay the finance agreement. Oodle was also prepared to accept that a repair 
would be an effective remedy, despite Miss Ss express rejection. The impression I 
have gathered from Oodles contact notes and the surrounding circumstances is that 
C and Ds decision to attempt repair  and later, to sell the car to repay the finance  
was made irrespective of Miss Ss wishes, and in my view this should not have been 
treated as being at her request. At best, she and A went along with the actions C and 
D had decided to take instead of addressing her rights as a consumer.
I recognise that C and D took these actions without involving Oodle. But Id expect 
Oodle to have greater knowledge in this field than Miss S. And I think it was 
incumbent on Oodle to understand the obligations it carried in light of her rejection, 
the requirement on Miss S to make the car available for collection, and  if 
appropriate  to make clear any objection it had to the sale arrangements.
I also see from Oodles notes that there was no little confusion over the way in which 
the finance was to be settled. Theres mention of the car being written off, and an 
insurance claim in or around March 2020. None of this was based on anything Miss 
S or A had told Oodle  theyve said they no longer had the car from February 2019.
The way Oodle handled these matters suggests to me it didnt have a full 
understanding of what was, to be fair, a complicated situation. But I am minded to 
conclude that Oodle ought to have taken a more active role in addressing the claim 
against it. Because it did not, C and D were able to take actions that appear to me to 
be some distance from being appropriate and that have made determining suitable 
resolution more difficult. However, there are some basic principles that Ive still been 
able to take into account when assessing whats fair and reasonable.
Losses under the supply arrangements
Under section 20 of the CRA2015, having exercised her short-term right to reject the 
car acquired under a hire-purchase agreement, Miss S is entitled to have the contract 
treated as at an end, and to a refund of the part of the price paid. I accept the 
premise that this refund should not extend to amounts actually paid by C or D, whether these were paid directly or through Miss S or A. But I am satisfied that the 
part of the price paid includes not just the payments to Oodle but the part-exchange 
value of Miss Ss original car, the £1,000 deposit and the £50 document fee.
As far as I am able to determine from the sale documents and payment records, the 
transaction was structured thus:
D originally priced the car at £9,790. Miss S owed £7,359 on existing car finance. D 
settled that finance on her behalf. D gave a value of £4,500 for Miss Ss original car 
leaving £2,859, which was added to the price of the car D was selling. The parties 
agreed a final price of £12,359 for that car, as shown on the hire-purchase 
agreement. Miss S paid £1,000 deposit, giving a balance of £11,359 under the 
finance Oodle provided. She also paid a £50 document fee, which was not included 
within the price on the documents and in my view should be kept separate for the 
purposes of this calculation.
Based on this, Miss S paid D £5,500 in cash and goods at the outset of the 
agreement. Given her starting position where she owed her existing finance provider 
£7,359, that leaves a balance of £1,859 that she would always have had to pay. That 
amount has to be offset against any refund she should receive from Oodle under 
section 20 of the CRA2015.
According to Oodles account statements, the total paid to Oodle (from all sources) 
under the hire-purchase agreement was £13,068.72. The payments made (whether 
directly to Oodle or via Miss S or A) by C or D total £10,622.90. It follows that the 
remaining amount  £2,445.82  represents the sum of payments to Oodle from 
Miss Ss own pocket, rather than the figure of £1,689.66 Oodle suggested.
Purely from the perspective of finance payments, after offsetting the amount Miss S 
was originally due to pay, as a result of entering into the hire purchase agreement 
she is £586.82 worse off. Oodle should refund this amount to Miss S, along with the 
£50 document fee previously mentioned, together with interest.
Ive thought carefully about Oodles suggestion that it should be entitled to make a 
deduction from this refund in recognition of the use Miss S made of the car. Under 
the CRA2015, where a consumer exercises a final right to reject goods such a 
deduction is permitted. However, theres no such provision in relation to a consumer 
exercising their short-term right to reject, as Im satisfied Miss S did (or attempted to 
do) here. Further, the extent to which any use Miss S was able to make of the car 
over the couple of months in which it was in her possession is offset by the problems 
cited in evidence that she experienced in doing so. Taking these factors into account, 
I dont propose to find it would be reasonable to make a deduction in this respect.
Additional loss or damage
The finance costs, however, arent the only losses Miss S and A claim to have 
incurred as a result of being supplied with the faulty car. Instead of being able to use 
the car as intended, on at least one occasion Miss S had to hire an alternative 
vehicle at her own expense. She has provided an invoice for this, indicating a cost of 
approximately £90. And while I dont consider the cost of insuring the alternative car 
D provided to be an additional cost that would be reasonable to award, I dont doubt 
the fact that car appears not to have been road legal and that the tax was cancelled 
and the vehicle clamped led to further costs for day to day travel.Under section 19 (sub-sections 10 and 11) of the CRA2015, Miss S would be entitled 
to claim damages in respect of these additional out of pocket costs. It doesnt 
automatically follow that a court would award them, but based on what Ive seen 
theres a fair chance it would do so. With this in mind, I propose that in addition to the 
refund Ive already calculated, Oodle should pay Miss S £250 as a fair sum in 
recognition of her additional costs arising from the supply of the faulty car.
Distress and/or inconvenience caused to Miss S due to Oodles handling of 
matters
In law, while there are some exceptions the agreement to supply a vehicle doesnt 
generally mean a contract-breaker is liable for things like distress or frustration that 
the other party to the contract might experience due to its actions. But our rules dont 
limit me to making awards that might otherwise be made by a court. Where I consider 
it appropriate to do so, I can require a firm to pay compensation for the impact its 
actions in carrying on a financial activity have had on a complainant.
Here, the financial activity involved supplying the car to Miss S under a hire-purchase 
agreement, and dealing with the attendant responsibilities of doing so. I dont think it 
would be fair to say that Oodle should compensate Miss S for the distress that would 
arise from the fact the car was faulty. But as Ive mentioned above, I do think the way 
Oodle handled the situation once Miss S attempted to raise her claim fell short of 
what I would deem satisfactory.
In my view Oodle placed an inappropriate amount of weight on what C was telling it, 
and insufficient weight on what Miss S said. Oodle ought to have established the true 
condition of the car, and there seems little reason to find that had it done so, it would 
have concluded the car was anything other than unsatisfactory, at a very early stage 
of the process. Oodles approach to the claim was likely to exacerbate the distress 
and worry Miss S was already experiencing. To recognise this impact, I propose that 
Oodle pays Miss S £600. Theres further information on our website about how we 
assess suitable compensation.
I didnt propose that Oodle amend any information it recorded on Miss Ss credit file in 
relation to the hire-purchase agreement, as it appeared to me an accurate reflection of the 
way the account operated and not in any way detrimental to Miss S.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
A replied on behalf of Miss S to say that they were broadly happy with the proposed 
resolution, although they felt the level of distress and inconvenience experienced might have 
warranted a higher award. Oodle didnt offer any further evidence or arguments in response 
to my provisional findings.
I understand A and Miss Ss strength of feeling here. However, its important to draw a 
distinction between the award Ive proposed for the distress and inconvenience arising from 
Oodles actions, and that which theyve experienced as a result of the actions of other parties, such as C and D. I cant fairly expect Oodle to take responsibility for everything that 
happened, and I trust A and Miss S will understand why Ive proposed this award.
Overall, Ive no reason to reach a different conclusion from the one I proposed in my 
provisional decision. For the reasons I set out, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that in order to settle Miss Ss complaint, Oodle Financial Services 
Limited must now take the following steps:
1. pay Miss S £636.82 as a refund of the money she paid towards the hire-purchase 
agreement after deducting the balance she would otherwise have had to pay her 
existing finance provider, and the document fees she paid
2. pay interest on the sum in 1. calculated at 8% simple per year, from 1 February 
2021 (being the date on which Miss S made her final payments to Oodle) until the 
date it pays this settlement. If Oodle deducts tax from this interest, it should provide 
Miss S with an appropriate tax certificate
3. pay Miss S £250 to reflect her alternative travel costs due to the supply of the 
faulty car
4. pay Miss S £600 in recognition of her distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of matters
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman