DRN-2281219
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society is unable to trace two savings accounts 
that he has passbooks for.
What happened
Mr J held two savings account with another business. The accounts used passbooks to 
record the details of transactions.
Mr J recently found passbooks for the two accounts which showed that they had a combined 
balance of £2,100 in October 2005. The business the savings accounts were originally held 
with was taken over by Nationwide several years after these entries in the passbooks. So, 
Mr J contacted Nationwide and asked it to trace the accounts and pay him the balance.
Nationwide explained that it had carried out searches for the accounts but had found no 
record of them in its current or archived data. It said that this indicated the accounts hadnt 
been transferred to Nationwide from the previous business, hadnt been made dormant and 
were likely closed more than six years ago. Nationwide explained that it was common 
practice that accounts could still be used without the passbooks being presented, so even 
though the closure wasnt entered in the books themselves, it still felt it was likely they had 
been closed and the balance returned.
Mr J referred the matter to our service. An investigator looked at whatd happened but 
thought Nationwide had acted reasonably. He said it had carried out relevant searches and 
found no trace of the accounts, so he agreed it was likely they had been previously closed. 
Mr J did not agree. He said that him having the passbooks was in his opinion clear evidence 
the accounts had remained open, particularly as Nationwide could provide no evidence to 
the contrary.
As Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has said that Nationwide has been unable to provide evidence the accounts were 
closed. I understand Mr J would prefer certainty around what happened to the accounts. But 
business dont have to retain information about old accounts indefinitely. It is common 
industry practice that records are usually only kept for around six years. And Nationwide has 
confirmed this is what it does. 
So, if the accounts were closed more than six years ago, there wouldnt necessarily be any 
record remaining now. And likewise, if the accounts were closed before the business they 
were originally opened with was taken over by Nationwide, I wouldnt expect Nationwide to 
hold any record of them.
Where information is incomplete, I need to decide on balance of probabilities what I think is 
most likely to have happened, taking into account the information that is available. Here what 
I need to decide is whether, in the absence of any definitive record of closure, its more likely 
the accounts remained open or were closed some time ago. 
Nationwide has provided evidence it has completed searches of its systems using the 
relevant identifying information Mr J has provided. And has done so in numerous 
combinations. But there is no record of either of the savings accounts  either being open or 
details having been archived. While I appreciate why Mr J would like conclusive evidence, 
Im satisfied that if the accounts had remained open, they wouldve been located by 
Nationwide. 
I appreciate that Mr J has been able to provide passbooks for the two accounts. And these 
do not record the closure of the account. But whilst passbooks are normally used to record 
transactions its quite common that business will allow customers access to their accounts 
without them. As a result, sometimes passbooks dont always contain up to date information 
about transactions. 
Again, I have to decide what I think is most likely, based on the information that is available. 
And having taken everything into account, in the absence of any record of the account 
beyond the details noted in 2005 in the passbooks Mr J has provided, I think its likely the 
accounts were closed, in the absence of the passbooks, over six years ago, probably prior to 
the original business being taken over by Nationwide, and the information has since been 
deleted. And so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, I dont think Nationwide has made any 
errors here, so I dont think it needs to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman