DRN-4056568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale Bank) 
didnt do enough to prevent the loss they suffered when they sent money to a 
Clydesdale Bank customer as the result of a scam.
Whilst the loss comes from a joint account, for ease of reading and as hes done most of the 
correspondence on the complaint, Ill mostly just refer to Mr B where I mean both him and 
Mrs B.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In December 2020 Mr B was sadly the 
victim of a safe account scam. A scammer tricked him into sending seven payments 
totalling around £58,000 from his account with Clydesdale Bank to another customer of the 
same bank. 
Mr B reported the scam to Clydesdale Bank who initially refunded the final five payments 
hed made. Following the involvement of our service on a separate complaint, the second 
payment was also refunded. But this still left Mr B with a loss of around £5,000 which 
represents the first payment he made to the scammer. 
Mr B raised a further complaint with Clydesdale in relation to the recipient account. He thinks 
their actions in relation to that account could have prevented his outstanding loss. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In summary she said she couldnt consider Clydesdale Banks actions when opening the 
recipient account as that fell outside of our jurisdiction. And she didnt think there were other 
failures by Clydesdale Bank in relation to the outstanding loss. 
Mr B disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Mr Bs submissions in support of his complaint refer to Clydesdale Banks actions 
as his own or the sending bank. A complaint about that has already been considered and 
dealt with by one of my Ombudsman colleagues. So that isnt something I can comment on 
here. Ill keep my findings to Clydesdale Banks actions in relation to the recipient account. 
As our Investigator has already explained, our jurisdiction only allows me to consider 
Clydesdale Banks actions (in relation to the recipient account) that took place on or after 
31 January 2019. So, my comments below are made in the context of that timeframe. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
is a voluntary scheme through which victims of scams can sometime receive reimbursement 
from the banks involved. Im satisfied the CRM Code isnt a relevant consideration for this 
complaint as Clydesdale Bank werent a signatory to the scheme at the time of Mr Bs 
payments to the scammer. The CRM Code is a voluntary scheme, and I cant fairly criticise 
Clydesdale Bank for not joining it sooner. 
The only loss remaining is the first payment Mr B made to the recipient account. So, Ive 
considered the activity prior to this payment crediting the account, its arrival and how these 
funds were spent. Im satisfied none of the account activity ought to have stood out to 
Clydesdale Bank as so unusual or suspicious such that they should have done more. So, in 
relation to Mr Bs outstanding loss, I dont think there have been any failings by Clydesdale 
Bank regarding the monitoring of the recipient account, so I cant say they missed an 
opportunity to prevent Mr Bs loss in this way.
Im also satisfied that Clydesdale Bank took appropriate action in relation to the recipient 
account upon receiving notification from Mr B. And the funds from the payment that 
represents Mr Bs outstanding loss were spent very soon after they were received and 
before Clydesdale Bank knew or reasonably could have known they were the proceeds of a 
scam. So, I dont think Clydesdale Bank did anything which negatively impacted the chances 
of a successful recovery. 
Im pleased Mr and Mrs B were able to recover the majority of their funds. And I 
acknowledge they still have a loss of around £5,000. But in the context of this complaint, as I 
dont think Clydesdale Bank did anything that caused or contributed to the outstanding loss, 
or hindered its recovery, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can require them to do 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman