DRN-3772034
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and their decision to 
decline the claim she attempted to make on her policy, after being made aware it had been 
cancelled due to non-payment of the premium.
What happened
On 31 December 2020, Mrs A contacted DGI to set up an Accidental Damage insurance 
policy that covered her electronic device. On this call, Mrs A agreed to pay a one-off 
premium of £69.96 that would provide her with cover for two years. And Mrs A provided her 
payment details on this call for that premium to be taken.
But this payment didnt go through. So, on 4 January 2021, DGI wrote to Mrs A explaining 
this and they asked for her to provide alternative payment details so the premium could be 
taken. This letter also explained that if this information wasnt received within 14 days, they 
would take it that Mrs A no longer wanted to continue with the policy.
Mrs A says she didnt receive this letter and so, she didnt provide new payment details and 
no premium was taken. As DGI didnt receive the premium payment, they cancelled the 
policy in early February 2021. But Mrs A was unaware of this and so, she attempted to make 
a claim on the policy in March 2022. And as the policy had been cancelled, her claim was 
declined. Mrs A was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs A didnt think DGI had done enough to make her aware that her payment hadnt been 
successful, or that her policy had been cancelled. She explained she hadnt received the 
letter, and often failed to receive documentation via post. So, she thought DGI shouldve 
emailed her and that it was unfair of them not to do so. Because of this, she thought DGI 
should allow her to pay the premium and following this, accept the claim she wanted to make 
on the policy.
DGI didnt agree. They thought theyd made a reasonable attempt to notify Mrs A of the 
failed payment by writing to her at the address she provided. And they explained this was in 
line with their process at the time. So, when Mrs A didnt contact them to attempt the 
payment again, they thought they were fair to cancel the policy. And as no policy was in 
place when Mrs A made her claim, they thought they were fair to decline it. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mrs A remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt dispute DGI did send a 
letter to Mrs A. But they didnt think it was fair for DGI to send no further follow up letters or 
e-mails before cancelling the policy. And they thought if DGI had, it was most likely that Mrs 
A wouldve paid the premium to ensure the policy remained in place. So, our investigator 
thought DGI should give Mrs A the chance to pay for the policy, and then reassess the claim 
in line with the terms and conditions of it.
Mrs A accepted this recommendation. But DGI didnt. They explained their business process
was to send one letter before cancellation and that they had no obligation to send any further
communication. And they thought Mrs A had a responsibility to ensure the payment had
been taken, even if she had multiple insurance policies with different payments. So, they 
didnt agree that theyd acted unfairly and they wanted the complaint to be reconsidered.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2022, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention to not 
uphold the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs A. I dont dispute it was
Mrs As intention to pay for the policy. Nor do I dispute Mrs As testimony that she thought
she had. So, when Mrs A came to make a claim on the policy and was made aware it had
been cancelled, I can understand the shock and upset she wouldve felt. I can also
appreciate why this would be made worse by the financial implications of this, as Mrs A was 
unable to claim for the damage to her electronic device.
But for me to say DGI should do something more, such as allow Mrs A to pay to reinstate the
policy, Id first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be
satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs A intended to
take out. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this
situation, I dont think thats the case.
I recognise its not disputed that the payment for the policy didnt go through. So, I dont
intend to discuss this further. As this is agreed, Ive considered the terms and conditions of
the policy to understand the actions DGI were able to take in this situation.
The terms explain that there are several reasons why DGI can cancel the policy themselves.
And these reasons include where you fail to pay for the policy. So, as Mrs A failed to pay
for the policy, I think DGI were able to cancel it. But Id expect them to ensure they followed
their usual business process, and any conditions set out in the terms, when processing this
cancellation.
The terms and conditions explain that, where DGI have a valid reason for cancelling the
policy, they will do so by giving you at least 7 days written notice. I can see DGI wrote to
Mrs A on 4 January 2021, explaining they needed alternative payment details within 14 
days. And if this wasnt received, they would assume Mrs A would no longer require the 
policy.
I think this letter was a fair and reasonable notice of cancellation. And I can see this letter
was sent to Mrs A a month before the policy was eventually cancelled, in early February
2021. So, I think DGI gave Mrs A the 7 days written notice and so, I think they acted in line
with the terms and conditions of the policy when cancelling it.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether it was fair for DGI to do so. I
recognise neither Mrs A, nor our investigator, thought it was. Mrs A feels as though she
shouldve received an email instead, as she encounters difficulty receiving post.
But DGI have confirmed at the time, it was their business process to sent documentation
such as this letter by post. And its not our services role to comment on a business process
or punish a business for this commercial decision. What I can see is that the letter was sent
to Mrs A through DGIs system, to the address Mrs A provided. And on the initial sales call,Ive heard Mrs A consenting to communication by both post and e-mail. Crucially, there was 
no mention of the difficulty she experiences receiving post at that time.
So, I dont think DGI acted unfairly when communicating with Mrs A by post. Nor do I think
DGI had any awareness of the fact Mrs A may not receive this letter and so, should
communicate with Mrs A in another way. And because of this, I dont think I can say they
acted unfairly here.
I recognise our investigator suggested DGI shouldve sent further letters to Mrs A, which Mrs
A agrees with. But I dont think this is the case. DGI do not have an obligation to send more
than one chaser letter for payment. Nor are they obliged to send another letter explaining the
policy had been cancelled. I think the letter they did send clearly explained that, if payment
wasnt made, theyd assume the policy was no longer required. And I think this makes it
reasonably clear the policy would no longer be in place at this point. So, while I appreciate
why sending additional correspondence may have helped in this situation, I dont think it
means DGI acted unfairly by not doing so.
I also think its important to note that Mrs A was made reasonably aware on the sales call of
the premium price, and the fact it was a one-off payment. Ive listened to the call and DGI
also make it reasonably clear that payment should be taken within the next 14 working days,
after Mrs A had asked to clarify the cost. So, I think Mrs A was reasonably aware of the
amount, and when it was due to leave her bank account. And I think Mrs A had a
responsibility to ensure the payments she agreed to make had indeed been made. I dont
think it was solely DGIs responsibility to ensure Mrs A paid the policy premium, as it was
Mrs A who wanted the policy and the cover it provided.
So, while I do appreciate the upset this matter has caused Mrs A, I dont think I can say DGI
have done something wrong here. And because of this, its my intention to decide that DGI 
dont need to do anything further.
Responses
DGI responded to my provisional decision accepting its contents and explaining they had no 
further comments to add. But Mrs A responded with additional comments she wished to be 
considered.
Mrs A explained shed been a customer of DGIs for several years and in that time, a 
payment had never been declined. And Mrs A explained on the sales call with DGI it was 
confirmed that the payment had gone through and so, she thought shed acted fairly when 
assuming it had.
Finally, Mrs A explained following this call she had received the policy documents. And she 
reiterated her point that she received no further documentation to suggest these documents 
were no longer valid due to the policy cancellation. So, she maintained her belief DGI had 
acted unfairly and wanted me to consider my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial decision. While I appreciate Mrs A has 
been a customer of DGI for a significant period of time and during that time, there were no 
issues with payment, I dont think this means Mrs A had no responsibility to ensure the 
payment for this specific policy had been taken. This is because it was Mrs A purchasing the policy and the cover it provided. So, I think the onus was on Mrs A to ensure she paid for this 
cover.
And Ive listened to the sales call again, on Mrs As request. And in this call, DGI advised 
Mrs A that the payment should be debited from her account within the next 14 days. So, I 
dont think DGI did say the payment had gone through as at that time, the money still hadnt 
left Mrs As account. I think DGI made it reasonably clear to Mrs A that the payment would 
be taken at a later date and so, I think Mrs A had some responsibility to ensure it had been 
taken within that time period.
And finally, Ive already commented on the actions DGI took to notify Mrs A that the payment 
hadnt gone through in my provisional decision. As I explained, Im satisfied DGI sent Mrs A 
a letter explaining she needed to contact them to attempt payment again. And that if she 
didnt, they would assume she no longer wanted the policy. While Mrs A disputes receiving 
this letter, Im satisfied DGI sent it to the correct address Mrs A provided and so, I dont think 
any issue with the postal service is DGIs fault or responsibility. Nor do I think DGI had an 
obligation to write to Mrs A again or send her a document to confirm the previous documents 
she received were invalid. This is because I think DGI were fair to assume Mrs A received 
their letter and so, were fair to assume Mrs A wouldve known the policy was no longer in 
force.
So, because of the above and the points made in my provisional decision, I think DGI have 
acted fairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman