DRN-3429434
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited restricted his current account and then decided to 
close it following receipt of a payment. 
What happened
Mr O says £2,244.99 was paid into his account in error by a company he had been dealing 
with. Starling Bank contacted Mr O and said their systems had brought his account to their 
attention, so his account had been temporarily restricted while they looked into this. Mr O felt 
the review was taking too long and he was being inconvenienced by not having access to his 
current account, so he complained. Starling Bank responded and explained theyre required 
to monitor accounts and transactions and this is also in line with their terms and conditions. 
They explained, due to the varied nature of each case, theyre unable to provide a timescale 
for the conclusion of their review. They apologised for any trouble and upset caused but they 
were working to conclude their review as quickly as possible. Starling Bank then wrote to   
Mr O confirming theyd refunded the £2,244.99 to the sending bank and also gave him 14 
days notice to close his account.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. He thought Starling Bank had acted in line with 
their terms and conditions in closing Mr Os account. Mr O disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Os current account. Under a section 
headed Restricting and closing your account, it says , We may restrict (in whole or in part), 
suspend your use of or close any or all of your Accounts immediately, at any time, and 
terminate our Agreement with you in respect of any or all of your Accounts without notifying 
you at all if any of the following things happen Theres then a list of scenarios which allow 
Starling Bank to close an account immediately. The terms and conditions also say, If we 
need to restrict your Account for any reason, we will not be able to confirm how long such 
restrictions may be in place. 
I understand it was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr O while his account was restricted, 
but banks have ongoing legal and regulatory obligations when providing services to 
customers. In this case, Starling Bank were carrying out a review so it was important the 
restriction remained in place while this was concluded. I acknowledge this led to Mr O 
chasing for an update as he had bills that were due to be paid. But, the terms and conditions 
do say Starling Bank arent able to say how long the restrictions may be in place. Starling 
Bank say, in their complaint response, that some reviews can take longer than others, and I 
dont think this is unreasonable. Starling Bank started their review and placed the restriction 
on 21 October, and then concluded their review around two weeks later  and I dont think 
this timeframe was unreasonable. 
After concluding their review, Starling Bank wrote to Mr O to say, Information has come to 
light which is of concern to Starling Bank, as such we are closing your account. I can see  
Mr O points out the inconvenience this has caused him in finding an alternative service 
provider. I do acknowledge this but the terms and conditions do allow Starling Bank to close 
an account so I cant say theyve acted unfairly  particularly so in this case as they have 
given 14 days notice rather than closing the account immediately. 
I acknowledge it will be frustrating for Mr O to not know the reason for the closure of his 
account but theres no provision within the terms and conditions which requires Starling 
Bank to give a reason. In summary, while I understand the impact this had on Mr O, I cant 
say Starling Bank have acted unreasonably here. Theyve taken steps in line with the terms 
and conditions and also informed Mr O about the next steps he needs to take if he requires 
banking services from an alternative provider. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman