DRN-4404116
The complaint
Ms M and Mrs P, the surviving trustees of two investment bonds, complain that the proceeds
of those bonds remained uninvested for several years following the death of the settlor and
the life assured, the late Mr M. They say this has resulted in a financial loss due to lost
investment growth on these monies.
Ms M and Mrs P are also two of the executors of the estate of the late Mr M.
They complain that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to inform them
about the existence of the investment bonds and didnt inform them that those bonds had
matured and remained uninvested.
What happened
In March 2015 two investment bonds (which I will refer to as Bond A and Bond B) were
placed in trust and Ms M and Mrs P were made trustees. The late Mr M was the settlor and a
trustee. Ms M and Mrs P were each sole beneficiaries of one of those two bonds.
In August 2017 Mr M sadly passed away. Mrs P, Ms M and a solicitor acting for the estate of
Mr M, were the executors of his will.
Shortly after, the solicitors firm wrote to SJP indicating that it was acting for the estate of
Mr M. It asked about two investment bonds (not Bond A and Bond B) , for confirmation of
any other policies in the deceaseds name and for appropriate claim forms to be sent for
completion by the executors.
On 4 September 2017 SJP wrote to the solicitor acting for the estate and provided details of
all assets held by the late Mr M. That letter also referred to four additional investments held
by the late Mr M. SJP said that the solicitors would need to provide a signed letter of
authority from the surviving trustees of those investments before it released any further
information.
On 11 September 2017 SJP wrote to the solicitors firm acting for the estate and enclosed a
My documents booklet which detailed the late Mr Ms assets, including the two investment
bonds (Bond A and Bond B) placed in trust in 2015.
On 12 September 2017 the solicitors emailed SJP and asked whether the financial adviser
would be contacting Ms M and Mrs P directly to complete the attached bond papers.
On 19 September 2017 the solicitors firm emailed SJP again and asked whether the bond
papers had been sent to Ms M and Mrs P for completion. It also noted that it had reviewed
the contents of the My Documents booklet. The solicitors firm then asked whether the
values provided for the investment bonds placed in trust in March 2015, were those at the
time of transfer and whether the values were to be classed as gifts for IHT purposes.
On 21 September 2017 SJP wrote to Mrs P, as first trustee of the investment bonds (Bond A
and Bond B), providing certificates of a chargeable event in connection with the claim on the
bonds.
On 27 September 2017 SJP responded to the email from the solicitors firm and confirmed
those were the values for Bond A and Bond B at the date of trust and were relevant for
inheritance tax (IHT) purposes as the bonds had been in trust for two years.
SJP also said in that email that claim forms would be required if Ms M and Mrs P wished to
surrender the bonds or they could complete deeds of assignments to move the plans into
their sole names. It asked whether the financial adviser should discuss this with them prior to
the bonds being surrendered and enclosed the relevant documentation in respect of those
bonds.
The solicitors firm responded on the same day and queried what had been said about
investment Bond A and Bond B. It confirmed that the SJP financial adviser should discuss
what should happen to the investment bonds with Ms M and Mrs P and asked that SJP let
the firm know the outcome of those discussions. It also asked about the Investment Bond
Gift Plans in place for Ms M and Mrs P and whether those would be paid directly to them.
SJP responded and said that as the bonds had been in trust for less than three years it
thought the full inheritance tax would be payable. It also said that it had asked the financial
adviser to contact Ms M and Mrs P, and that they would discuss the bonds placed in trust
and the gift plans.
On 20 December 2017 the financial adviser from SJP met with the solicitor who was also
one of the executors of the estate.
On the same day SJP emailed Ms M and Mrs P and said that it had prepared the deed of
assignments for various bonds to be transferred into the names and suggested scheduling a
brief meeting to go over this.
Further emails were then sent trying to finalise a meeting date.
On 9 February 2018 a meeting took place between SJP and Ms M and Mrs P. The brief
notes indicate no further action could take place until the confirmation of executors had been
obtained.
On 1 March 2018 the solicitors firm emailed SJP and asked for valuations of bonds using
the investment number of the gift plan investments set up in 2013 but it described them as
being transferred in March 2015, the date Bond A and Bond B were placed in trust.
On 1 March 2018 SJP responded and asked whether the solicitors firm required the
valuation as at that date.
The solicitors firm emailed in response on the same day and said it required the valuations
as at the date of transfer.
On 6 March 2018 SJP emailed the solicitors form and said it was unsure about the date of
transfer provided, as those plans had still not been assigned. It also said the bonds were
still live and sitting in the names of the Trustees. SJP said there had been a meeting with
Ms M and Mrs P and the assignment of the bonds was to be discussed again once
confirmation had been granted. SJP also noted that the late Mr M had assigned other plans
into Ms M and Mrs Ps names.On 8 March 2018 the solicitors firm emailed SJP and said it required the date the
investment bonds were placed in trust and the value at that time. It noted it had mistakenly
said transferred in its previous email.
On 13 March 2018 SJP emailed the solicitors firm. It gave the information for the value of
the investments that were set up in 2013 and had the corresponding investment numbers
referred to in the request of 1 March. It gave the value at the point of set up which was the
same time the trust had been set up.
SJP also gave values for Bond A and Bond B quoting their investment numbers.
On 25 May 2018 the confirmation of the executors of the estate was issued by the court.
On 21 June 2018 a different investment (Unit Trust) was transferred into the names of the
executors.
In April 2019 the administrative centre for SJP wrote to the SJP financial adviser chasing up
the completed claim forms for Bond A and Bond B.
In July 2019 the bond numbers for Bond A and Bond B were changed as a result of a new
administrative system implemented by SJP.
On 4 March 2020 the SJP Administrative Centre wrote to the financial adviser again asking
for completed claim forms for Bond A and Bond B.
On 25 August 2020 SJP sent an email to the solicitors firm indicating that Bond A and
Bond B were disinvested on the date of death of the life assured, Mr M, and they needed to
be paid out.
On 9 November 2020 and 15 November 2020 further letters were sent by SJP to the
solicitors firm chasing up the claim forms for Bond A and Bond B.
In May 2021 SJPs administrative system flagged up that Bond A and Bond B still hadnt
been encashed.
In June 2021 a meeting took place between SJP, Ms M and Mrs P where Bond A and
Bond B were discussed.
In October 2021 Ms M and Mrs P complained to SJP. They said that they were unhappy with
the administration of the late Mr Ms holdings following his death. Ms M and Mrs P said they
werent made aware of the existence of two investment bonds, which were in their names,
for four years. They felt that this had caused them lost growth opportunities which they said 
they should be compensated for.
Ms M and Mrs P also said they believed that SJP had benefited from the delay and their
confidence and trust in SJP had been undermined.
In around November 2021, ownership of other different investments was transferred to Ms M
and Mrs P.
In January 2022 a claim form was submitted by Ms M and Mrs P and the proceeds of
Bond A and Bond B were paid to them.SJP didnt uphold their complaint. It responded in January 2022 and said the claim forms for
Bond A and Bond B and a full breakdown of the late Mr Ms holdings had been provided to 
the solicitors firm acting for the estate, in September 2017. It also said further information 
about the bonds was emailed to the solicitors firm in September 2017 and March 2018.
SJP said full details of Bond A and Bond B together with the relevant Chargeable Gain
Certificates were provided to Mrs P in September 2017. It also noted the trust documentation
relating to the two bonds had been signed by both Ms M and Mrs P in 2015.
SJP also said in its response letter, that it believed Mr Ms financial adviser had arranged to
have the two bonds assigned to Ms M and Mrs P once confirmation was granted in 2019. It
also understood the financial adviser had assisted in the completion of the relevant
paperwork required in order to reduce costs for Ms M and Mrs P.
Ms M and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said it should be upheld in part. She noted
that trust deeds confirmed that Bond A and Bond B had been placed in trust in 2015 and that
the My documents booklet contained details of those bonds. She was satisfied that
information about the bonds and the booklet had been provided to the solicitors acting for
the estate in September 2017.
The investigator said that SJP had sent a chaser in March 2020 from one of its divisions to
the SJP financial adviser. She thought that SJP was internally trying to progress matters to
receive the completed claim forms for the bonds. So she felt that SJP had acted to try to
bring matters to a close with the estate.
However, the investigator said that SJP had acknowledged that one part of the business had 
lost track of the investments at one stage and they had been discovered in May 2021. She 
said she did not feel it was fair for it to assume the bonds had been encashed after 
November 2020. So the investigator concluded that SJP was responsible for the monies 
being left between November 2020 and May 2021 and that compensation was due for that 
period.
The investigator said SJP should pay interest on the maturity proceeds for that period at
eight percent simple per year minus the gratuitous interest it had already paid. She also said
it should pay Ms M and Mrs P £150 each for the distress and inconvenience caused.
SJP didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It didnt agree that it was responsible for
following up on the claim after November 2020. SJP said it had already contacted the
solicitors firm acting for the estate in August 2020 explaining what was required to claim the
proceeds and it had followed this up in November 2020.
SJP said as it had explained what was required, that it was the responsibility of the trustees
and the solicitors firm to ensure the completed claim forms were returned.
Ms M and Mrs P didnt agree with all of the investigators conclusions. They acknowledged
and agreed with the investigator and what she had said about the period she had identified 
but they felt that SJP was responsible for the whole four-year period.
Ms M and Mrs P said SJP should have communicated directly with them rather than the
solicitors firm and they also noted that there had been no communication from SJP between
March 2018 and August 2020. Ms M and Mrs P noted the comments by the financial adviserwhere he had indicated once the bonds were in administration, he no longer had sight of
them, and they said there been a serious communication and system failure.
Ms M and Mrs P reiterated that if they had known about the bonds, they wouldnt have
remained unclaimed for four years.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I upheld the complaint in part but reached a different 
conclusion on the period of delay. I felt that SJP was responsible for half of any loss arising 
from a period of delay of approximately twelve months.  
I concluded that had it not been for that delay Ms M and Mrs P would have invested the 
monies earlier and I said I thought on balance that this would have been at low risk. I set out 
a calculation for compensation based on the return of an appropriate benchmark over the 
relevant period, but said the payment of interest that SJP had already made should be 
deducted. 
I also concluded that SJP should pay Ms M and Mrs P £150 each for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay. 
An extract from that decision is reproduced later in this decision. 
SJP responded to my provisional decision. It said it thought there had been a 
misinterpretation with regards to whether the bonds had still been available to view. SJP said 
while the bonds had disappeared from the financial advisers system, which was why he was 
unaware they hadnt been claimed, they were still present on the SJP Administration 
Centres system. 
SJP accepted the period of delay I had identified. It said it had carried out the compensation 
calculation using the method and benchmark set out in my provisional decision and it had 
resulted in a no loss outcome, once the interest already paid to Ms M and Mrs P had been 
deducted. 
Ms M and Mrs P responded to my provisional decision and said they didnt agree with my 
assessment in relation to the level of risk they would have taken in investing the proceeds of 
the bonds. 
Ms M and Mrs P said they would have been willing and able to take a medium level of risk 
and pointed out their portfolios had been invested with SJP at a medium level of risk. 
Ms M and Mrs P provided supporting documentation by way of recommendation reports 
issued by SJP where their attitude to risk was assessed as medium risk and they were 
recommended investments accordingly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the same view as set out in my provisional decision, save for the 
issue of how compensation should be calculated with reference to the level of risk Ms M and 
Mrs P were willing to take. I note the point raised by SJP that the investment bonds were still visible to its Administrative 
Centre, and I am satisfied that is the case because the Administrative Centre sent 
correspondence to the financial adviser referring to the bonds. However, I dont think that 
changes the outcome of the complaint for the reasons I have outlined in my provisional 
decision, namely that reminder correspondence wasnt sent to Ms M and Mrs P or the 
solicitors firm acting for the estate over a particular period.    
An extract from my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2015 Ms M and Mrs P were made trustees of two investment bonds, Bond A and Bond B.
They were also each the beneficiary of one of those bonds.
In 2017 the late Mr M sadly passed away. Because he was the life assured on those two
bonds, his death meant that they matured and wouldnt remain invested. This was set out in
the product documentation.
There were also likely to be tax consequences for the estate of the late Mr M because the
bonds had only been placed in trust two years before his death.
As the bonds had matured, the next step would be for the surviving trustees, Mrs P and
Ms M to complete the claim forms and claim the proceeds which they would then be duty
bound to pay out to the beneficiaries of the bonds, who were also Ms M and Mrs P.
Knowledge of the existence of the bonds
Ms M and Mrs P have said they had no knowledge of the existence of Bond A and Bond B,
until SJP referred to them in a meeting in June 2021.
The two investment bonds in question were placed in trust in 2015. The trust document used
to create the trust was signed by the trustees, Ms M and Mrs P. So, I think it is reasonable to
conclude that they would have been aware of the existence of those bonds in 2015.
Then after Mr M passed away, SJP wrote to the solicitors acting for the estate and informed
them that there were four additional investments but that it needed a signed letter of
authority from the surviving trustees to provide further information. It asked the solicitors firm
to provide this.
Subsequently, SJP provided the solicitors acting for the estate with information about all of
Mr Ms investments in a booklet entitled My documents. It gave the investment bond
numbers and values for Bond A and Bond B, and the date they were placed in trust.
I am also satisfied on balance that SJP sent claims forms for Bond A and Bond B to the
solicitors firm at the same time because the solicitors form subsequently referred to them.
Then in September 2017 (about six weeks after Mr M had passed away) Mrs P, the first
trustee listed on the bonds was sent a chargeable gain certificate, described as being inconnection with the claim on these bonds, by SJP. The covering letter said:
We have been corresponding with our St. Jamess Place Partner, who advised us that Mr M
(redacted) has sadly passed away. Please accept our sympathies.
We are writing to you as first named Trustee.
We now enclose the Certificates of chargeable event in connection with the claim on
these Bonds.
So, I think at the outset it was made reasonably clear to the solicitors acting for the estate
that there were two investment bonds in trust which were ready to be claimed. While I think
it would have made sense for SJP to send the claim forms for Bond A and Bond B directly to
the trustees Ms M and Mrs P, I note that the firm acting for the estate had contacted SJP in
August 2017 and asked about the policies held by the late Mr M. As Ms M and Mrs P were
close family members of Mr M and trustees of the bonds, I dont think it was unreasonable
for SJP to have assumed that the claim form information would be shared with them. And it 
appears from the subsequent emails between the solicitors firm and SJP, that the firm and
Ms M and Mrs P were in contact, which isnt surprising given Ms M and Mrs P were 
executors of the estate and the solicitors firm was acting on behalf of the estate.
In any event, I consider that Ms M and Mrs P wouldve been aware of being made trustees
of Bond A and Bond B in 2015. So, when a chargeable certificate was sent to one of them in
connection with the claim on these bonds, that would have put them on notice that there
was a potential claim for Bond A and Bond B, or at least indicated that there was an issue
with these bonds, which needed to be explored further.
I appreciate that this would have been a very difficult time for them both, but I consider they
were given information which indicated that the proceeds of Bond A and Bond B could be
claimed.
Correspondence in 2017 and March 2018
I think some of the correspondence between SJP and the solicitors firm acting for the estate
discussing the investments formerly held by the late Mr M, wasnt as clear as it could have
been.
It appears there were four investment bond plans which had been placed in trust that were
all referred to in the My documents booklet. And as I understand it, two of those, the gift
plans set up in 2013, were to be assigned to Ms M and Mrs P. However, Bond A and
Bond B, that are the subject of this complaint, had matured on the death of the remaining life
assured. So the next step was to pay out the proceeds to the trustees Ms M and Mrs P, who
would then distribute them to the beneficiary of each bond.
There was an exchange of correspondence in 2017 when I am satisfied it was made clear by
SJP that Bond A and Bond B could be surrendered and claim forms were also sent to the
solicitors firm. However, there was also some discussion by SJP in emails in September
2017 and March 2018, about assigning bonds into their sole names and I think SJP gave the
impression that it was talking about Bond A and Bond B.
I can see there was also some potential for confusion because in March 2018 the solicitors
firm asked about the other two investment plans set up in 2013 using the relevant numbersfor those plans but referred to the date Bond A and Bond B were placed in trust in 2015.
Then SJP, in its later response, gave information about the plans set up in 2013 but also
provided values for Bond A and Bond B.
I think SJP couldve been clearer in its email correspondence with the solicitors firm at times
but ultimately, I dont think that changed matters in a material way because it was still made
clear that the proceeds of Bond A and Bond B could be claimed. In addition, given the
solicitors firm had embarked upon making enquiries, seemingly about Bond A and Bond B, if
matters were unclear, it couldve asked for further clarification to ensure it understood the
position regarding those bonds.
I also take into account SJP had provided information at the outset which gave the
investment numbers for both sets of investments and the dates when they had been placed
in trust.
In any event, I think that if Ms M and Mrs P were unsure about which investments the
chargeable certificates they had received related to, they shouldve contacted SJP to clarify
the position.
Contact between SJP admin centre and financial adviser in April 2019
In April 2019 the SJP administrative centre sent a reminder letter to the late Mr Ms financial
adviser indicating that the claims forms needed to be completed for Bond A and Bond B.
That letter is addressed to the financial adviser and there is no indication on the
correspondence that it was also sent to the trustees of Bond A or Bond B, or to the solicitors
firm acting for the estate. In addition, I have not been provided with any correspondence sent
to the trustees or the solicitors firm at that time. Instead, the first contact from SJP reminding
the solicitors firm about Bond A and Bond B appears to have been in August 2020.
I think there was a lost opportunity here on SJPs part because there was internal
correspondence sent from the SJP administrative centre chasing the claim forms for Bond A
and Bond B, but the content of that correspondence wasnt passed on to Ms M and Mrs P
(or the solicitor acting for the estate). I dont think it would have been too onerous for SJP to
have sent a reminder letter during this period, particularly given the amount of money
involved.
By this time, it was approaching two years since Bond A and Bond B had matured and as I
have said, a not insignificant amount of money was involved. SJP was aware that the
maturity proceeds were outstanding as can be seen from the internal reminder letter sent to
the late Mr Ms financial adviser. However, it appears that due to an error in its administrative
processes that reminder wasnt sent out externally. In the circumstances I think it wouldve
been reasonable to expect SJP to contact the trustees of the bonds or the solicitors firm
acting for the estate, at the two-year point to remind them that the proceeds of those bonds
were available and needed to be claimed.
However, there was then nothing further from SJP until August 2020.
Having said that, I also think the trustees couldve been more proactive in finding out what
was happening with Bond A and Bond B, as they were on notice of a claim potentially
triggering a charging event. And I think if they had done so, then the claim form would have
been dealt with earlier.
So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold SJP responsible for any financial loss
resulting from the whole period from August 2019 ( two years after maturity) to August 2020.As I have said, I consider that Ms M and Mrs P were on notice of a potential claim for these
investment bonds, but I also dont think in the circumstances that it would have been
onerous for SJP to send a reminder letter during this period. So, overall I think SJP should
be responsible for half of any financial loss caused as a result of this period of delay,
between August 2019 ( two years after the maturity) and August 2020 (when it contacted the
solicitors firm acting for the estate). I then have to consider how that delay impacted Mrs P
and Ms M.
The monies from Bond A and Bond B were paid out to Ms M and Mrs P in January 2022. So,
I think broadly it is reasonable to conclude that if SJP had contacted them earlier, via the
solicitors firm or directly, that those monies would have been available for them to invest 12
months earlier, in January 2021, and that any lost growth during the following 12-month
period should then be halved to reflect SJPs responsibility.
I have set out how this should be calculated later in this provisional decision.
August 2020 to May 2021
As I have said, SJP sent a reminder to the solicitors firm acting for the estate in August
2020. I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for it to expect that information
to be forwarded to the trustees of Bond A and Bond B as they were also the executors of the
estate, particularly as there was a background of correspondence between SJP and the
solicitors firm in respect of these and other investments.
Further reminders were then sent in November 2020, so I wouldnt have expected SJP to
send more frequent reminders then it did.
I note that the investigator has identified a period of time between November 2020 and May
2021 when SJP didnt chase up the claim on Bond A and Bond B. It appears this was, at
least in part, as a result of an administrative issue where SJP wasnt aware during that
period that the bond proceeds still hadnt been claimed.
I agree with the investigator that it would be reasonable to expect SJP to have an accurate
record of which investments were still in place at any one time. However, I have to consider
whether this had any real impact on the outcome, and I dont think, it is more likely than not,
that it did.
I dont think it would be reasonable, for instance, to have expected SJP to have sent a letter
every month chasing up the claim for several years after the bonds had matured. Even if
SJP hadnt lost track of those investments, then having already sent reminders in August
2020 and November 2020, I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable for it to have waited
for a further six months or thereabouts, before sending another reminder or contacting the
trustees or solicitors firm.
Putting things right
Ms M and Mrs P are seeking compensation for the lost investment growth on their bonds
due to the proceeds remaining disinvested. However, it is not entirely clear where the
maturity proceeds from Bond A and Bond B would otherwise have been invested if they had
been claimed earlier.
Given Ms M and Mrs P received these lump sums unexpectedly and in the absence of anyfurther explanation, I consider it more likely not that these sums would have been otherwise
invested at low risk. However, I leave it open to the parties to respond to my provisional
decision with any representations they may have on that point.
On that basis, I am currently minded to award compensation for the 12-month period I have
identified (divided by 2) on the basis of:
A = Investment growth on the proceeds of Bond A and Bond B (without including any
gratuitous interest already paid by SJP) using a benchmark for half the investment of the
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and for the other half the average
rate from fixed rate bonds over the specified 12-month period.
B = A divided by 2 (as SJP is responsible for half the financial loss for the period)
C = gratuitous interest already paid to Ms M and Mrs P
D = B  C
E = Interest of 8 percent simple per year on D from the end date to the date of settlement.
So SJP should pay Ms M and Mrs P D + E 
I have carefully considered the comments and evidence provided by Ms M and Mrs P in 
response to my provisional decision. I think it is reasonable to conclude that they would have 
invested the proceeds of these bonds in a similar way to their existing portfolios. I also note 
that those portfolios had been set up with the assistance of advice and recommendations 
from SJP and following an assessment of their attitude to risk by SJP. 
So taking into account their circumstances and objectives, I think they would have been 
willing to accept some investment risk and accordingly I consider the appropriate benchmark 
for the calculation of compensation is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
index.  
 
Putting things right
Ms M and Mrs P are seeking compensation for the lost investment growth on their bonds
due to the proceeds remaining disinvested.
SJP should pay any compensation resulting from the 12-month period I have identified 
(divided by 2) on the basis of:
A = Investment growth on the proceeds of Bond A and Bond B (without including any
gratuitous interest already paid by SJP) using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index benchmark over the specified 12-month period.
B = A divided by 2 (as SJP is responsible for half of the financial loss for the period)
C = gratuitous interest already paid to Ms M and Mrs P
D = B  C
E = Interest of 8 percent simple per year on D from the end date to the date of settlement.
So SJP should pay Ms M and Mrs P D + E Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms M and Mrs P wanted Capital growth and were willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given the Ms M and Mrs Ps circumstances and risk attitude.
I note that there was a small difference in value between the proceeds of the two investment 
bonds. However as Ms M and Mrs P are both trustees of the bonds, they are able to 
distribute any compensation that may be payable to the beneficiaries and indeed they are 
each a beneficiary of one of those bonds.  
SJP should also pay Ms M and Mrs P £150 each for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them by not being sent a reminder during the period I have identified. I am 
satisfied that they were upset when they were made aware the bonds remained disinvested 
and felt they had lost a return on those bonds as a result.   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. My decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management 
Plc should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should provide details of its calculation to Ms M 
and Mrs P in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman