DRN-3776681
The complaint
Mr H complains that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly increased the limit on his credit 
account such that he couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Mr H applied for and was provided with a credit account by Studio in December 2020. The 
initial limit was £300. This was decreased to £100 in February 2021 following a late payment 
charge. The limit was then increased to £600 in May 2021 and then to £850 in July 2021. 
Mr H subsequently got into difficulties over the payments, and complained to Studio in 
February 2022. At that time he disclosed that he had mental health and personal family 
problems which made it difficult for him to manage his finances, He doesnt dispute that the 
initial credit limit was affordable based on his declared income at the time.
Studio said that it carried out detailed checks of Mr Hs credit history and used ONS (Office 
for National Statistics) data to estimate his disposable monthly income. It also considered 
the data in his application. The account was provided on the basis that Mr H was eligible for 
credit of up to £1,600, although no further increases were made after July 2021.It monitored 
his credit score and provided the increases when Mr H was eligible. He opted in for 
automatic increases when opening the account but could always opt not to receive them 
when he was notified in his monthly statement. It wasnt aware of Mr Hs mental health 
problems until he told it in February 2022, and had now noted him as vulnerable. It has 
asked him to complete an income and expenditure check and for details of his mental health 
problems if he wanted it to consider writing of any off the balance owing.
Mr H said that Studio should have carried out proper checks, if it had it would have seen that 
he was subject to an IVA (Individual Voluntary Arrangement) and had been since October 
2018. He didnt feel it appropriate to reveal any of his personal health details.
Studio said this information wasnt seen on the credit report but noted that the IVA was 
registered against a former address, so it wouldnt have appeared on the credit report. The 
account is currently on hold, with no interest accruing.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our investigator said that at the time of the 
second credit limit increase the checks Studio carried out werent proportionate. However as 
Mr H wasnt able to provide any information about his financial circumstances at the time of 
the increases she was unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr H disputed this and said that it wasnt up to him to prove the credit was unaffordable. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Studio complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Studio ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
First of all I think the first time Studio knew of Mr Hs personal health issues was when he 
contacted it in February 2022. Ive referred above to the checks carried out which needed to 
be reasonable and proportionate. There are no prescribed checks that a business must carry 
out but it needs to be able to assess that the applicant will be able to pay the credit 
advanced by at least the minimum monthly payment which I understand in this case was 6% 
of the balance. It cant know unless it is told whether the applicant is suffering from any 
illness which might affect their ability to run the account.
Here Studio carried out a credit check when Mr H applied for the account. It assessed that 
on an annual income of £25,000 he was able to afford the initial credit limit and provisionally 
that he could be advanced credit of up to £1,600. The initial limit was £300 - this would have 
meant a payment of up to £18 a month. Mr H doesnt dispute that.
Ive noted that the limit was dropped to £100 in February 2021 due to a late payment charge, 
then increased in May 2021 to £600. To assess whether to apply the credit limit increases 
Studio monitored the account and checked Mr Hs credit score with a credit reference 
agency. It also assessed that the account was now in good order. I think bearing in mind the 
amount of credit and the monthly payment which would have been £36 if the maximum 
amount of credit was used, the checks carried out were proportionate and the decision to 
increase the limit was reasonable. At that stage his account balance was less than half the 
limit.
I understand that the same checks were carried out for the limit increase in July 2021. Ive 
considered whether Studio should have carried out further checks. The account was still 
being run properly, and Mr Hs credit score was sufficient to be able to apply the increase. At 
that stage he was still using less than half the £600 limit, and it didnt exceed £364 until 
November 2021. I cant see anything that would have alerted Studio to carry out further 
checks at that stage. 
With regard to the credit checks being applied automatically, Studio is entitled to do this, as 
long as it notified Mr H. Having seen the statements sent to him at the time of the relevant 
increases Im satisfied that it notified Mr H and he was given the opportunity to not accept 
the increase.
I understand that Mr H was subject to an IVA, which had started in October 2018. This was 
registered to a former address, so didnt appear in the credit check Studio caried out. It 
wouldnt have provided the credit if it had known about this. Unfortunately credit checks dont 
always show all the information needed, especially if a former address is not known about. 
Mr H would have known about his IVA and it would be reasonable to expect him to tell Studio about it. It wouldnt necessarily have been a bar to obtaining further credit, that 
depends on the terms of the IVA. But on the evidence Ive seen, Studio wouldnt have known 
about the IVA.
Our investigator asked Mr H to provide copies of his bank statements. Mr H says these are 
on a former account that is now closed. While I dont think that would be a bar to obtaining 
them, he nevertheless feels it isnt for him to show that the loan was affordable. I agree, but 
on the evidence produced by Studio I think it was justified in assessing that the loan was 
affordable. If Mr H disputes this then it is up to him to show this 
I understand that Mr H is anxious that this matter is still outstanding and that Studio has 
placed markers on his credit record. I see the account was over the limit from December 
2021 to January 2022. It now stands at just under the £850 limit and has been frozen since 
February 2022. I can understand Mr Hs reluctance to produce evidence of his ability to pay. 
He also feels that Studio isnt entitled to see any medical evidence. I can understand his 
point of view but if Studio is going to consider a payment arrangement or even writing off any 
of the balance it is entitled to see evidence to justify that. It has to treat vulnerable customers 
fairly. I think it has treated Mr H fairly but I would urge him to get in touch with Studio to sort 
out any future payment arrangement. He has been given details of organisations that offer 
help in these situations and he may want to contact one of them.
However on the evidence Ive seen I m not persuaded that I should uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman