DRN-4196151
The complaint
Mr H complains that he paid off his credit card with Lloyds Bank PLC and later cancelled his 
direct debit. The account went into arrears, and this has affected his credit file.
What happened
In 2016 Mr H paid the full balance off his Lloyds credit card, but several days later he used 
the card to withdraw cash. Mr H continued to pay a direct debit for the minimum payment 
each month until he cancelled it in July 2018, but there was still a balance on the credit card. 
Six-months later, Lloyds sent the account to its collections team and the account was closed. 
Lloyds provided credit reference agencies with information that Mr H had missed six-months 
payments but didnt register a default.
Mr H complained to Lloyds that he believed he had closed the credit card account and that 
hed paid off the full balance in August 2016. Mr H said the missed payments Lloyds had 
recorded were having an impact on his ability to take out a new mortgage. Lloyds didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and said that it had accurately reported the correct information on 
his credit card, and as it has an obligation to do this it wouldnt remove the missed payment 
markers.
Mr H brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our Investigator 
looked into things. The Investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt done anything significantly 
wrong, and Mr H asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons provided by our 
Investigator Ive decided that Lloyds provided accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies, and I wont be upholding the complaint. I will now explain why and address further 
comments Mr H has provided.
Mr Hs credit card statements explain that if Mr H wanted to change his address he should 
write to Lloyds. The statement for September 2016 shows Mr H had paid off his credit card 
in full on 17 September  not in August - but also recorded Mr H made a cash withdrawal on 
21 September. This statement confirmed Mr Hs new balance and was sent to the address 
Lloyds held for Mr H.
Mr H says he contacted Lloyds in August 2016 to let them know he was moving address and 
he was told he had to go into a branch to change his address. Mr H says that he asked to 
close the credit card account at this time. Whilst I acknowledge what Mr H has said, Mr H 
used his credit card in September, so I think its more likely than not Mr H hadnt closed the 
account at this time, although I acknowledge he paid off the balance from the previous 
statement, this doesnt mean the account was closed. Mr H did call Lloyds in November to 
try and change his address and Lloyds records that Mr H said he no longer wanted the 
account. In the telephone call, for which there is no call recording as Lloyds dont keep calls 
for this long, Lloyds records Mr H attempted to change his address, but that this couldnt be 
done. Mr Hs credit card statements explained Mr H would need to write into Lloyds to 
change his address, and Mr H has explained he had also been given the option of going into 
a local branch to do this. 
Mr H says Lloyds should have done more to make him aware that his credit card still had a 
balance on it. Lloyds issued statements to Mr H after the cash withdrawal on 21 September 
and before its likely Mr H attempted to change his address  and later sent statements to 
the address it held for Mr H. As I think its more likely than not that Mr H didnt attempt to 
change his address until November  and didnt make any further attempt to do so - I think 
Lloyds acted reasonably in sending statements with the card balance to the address it held 
for Mr H, and Mr H had a responsibility to ensure Lloyds had his correct address.
Mr H paid the minimum payment by direct debit until 2018. When he cancelled the direct 
debit, Mr H says that Lloyds made no attempt to let him know he had missed payments. 
Lloyds has provided evidence that it sent an SMS text messages on 2 August 2018 to the 
same mobile number Mr H has provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Lloyds also 
sent a letter regarding the missed payment to the address it held for Mr H in August 2018. 
So, Im persuaded Lloyds did attempt to contact Mr H after the direct debit was cancelled. 
I have a good deal of empathy with Mr H and the position he finds himself in regards a 
proposed re-mortgage - this must be frustrating and stressful. However, Lloyds did provide 
Mr H with details about how he could change his address  along with the alternative option 
of going into a branch  and Ive not seen that Mr H made any further attempts to update his 
address after November 2016. Lloyds sent a text message about the missed payment to the 
current mobile number of Mr H and sent a letter to the address it held for Mr H but received 
no further payments to the account. So, I dont think Lloyds has incorrectly recorded the 
missed payments on the credit card account. Taking all of this into account, Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt done anything 
significantly wrong, and I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman