DRN-2730016
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK PLCs handling of a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
A third party claimed a named driver on Mr Hs car insurance policy collided with the rear of 
their van. Mr H denied the incident happen and AXA asked him to provide a statement and 
photographs of his car to support his claim, but Mr H informed them he had sold the car. 
AXA said they closed the claim as there was no communication from the third-partys 
insurer. But, their insurers continued to pursue the claim with AXA and provided photographs 
of the damage to their drivers van and Mr Hs car. AXA said that the initial claim had been 
closed in error and so they set up a new reference in order to deal with the claim. AXA said 
they contacted Mr H to ask him for his evidence, but it wasnt provided to them. So, they 
settled the claim without prejudice, because they said they had no evidence to defend it.
Mr H is unhappy and says: 
he was told the claim had been closed, but later found out there was a duplicate 
claim settled without his knowledge. He says he only found out the claim had been 
settled against him, when he attempted to arrange a new policy elsewhere.
AXA acted fraudulently by dealing with the claim without his knowledge. 
Our investigator acknowledged AXA made an error in closing the initial complaint but didnt 
think it meant they couldnt settle the claim. He thought AXA had rectified their mistake but 
felt they should pay Mr H £100 for the distress their mistake caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has confirmed his complaint is about the duplicate claim that was set up, and is not 
regarding the outcome of the claim itself. He doesnt think AXA should have dealt with the 
claim after they told him it had been closed. So, Ive focussed on this in my decision. 
AXAs case notes show that after the initial claim was closed, a new claim reference was set 
up, and they settled the outstanding claim under the new reference. They accept that the 
initial claim shouldnt have been closed when it was. And its not in dispute that their error led 
Mr H to believe the claim wouldnt be recorded against him. So, what I must decide is the 
impact of AXAs error on Mr H and whether theyve done enough to put things right. Having 
done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain why.
Mistakes can happen and our role isnt to punish a business when they do. But Id expect 
AXA to put things right and ensure Mr H hasnt lost our as a result of their error. I appreciate 
Mr H doesnt think AXA should have settled the claim after they told him it had closed and 
been removed from records. But I dont think its fair to hold AXA to what was done in error. 
The third partys insurer still wanted to pursue a claim, so I think AXA had a responsibility to 
investigate and settle the matter in the best way they saw fit.
Mr Hs policy also contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It allows AXA to 
take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up any claim in your name. This means they 
can decide to handle a claim however they see fit, even though it might mean they make a 
decision Mr H doesnt agree with. And our role isnt to say whether the incident happened, 
but whether AXA has treated him fairly.
Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if AXA had dealt with the claim correctly 
the first time, because Id expect them to ensure Mr H isnt worse off because of their error. 
And Im satisfied they handled the claim as they would have under the initial reference. I say 
this because, the third partys insurer provided evidence to support their claim, and when the 
claim was first raised AXA gave Mr H the opportunity to provide evidence to support his 
position, but he didnt, and this is likely because he had sold the car. They gave Mr H a 
second opportunity when the claim was reopened. So, I dont think the outcome they 
reached would have been any different if the claim had been dealt with under the initial 
reference. 
AXA accepted liability for the incident and paid the third partys costs. When that happens a 
fault claim will usually be recorded against the policyholder. I understand AXA had told Mr H 
the claim would be removed from his record, but once it was settled, they had a duty to 
ensure they updated the records correctly. And, Im not persuaded Mr H would have been in 
a different position to the one he is in now had things happened as they should have. 
When they set up the new reference, AXAs case notes show they attempted to call Mr H to 
discuss it, but he wasnt willing to answer their security questions or discuss the claim on the 
phone. AXA also sent him an email to inform him they would settle the claim if they didnt 
hear from him within 10 days. They sent a second email when the claim had been settled 
and closed. So, Im satisfied once they became aware of their mistake, AXA did enough to 
let him know they were still looking into the claim. 
Putting things right
Its clear Mr H believed the claim was closed, and I can understand how upsetting it was to 
learn hed been held liable for the accident. As such, I think AXA should pay Mr H £100 
compensation for the upset their error caused him. I think thats fair compensation in the 
circumstances of the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I require AXA Insurance UK PLC to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman