DRN-1540810
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside their mortgage in 2008. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 2008. At the same time, they applied for a PPI policy in 
joint names. The policy cost £82.94 and would have paid out the monthly benefit of 
£1,620.00 if Mr or Mrs D couldn't work because of an accident, sickness or if they lost their 
jobs for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator said she didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed with our adjudicator's view. They said they were under the impression that there 
was no option but to have the PPI as they were told there would be no help from 
Government if they couldn't work. They asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Mr and Mrs D say they had no idea they had taken out the PPI and that they weren't advised 
it was optional. So the first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr and Mrs D had a choice 
about taking out the cover or leaving it. I can see that on the mortgage application form, it 
states that Mr and Mrs D wished to apply for the PPI. There is also the option to say they did 
not require the cover. 
Mr and Mrs D have also crossed the box on the Giving your agreement form saying they 
wanted to apply for mortgage repayment protection through NatWest. They have also 
crossed the box which states You have explained to me how important it is to have the right 
protection in place to ensure my family and my home are covered should the unexpected 
happen and I have considered how my family or I would repay the mortgage should 
my income stop. And this form has been signed and dated.
Ive also seen a copy of a direct debit mandate that has been completed and signed. The 
mortgage offer sets out that there was no need to buy any insurance through NatWest and 
that the PPI was optional insurance which did not have to be taken out through NatWest. It 
might be that the representative explained that it would be a good idea to take out the policy 
but thats not the same thing as saying they had to have it in order to get the mortgage. Overall, looking at everything I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D chose the PPI and 
knew they could refuse it if they didn't want it.
Both parties agree this was a non-advised sale. And I havent seen anything in the 
paperwork which might indicate a tailored recommendation for the PPI was made. So as this 
was a non-advised sale NatWest did not need to take steps to make sure it was the right fit 
for Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances. But it still had to make sure it gave enough clear 
information so that Mr and Mrs D could decide for themselves whether they wanted the 
cover.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But I still think the 
policy could have been useful.
I say this because both Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the cover. As they were both in full 
time employment and dont appear to have had any pre-existing medical conditions, I dont 
think they would have been affected by any of the main exclusions in the policy terms and 
conditions which might have made it more difficult to make a claim.
Both Mr and Mrs D say they would receive full pay for six months from their employers if 
they were off sick. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months so it would have 
paid out for longer than their sick pay lasted and in addition to it. And as the policy covered 
their mortgage the consequences of being unable to repay their monthly mortgage 
repayments were serious, so I think they could have found the policy useful.
So, all in all even if the information about the policy could have been clearer, Ive set out 
above how I still think it could have been useful to protect their home if Mr and Mrs D 
couldn't work or lost their jobs. And it looks as if they chose to buy the insurance - so it looks 
like they wanted the cover at the time, even if after so long they no longer remember events 
that way. And I havent seen anything which makes me think the cost of the policy compared 
with the benefit it gave was unreasonable or unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs D would have acted differently even if NatWest had given them more or better 
information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, but after taking all the above matters into account, it 
follows that I havent upheld their complaint. I dont require NatWest to take any further 
action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman