DRN-3333886
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a subsidence claim made
under his home insurance policy. Mr W is also unhappy with Avivas proposed method to
repair the damage caused.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
What happened
I will set out the key events in brief below which are relevant to my decision. However, I want
to reassure both parties that I have read, and carefully considered, the substantial
submissions which have been provided.
Around 2011, Mr W noticed some cracking in his property and notified Aviva. Aviva
appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the damage.
The loss adjuster concluded that the damage was settlement, so Aviva turned down the
claim and Mr W arranged the required repairs. Mr W says that the loss adjuster requested
the cracks be filled and monitored for a 12-month period. And he added there was no further
damage seen in the following 12 months.
Mr W extended his property around 2015. And around 2017 he noticed further cracking to
the property. He notified Aviva around 2018 and again it appointed a loss adjuster to
investigate the damage.
Following site investigations, it was concluded that the damage was linked to subsidence
caused by clay soil shrinkage. And the cause of the ground movement was linked to a tree in
the neighbouring property.
It was agreed that removing the tree would prevent further ground movement to Mr Ws
property, but the third-party were concerned of the heave risk this could cause to their own
property.
Further investigations and expert reports (which Ill refer to later) were commissioned by both
parties to ascertain the heave risk to the third-party property and to determine the scope of
repairs required by Aviva to Mr Ws property.
Around April 2020, Aviva set out its proposal to install a root barrier between the properties
and prepare a schedule of works to repair the subsidence damage. Mr W was told It has
been accepted the neighbourstree will remain in place.
Mr W didnt agree with Avivas proposed method of repair and instructed a structural
engineer (J) to provide a report on the claim. Js report concluded that tree removal was the
best option, as in his opinion, the root barrier would have a limited lifespan, and the tree
roots could continue to cause problems to Mr Ws property foundations.
Aviva continued to liaise with the third party to either get the tree removed, or to carry out a
heave assessment risk on their property but were unsuccessful. So, around January 2021,
Aviva reverted to its proposal to install a root barrier and repair the damage to Mr Ws
property. But Aviva turned down part of Mr Ws claim for subsidence damage to his patio. It
said the foundations were of defective design and not covered by Mr Ws policy. Aviva did
offer Mr W an ex-gratia payment to repair the patio surface but said that this wouldnt cover
any repairs required to the patio foundations.
Mr W didnt agree, so around February 2021, he engaged Js services again. J visited the
property and provided a further expert report. J concluded the damage to Mr Ws property
fell into the severe category and didnt support the approach of a root barrier over removing
the tree. J concluded that in order to provide an effective and lasting repair to Mr Ws
property, the only two options that would lead to a permanent solution would be either the
tree removal, or alternatively the extensive underpinning of Mr Ws property.
Around the same time Mr W complained to Aviva and it provided its final response. It
maintained its position that a root barrier would be an effective solution to the ground
movement and it also maintained its decision to exclude the patio repairs from the claim. So,
it didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W disagreed with Avivas response and referred the complaint to our service. In summary
he asked our service to consider the following points:
The assessment and outcome of his insurance claim in 2011 was incorrect.
The solution to install a root barrier is suboptimal and would result in further and
ongoing damage to his property.
The proposed repair to his property did not include underpinning.
Avivas decision to exclude the patio from the claim.
Reimbursement for Js expert reports.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They
concluded that Mr Ws 2011 claim was most likely unrelated to the 2018 claim. And they
concluded that Aviva had taken reasonable steps during the claim to get the neighbours tree
removed. But they werent persuaded that a root barrier would lead to an effective and
lasting repair based on the expert reports provided. So, they recommended Aviva underpin
Mr Ws property in line with Js recommendations and reimburse Mr W £510 for one of Js
reports. And pay Mr W £200 compensation for some trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator provided a further recommendation to the parties in relation to the patio.
They concluded that Aviva hadnt fairly shown the foundations to the patio were defective.
So they recommended that Aviva either reconsidered this part of the claim by visiting the
property to measure the depth of the patio foundations, or if it was unable to show this, to
settle the claim and include the patio in the repairs to the property.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Both parties provided further comments to be considered.
Aviva said, in summary:
The third-party defence for not removing the tree was based on assumptions and not
factual evidence. So, it wasnt persuaded that the third-party had demonstrated there
would be too great a heave risk if the tree was removed.
It didnt agree that a root barrier should be ruled out based on an arboriculturist report
(P). It said the property layout didnt preclude this from being a viable repair schemeon the information available. Aviva concluded that it firmly believed a root barrier
could be installed to provide a lasting repair to the subsidence damage.
In July 2021, it had offered to instruct an independent engineer to assess the
damage and scope of works with a view to making the recommendation final and
binding on all parties, but Mr W had rejected this.
Whilst it didnt think underpinning was required in any event, if it were to be directed
by the ombudsman it should be localised to the areas of damage only, as
underpinning of the entire property would amount to betterment and be a
preventative measure.
It didnt agree that Js report was persuasive in changing its decision of repair method
so didnt think it should be liable for the costs of Mr W seeking an alternative opinion.
Mr W said, in summary:
That he maintained Avivas decision on the claim in 2011/12 was incorrect.
Aviva has had opportunities over the last two years to instruct further factual reports
or investigations but hadnt done so.
He was concerned that Aviva are now questioning reports and opinions that it paid
for and hadnt questioned previously.
That the loss adjusters appointed engineer had recommended either a root barrier or
underpinning, but Aviva has only ever discussed the root barrier option with him. He
said that the expert reports provided show that the root barrier would not be an
effective and lasting repair.
He had rejected a further independent engineers option as he had already instructed
and paid for one himself. Mr W added that Aviva had made no effort to resolve the
situation prior to this offer when it couldve done so much earlier in the claim.
The entire property would need to be underpinned because it had been shown that
the newer parts of the property were also being affected by tree movement. And he
pointed to the loss adjusters appointed engineers comments, which stated that if the
original construct only was underpinned then this could give rise to differential
movement and ongoing damage to his property.
He had paid over £1,900 in professional fees for Js reports and wanted this money
reimbursed, as Aviva had used Js comments in responses to our service, and further
used Js feedback to adjust the level monitoring points in the property.
He feels Avivas decision to exclude the patio from the claim is unreasonable based
on the evidence.
The complaint was passed to me and on 28 January 2022 I set out my provisional findings. 
Ive included an extract below:
This has evidently been a difficult matter for the parties to resolve and has been 
complicated by Avivas unsuccessful attempts to remove the third-party tree.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, both Mr W and Aviva agree that removing the tree would
be the preferred choice. And since the complaint has been referred to our service it appears
Aviva has attempted to further engage with the third-party to remove the tree. But as things
stand this doesnt appear to be an option. And in any event, I can see Mr W was told in April
2020 that Aviva had accepted the tree would remain, so it can be said that he has
reasonably acted with this in mind since.
So, I wish to make it clear that my decision assumes that the tree will remain, in order to
arrive at a relevant and fair answer here. And therefore, the points left for me to consider
are:Mr Ws concerns about the 2011 claim.
Whether Avivas decision to propose a root barrier is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Avivas scope of repairs and limit of liability under Mr Ws policy (including the patio).
Mr Ws request to be reimbursed for Js reports.
If any compensation is due for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W.
Link between claims
Mr W strongly feels Avivas initial decision on the 2011 claim was incorrect, so Ive
considered the report from the loss adjuster at the time as well as the more recent expert
reports for context.
The recent reports are silent on this point. But the 2011 report states, it is my opinion that
the damage to the left-hand side of the main building is the result of the residual bedding
down/settlement of the buildings structure following the roof extension works. It goes on to
state, Should new cracks in excess of 0.75mm appearsome further investigations may be
required to confirm the cause of further movement.
Mr W confirmed that the repairs were done, and no further cracks or movement were
identified until 2017. So, there wasnt anything to put Aviva on notice that it may have
misdiagnosed the cause of damage. And even if the cause of the damage was linked, based
on the limited evidence from the time I cant say Avivas initial decision was unreasonable.
Any investigations would have most likely been proportionate to the level of damage, which
appeared to be relatively minor and didnt deteriorate. So, I dont intend to conclude that
Aviva has acted unfairly regarding its conclusion about the 2011 claim.
Proposed method of repair
Having reviewed everything, I dont think a further independent report is required and I
intend to make my decision on whats already been provided.
Several expert reports have been provided for me to consider about the proposed method of
repair. And for ease of reference Ill set out the ones I intend to refer to below:
An arboriculturists report (P) around October 2019, commissioned by Aviva.
Three loss adjuster reports from around January 2020, March 2020, and January
2021, incorporating further site investigations, level monitoring results, and
commentary from their appointed structural engineer (S), commissioned by Aviva.
Two structural engineer reports (J) around April 2020 and March 2021,
commissioned by Mr W.
A third-party structural engineer report (A) around October 2019, commissioned by
the third party who own the tree.
Where the information Ive got is contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my
intended decision on the balance of probabilities.
Our services general approach is that Aviva is required to provide a remedy which leads to
an effective and lasting repair of the damage. In this case assuming the tree remains.
Avivas position is that S report shows the property can be repaired following the installation
of a root barrier. And that the root barrier will allow water run-off to rehydrate and stabilise
the soil under Mr Ws property quicker. So, it says it isnt necessary to consider more
expensive options such as underpinning. Therefore, it considers the root barrier and
superstructure repairs as the most reasonable option to settle the claim.But having read all the reports, as I understand it, Ps report (which was commissioned by
Aviva to specifically assess the heave risk to the third-party property if the tree was
removed) states, the site layout precludes a root barrier and engineering advice is that the
internal walls of [Mr Ws property] will need underpinning in any event.
The engineering advice P refers to is found within As report and overall lends weight to a
root barrier not being an effective and lasting solution.
Js report also casts doubt on the effectiveness of a root barrier stating, I am concerned
however, that root barriers generally only have a limited life with roots being known to grow
around them. And in Js next report it states, I can confirm that regular pollarding of
thetree, or a root barrier, cannot be considered as permanent solutions to stabilise either
[Mr Ws property] or to prevent potential future issues at [third party property].
I think this shows that there are different concerns with the root barrier, in terms of its
effectiveness and location. And having carefully considered all the reports I am persuaded
that it is more likely than not a root barrier wouldnt lead to an effective and lasting repair
here.
This is further supported by both A and Js reports recommending that underpinning would
be required to Mr Ws property if the tree remains. In fact, J states, There are only two
possible options namely, thetree removal, or alternatively the extensive underpinning of
[Mr Ws property].
Multiple reports comment on the issues of partial underpinning and the risk of subsequent
differential movement from the tree including S, A and J. Therefore, for that reason I am
persuaded that partial underpinning would not lead to an effective and lasting repair of the
damage based on the risks identified.
In conclusion, I am persuaded that it has been shown that the extensive underpinning
proposed by J is the only viable solution for an effective and lasting repair to take place in
the presence of the tree. So, I intend to require Aviva to settle the claim in line with the
recommendations of Js report.
Patio liability
Aviva has turned down repairs to the patio foundations as it is relying on a policy exclusion
for defective or faulty workmanship. It says the reason for this is because Mr Ws contractor
shouldve taken the proximity of the tree in the third-party property into account when
designing the patio foundations.
So, the test here is for Aviva to show this exclusion fairly applies.
Aviva has attempted to visit the property in line with our investigators recommendation to
measure the patio foundations. Mr W has said he doesnt wish for this inspection to take
place.
Having considered everything, I dont think this inspection is required to show whether the
foundations were defective or not in any event. Ill explain why below.
As our investigator has concluded, in order to fairly decline this part of the claim, Aviva would
need to show that the relevant standards werent met and that the failure to meet those
standards is the reason for the damage to the patio.Aviva has relied on guidelines attributed to an organisation which supports the building
standards of new homes, who Ill refer to as N, and as such say that the predicted depth of
the foundations (c.1 metre) are too shallow. Aviva says that all builders should reference Ns
guidelines as part of good industry practice.
I understand the point Aviva is making here, but Ive seen no firm evidence to show this is
the case. And given that building regulations dont apply to patio constructions, this would
mean Mr W and his builder would be held to a higher standard of construction than they
were required to meet. I say this because whilst a builder could consider Ns guidelines
when planning the foundation depth of a patio, it only needs to consider any relevant
regulations that apply.
Further, when the patio was built Mr W wasnt aware there was a risk of subsidence damage
to its foundations. His previous claim had been linked to settlement and so he wouldnt have
been able to reasonably foresee that the tree was a potential problem. And as far as I can
see neither property had a history of subsidence so he wouldnt have been able to furnish
the builder with this information.
In any event, had the patios foundations been slightly deeper to take into account the
nearby tree, then I think it would have most likely subsided anyway due to the dominant
cause of clay shrinkage happening in the underlying, deeper soil.
So in the circumstances of this claim, I dont think Aviva has shown that this exclusion fairly
applies, and I intend to require Aviva to include the repairs to the patio foundations as part of
the wider scope of repairs to Mr Ws property.
Reimbursement of expert reports
Our investigator recommended Aviva reimburse Mr W £510 for one of Js reports. But I can
see that in total Mr W has claimed for two of Js reports totalling around £1,900.
Ive considered both reports in my decision, and in my opinion both reports have provided
evidence to support Mr Ws claim. The April 2020 report raises concerns with the
effectiveness of the root barrier, in conjunction with the potential for further movement to the
newer extensions of the property. And the March 2021 report is considerably detailed and
provides substantial evidence (following a site visit) about the damage to the property and
the need for a permanent solution.
So it follows that as Js reports have provided clear evidence to a permanent solution to
stabilising Mr Ws property in the presence of the tree, I intend to require Aviva to reimburse
Mr W for the cost of these reports subject to proof (such as an invoice) being provided as
evidence of the cost to Mr W.
Compensation
Ive considered that subsidence claims can be complex and will offer incur delays whilst the
parties determine the best way to proceed with the claim. On this occasion I acknowledge
that not all the delays were caused by Aviva. But I do need to consider if compensation is
due for any avoidable delays it was responsible for.
Aviva has provided evidence that it has made several attempts to contact the third-party
solicitors to remove the tree, and to conduct further investigations as to the impact of the tree
removal. I can see that it didnt always keep Mr W in the loop, and I can imagine this
wouldve added to his frustration as the claim didnt appear to be moving forward. So, I think
Aviva did cause some upset to Mr W here.I dont think Aviva can be held responsible for delays up to April 2020, as it was still actively
engaged in pursuing the tree removal. But when it drew up the proposal for the root barrier it
seems to have accepted the tree would remain. So, I think there has been some avoidable
delays caused between April 2020, and the time the complaint was referred to our service in
February 2021. I say this because Mr W has been held to a position on the claim where he
felt he had no other option but to get an independent engineers report. And this had added
additional time to the claim overall. And I acknowledge that whilst Aviva did offer an
Independent Engineers opinion in July 2021, this was some months after the complaint had
been referred to our service, and after Mr W had already commissioned two expert reports
for a proposed solution. So this wouldve been of much greater and practical benefit around
April 2020 when the proposed scope of repairs was disputed by Mr W.
Additionally, Im not persuaded that Aviva has considered the worsening condition of Mr Ws
property when it reviewed its position on the claim at the final response stage. Aviva
proposed the root barrier as a solution and its approach is to wait until the property stabilises
before commencing repairs. But Js report (which Mr W provided to Aviva) states, It is
evident that the property is suffering from significant structural damage whereas Avivas
earlier reports indicated the cracking and damage was less severe. So, I think it can be
shown that the delays since April 2020 have contributed to worsen the damage for which
Aviva has already accepted there is a valid claim.
Taking all the above into account, I find that an award of £700 would better reflect the
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W that Ive set out above.
In summary, I proposed that to put things right, Aviva should:
Settle the claim by arranging to underpin the entire of Mr Ws property in line with the
recommendations in Js report.
Include the repairs to the patio foundations into the overall scope of repairs.
Reimburse Mr W for the costs of Js reports, subject to proof of evidence, such as an
invoice.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amounts Mr W paid for the reports, from the date they
were paid for to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mr W £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W accepted most of my provisional findings. But he felt the amount of compensation I 
proposed was too low. He provided a further submission which Ive carefully considered 
below.
In summary, Mr W said:
That the evidence relied on in my decision had been available since October 2019, 
and since then Aviva has been fighting to get him to agree to the cheaper repair 
option of a root barrier. And he said that Aviva had constantly been playing down the 
damage to his property to support its proposed repairs.
That Aviva deprived him of the funds he spent to obtain the expert reports for two 
years when it was aware of his specific personal circumstances, and this increased 
the overall burden on him at the time.
That Aviva had added to the distress and inconvenience by not upholding any part of 
his complaint.Based on his experiences with the third party, he doesnt believe Aviva has credibly 
pursued the removal of the tree with them as he says the evidence shows it would 
then mean that both properties would most likely require underpinning.
That at the time of the claim he was going through a difficult situation in his personal 
life, which Aviva were aware of, and used this to try and get him to accept a cheaper 
repair so he could move on.
There had been additional stress caused by watching the property deteriorate over 
the last two years, which couldve been avoided had Aviva decided on a reasonable 
repair sooner.
That Avivas decision to exclude the patio from the policy liability late in the claim 
caused additional upset.
That he hasnt been fairly compensated for the time taken to deal with both the claim, 
and in bringing the complaint to our service.
Aviva provided further commentary from its loss adjuster which was annotated to my 
provisional decision. In summary, it said:
The proposed root barrier was a proportionate repair to the level of damage in        
Mr Ws property, as the level monitoring shows only minor movements in the majority 
of places.
The severe damage in Js report was locally to the hall walls and movement of the 
floor.
That it had instructed additional internal site investigations and enhanced level 
monitoring to determine if part of the property extension was being influenced by the 
tree. But in its opinion, it didnt think it was.
That I had drawn the wrong conclusion on S report; it said the root barrier would be 
of the greatest benefit, and not that it wasnt necessary to consider underpinning.
The extent of the underpinning scheme proposed by J had not yet been produced. 
And in any event, it didnt think full underpinning was appropriate as the damage was 
concentrated in the rear left-hand side of the property. It questioned to what extent 
my recommendation for underpinning the property covered.
It asked if it would be held to a higher standard of repairs for the patio or whether it 
could rely on the existing foundations as building regulations didnt apply. And it 
suggested that a competent builder or designer wouldve factored in the tree and soil 
composition to their plan.
oIt didnt agree that it was most likely the patio wouldve subsided in any event 
because no investigation of the foundation had taken place. So it maintained 
it could still be due to shallow foundations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws response
Ive considered Mr Ws comments carefully about why he feels further compensation is due. 
And whilst his response goes into some detail, I havent seen anything which wasnt 
available to me (albeit in more general terms) when I decided the award in my provisional 
decision.In addition, some of the events Mr W refers to (such as maintaining the patio) happened 
before the point which I had determined Aviva was responsible for any avoidable delays  
around April 2020. And whilst I acknowledge that this claim happened at a difficult time for 
him personally, I can only award for avoidable delays, and distress or inconvenience which 
are as a direct result of Avivas actions. In other words, had the claim been handled as 
expected throughout, it appears that there were still events which wouldve caused Mr W 
some distress and upset here. 
Ill also acknowledge that whilst it is clear Mr W has spent considerable time preparing his 
submission to our service, we dont generally award compensation for the time spent in 
dealing with, or handling of a complaint. And we dont pay compensation for a business 
decision to not uphold a complaint. 
The fees reimbursed for Mr Ws expert reports include an interest payment which covers the 
time he was without the funds. I am satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable remedy in line 
with our general approach. So, I wont require Aviva to pay additional compensation for this.
I do not intend to make light of Mr Ws situation over the last few years, and I was sorry to 
read of how the events overall have taken a toll on him and his family. But having 
reconsidered my decision, I am satisfied that the award proposed fairly reflects the impact of 
the delays directly attributed to Aviva. And this includes the deterioration to Mr Ws property 
which I set out in my provisional decision. 
Avivas response
Aviva hasnt provided any comment about my proposal to reimburse Mr Ws reports, or on 
my compensation award. So, having reconsidered these two points, Ive come to the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Whilst Avivas loss adjuster has raised concerns over parts of my provisional decision, it 
hasnt provided me with any new evidence which wasnt available to me when I set out my 
provisional findings. So, for me to change my mind I would need to be persuaded that I 
initially reached an outcome that was unfair and unreasonable on the same evidence. 
I can see there remains some dispute from both parties about the extent of the efforts made 
to remove the third-party tree. But I dont think its relevant for me to go into this any further. 
As I set out in my provisional findings, the crux of the issue is that the tree remains, and 
therefore an effective and lasting repair is required to Mr Ws property for the damage 
caused by subsidence.Avivas comments indicate that Ive not placed the right emphasis on S report by saying that 
it concluded that underpinning the property wasnt necessary. And that the root barrier 
wasnt the most reasonable option but the most proportionate to the damage caused. Having 
reconsidered this, I can see that S comments state we recommend option 1 [the root 
barrier] would be of greatest benefit. The benefits of this option are: a. No partial 
underpinning scheme is undertaken to the property which could give rise to further possible 
differential movements to the underpinned and on underpinned areas
I agree with the loss adjusters comments about what S report concludes. And I want to 
reassure Aviva that this was factored into my original decision. My comments on this point 
were to infer that as S proposed the root barrier, then simply put it didnt think underpinning 
the property was needed, otherwise it wouldve recommended that instead.
Having considered the points the loss adjuster raised, and reconsidered the expert reports 
provided, Ive not seen anything further that persuades me that the conclusions I reached 
were either unfair or unreasonable. So I refer to my provisional decision where I concluded 
that it has been shown that the extensive underpinning proposed by J is the only viable 
solution for an effective and lasting repair to take place in the presence of the tree.
  
I acknowledge Avivas comments that the extent of the underpinning scheme has not yet 
been produced, and that it doesnt think full underpinning is appropriate. But as set out in my 
provisional decision, the reports Ive considered highlight the risks of differential movement 
should the property be partially underpinned. So, my direction of underpinning the entire of 
Mr Ws property was aimed at ensuring the proposed schedule of repairs was effective and 
lasting, in line with our services principles of fairly and reasonable settling the claim. 
Having reconsidered my direction, I accept that Js report suggests the property will need 
extensive underpinning, and this may not necessarily mean the entire property is covered 
in the scheme. But this will be for the expert engineers to decide what is required in order to 
complete an effective and lasting repair to Mr Ws property. Should there be a dispute about 
the scope of the underpinning scheme moving forward, then this will be a matter that falls 
outside my decision.
Ultimately, my role here isnt to decide the scope of underpinning required. I have weighed 
up everything thats been provided by the experts and decided what I find most persuasive. 
So, it follows that my direction is that the claim be settled by arranging to underpin Mr Ws 
property in line with the recommendations in Js report.
With regard to the patio and its foundations, the same reasoning for an effective and lasting 
repair applies. If Aviva can ensure this is the case using the same foundations, then it can do 
so. But in line with our services approach, it is possible that Aviva will need to undertake 
repairs for uninsured work to ensure it is lasting. And from what Ive seen its more likely than 
not that this would include additional work to the patio foundations, given that the tree 
remains.
I therefore direct Aviva to put things right as set out below.Putting things right
Settle the claim by arranging to underpin Mr Ws property in line with the
recommendations in Js report.
Include the repairs to the patio and its foundations into the overall scope of repairs.
Reimburse Mr W for the costs of Js reports, subject to proof of evidence, such as an
invoice.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amounts Mr W paid for the reports, from the date they
were paid for to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mr W £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. I require Aviva Insurance to put things right 
for Mr W by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman