DRN-2982514
Complaint
Mr D says that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly added overdraft charges to his account when 
he was in financial difficulty. Hes also said that TSB exceeded the £80 monthly cap on fees 
on a number of occasions.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns. He didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts TSB charged Mr D over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr D if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where TSB didnt treat Mr D fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where TSB continued charging 
Mr D even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was 
the case. Having thought about everything, I dont think that TSB did treat Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive also looked through Mr Ds statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
TSB ought to have been aware that Mr D might have been struggling. Mr D may argue his 
regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that she was struggling. 
I also think its fair to say that there were periods when Mr Ds account balance was in credit. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr D expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions as well as transfers being made from the account too. Equally the 
amount being credited to Mr Ds account each month didnt indicate that there was no 
reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr D wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted TSB to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it 
added. And I dont think TSB unfairly charged Mr D in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive also seen what Mr D has said about TSB exceeding the £80 monthly cap on overdraft 
fees and associated charges on a number of occasions. But having looked at Mr Ds account 
statements, I cant see that Mr D was ever charged more than £80 in overdraft interest and 
associated fees in a given month. There were a couple of months where the total amount   
Mr D was charged exceeded £80. But this was only because of the fees for his packaged 
bank account which werent subject to the cap. 
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr D  especially as its taken 
some time for her case to reach this stage. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman