DRN-4322515
The complaint
Mr B complains about delays and poor service from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money when transferring an ISA to a new provider. 
What happened
Mr B has explained that he was in the process of transferring his ISA from Virgin Money to 
another provider and on 19 November 2022 Mr B says he tried to contact Virgin Money to 
check the status of his account. But after waiting 40 minutes for an online chat Mr B says he 
was asked to call. But after waiting a further 30 minutes on hold, Mr B was told to call 
another number due to the type of ISA he held. Mr B says that after waiting on hold for a 
further 20 minutes his call was dropped so he had to call again. 
Mr B complained and Virgin Money issued a final response on 20 December 2022. Virgin 
Money explained some issues with the transfer request had delayed it. Virgin Money advised 
the ISA transfer had been completed and paid Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the service provided. 
In March 2023 Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. Mr B explained that despite raising a complaint, Virgin Money had failed to 
respond. Our investigator forwarded a copy of Virgin Moneys final response dated 20 
December 2022. The investigator added that they thought Virgin Money had already paid a 
settlement that was fair. 
Mr B asked to appeal and said inconsistencies in Virgin Moneys final response made him 
think it related to another complaint hed raised. In addition, Mr B said the £100 settlement 
didnt factor in the costs hed incurred obtaining the help of a support worker to assist with 
the complaint. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr Bs complaint was made on the basis of the service he received on 19 November 2022 
when he tried to contact Virgin Money to check the status of his ISA. Mr B has explained he 
spent several hours trying to speak with someone and that wait times were unreasonably 
long. Calls were dropped and Mr B wasnt called back. I can understand why Mr B grew 
frustrated at the service provided and time taken. 
Virgin Money investigated Mr Bs complaint and accepted it had failed to provide a 
reasonable level of service. Mr Bs told us that he confused the final response Virgin Money 
issued and thought it related to another complaint. But Im satisfied the final response clearly 
sets out the circumstances of the complaint it was dealing with and explains why an award of 
£100 was made to Mr B. Whilst Ive taken Mr Bs comments into account, I havent been 
persuaded the final response was unclear or misrepresented the circumstances of his case. 
Ive considered whether there are grounds to increase the award, especially taking Mr Bs 
comments about his costs into account. But I havent been persuaded that would be fair. 
Ultimately, Mr B raised a complaint and Virgin Money issued its final response around a 
month later. Whilst I appreciate Mr B may have paid support workers for additional time, Im 
satisfied Virgin Money responded in good time as required when it issued its final response 
on 20 December 2022. 
I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mr B. But Im satisfied that Virgin Moneys 
offer of £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve his complaint. To put it another way, the settlement is very much 
in line with what I wouldve awarded had no offer been made. As Im satisfied Virgin Money 
has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman