DRN-4110772
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) unnecessarily delayed the 
transfer of her Personal Pension Plan (PPP) and the payment of her tax-free cash (TFC) 
entitlement.
In this complaint Mrs G is represented by a third party, but for clarity I will refer to all actions 
and correspondence as being carried out by Mrs G herself. 
What happened
Mrs G had a PPP with Phoenix which was held in trust. On 18 June 2021 Mrs G wrote to 
Phoenix to request the full value of the PPP to be paid to her in August 2022, on her 65th 
birthday.
This letter was not responded to, so a complaint was raised. Phoenix upheld the complaint 
and explained to Mrs G that she would need to contact it 10 weeks before she planned to 
retire so it could send her a retirement pack. Phoenix also explained it would need to speak 
to Mrs G to confirm her chosen retirement option.
Phoenix sent Mrs G a wake up letter in February 2022 which provided information about 
her retirement options, and this was followed on 13 June 2022 by a Retirement Options 
Pack. This detailed the options available to Mrs G and explained that she would need to call 
so that they could talk through her circumstances and decision.
On 17 June 2022 Mrs G wrote to Phoenix to request the full cash value of her PPP be paid 
to her on her 65th birthday. Mrs G wrote again on 22 June 2022 to repeat the request and 
gave Phoenix her authority for her representative to act on her behalf.
On 21 July 2022 Mrs G spoke to Phoenix who explained that a verbal journey needed to be 
completed to enable Mrs G to take her PPP benefits. Mrs G said she wished to take the 
whole value of the plan as a tax-free lump sum, but Phoenix said she was only entitled to 
25% of the plan as TFC. As Mrs G wanted Phoenix to check the level of TFC entitlement, 
the verbal journey wasnt completed during this call.
On 25 July 2022 Phoenix confirmed that Mrs Gs representative had been added as a 
trustee on her PPP and Mrs G wrote to Phoenix the following day to provide it with her 
representatives address. On 29 July 2022 Mrs G complained to Phoenix that her requests 
hadnt been actioned within a reasonable timeframe.
On 12 August 2022 Mrs G Emailed Phoenix to request the TFC be paid into her bank 
account on or before her 65th birthday, which was later that month. She asked whether the 
remaining funds in her PPP could be transferred into a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) or a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS). Later in August 2022 Mrs G again 
emailed Phoenix as she had not received the TFC and the decision about the remainder of 
her funds had yet to be progressed.
Three days later Phoenix contacted Mrs G and the verbal journey was completed, and on 
2 September 2022 it posted the transfer pack to her. Phoenix explained that the transfer 
discharge form needed to be signed by all the trustees, and that written confirmation from 
the new provider was required to confirm the transfer would be accepted. Mrs G responded 
on 16 September 2022 with the completed transfer discharge form, and confirmed the trust 
form of the SSAS was held by the new provider. 
On 20 October 2022 Phoenix received documentation relating to the SSAS.
As Mrs G hadnt had a response from Phoenix about her complaint, on 25 October 2022 she 
referred the complaint to our Service. She said Phoenix was being unresponsive and not 
communicating with her. She wanted to take her TFC and for her residual PPP funds to be 
transferred to her SSAS. And said Phoenix should pay her compensation for the delays and 
her representatives fees.
On 31 October 2022 Phoenix confirmed Mrs Gs representatives address had been updated 
on its systems.
On 8 November 2022 Phoenix requested specific information about the SSAS and Mrs G 
confirmed this would be posted to Phoenix later that day.
On 14 November 2022 HMRC confirmed to Phoenix that the SSAS was registered with 
itself. The following day Phoenix requested documentary confirmation that the SSASs rules 
had been updated to reflect the changes to pension rules.
On 28 November 2022 Phoenix sent Mrs G its final response to her complaint. It said it 
hadnt caused unnecessary delays to the transfer process, but said it had provided her with 
a poor service and hadnt updated her representatives address details when originally 
informed. It offered Mrs G a total of £280 compensation, which it said included £150 for its 
delay in responding to her complaint, £10 for postage costs and £20 for the cost of phone 
calls.
On 29 December 2022 Mrs G complained to our Service that the TFC cheque, dated 
19 December 2022, had been sent to the wrong address by Phoenix.
Our Investigator considered everything that had happened but didnt think Phoenix had 
caused any undue delays to the process. She thought that Phoenix had regulatory 
requirements to fulfil, and three months to complete the transfer of this complexity was not 
unreasonable. 
Our Investigator said she could see that during the process Phoenix had taken longer than 
expected to investigate the amount of TFC Mrs G could take, and also that it hadnt updated 
the representatives address details properly. But she thought these two issues hadnt 
affected the overall time taken for the transfer and Phoenix had recognised and apologised 
for these errors. 
But when considering how much compensation Phoenix had offered for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs G had been caused by Phoenixs errors, our Investigator made a 
mistake. She thought that Phoenix had offered a total of £400, whereas the correct figure 
was a total of £280. And our Investigator told Mrs G that she thought £400 was a fair amount 
when considering what had happened. 
When this error was pointed out to her, our Investigator apologised for her mistake. And 
having reconsidered the compensation of £280 and compared it to what our Service would 
recommend, she thought this amount was fair. So she didnt recommend that Phoenix 
should pay more.Mrs G did not accept this outcome. She thought that as the Investigator had stated that £400 
was fair, it couldnt be right that the lower amount of £280 was also fair. But our Investigator 
didnt agree and said £280 was within the range of awards which reflected the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I have 
looked at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to 
the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter, rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to 
either Mrs G or her representative. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its 
remit and my role in it. I also need to make clear that I am only considering the events which 
occurred prior to Phoenixs final complaint response dated 28 November 2022. I understand 
Mrs G is concerned that Phoenix sent the TFC payment cheque to the incorrect address in 
December 2022, but as she has been advised, if she wishes to complain about this then this 
will need to be considered separately. I have not taken this into account in my decision.
Mrs G complaints to our Service are that Phoenix caused unnecessary delays in the transfer 
of her PPP funds into her SSAS, and about the general poor service Phoenix provided 
during the process. Phoenix has agreed there were occasions where it didnt respond to Mrs 
G in a timely manner, and that it didnt update its systems properly when it was required to 
do so. It has paid £280 compensation for this and the delay in answering her complaints, but 
it said it hadnt caused any undue delays in the transfer process. 
Having considered everything, our Investigator agreed with this outcome  she felt that the 
three months taken for a non-standard transfer of this nature was reasonable. And Mrs G 
hasnt contested this element of her opinion. What Mrs G doesnt agree with however, is the 
level of compensation she is due. She feels that the £400 which the Investigator initially 
thought that Phoenix had paid and had said was fair, was a true reflection of the 
circumstances. 
I understand that the transfer of her pension is a very important occurrence for Mrs G, and 
one that she would want to go smoothly. And having seen the correspondence from her I get 
a real sense of frustration and irritation that the transfer has not gone as shed hoped or 
expected. But I can also see that it wasnt just the errors that Phoenix have made which has 
caused this frustration. It was also caused by some of the requirements made by Phoenix to 
enable it to facilitate the transfer, but these were reasonable and required in the 
circumstances. So I have to take this into account. Im satisfied that not all of the frustration 
and irritation caused to Mrs G was avoidable, and I can see that Phoenix explained what it 
needed to complete the transfer, and why.
But Phoenix did make some errors. It didnt update its systems with Mrs Gs representatives 
details, and this led to additional work for Mrs G. And Mrs G was caused additional 
frustration by Phoenix not responding to some of her letters, again causing her more work.
But having looked at everything that has happened Im satisfied that £280 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and is broadly in line with our Services approach to this 
type of compensation. So, whilst I agree that Phoenix have made errors and provided a poor 
service, I wont be requiring Phoenix to pay anything more.My final decision
I do not require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to do anything further in resolution of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman