DRN-4090669
The complaint
Mr C complains that the compensation offered by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited following delays to the payment of some pension benefits is insufficient.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I thought that the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr C holds pension savings with Prudential. In May 2022 Mr C asked to withdraw a 
gross payment of £42,000 from those pension savings. The payment was made to 
Mr C on 23 June 2022.
Prudential accepts that it took too long to make that payment. It told Mr C that it 
should have completed the processing of his request by 23 May 2022. So it offered 
him some compensation. It says that it calculated (using the statutory rate of 8%) the 
interest that should be paid to Mr C for the late payment of his pension income. It 
assessed that interest as being £276.15. And it added some further interest for the 
period until the compensation was paid. Prudential also paid Mr C £175 for the 
inconvenience hed been caused. So in total Prudential paid £452.37 to Mr C.
In its response to the complaint Prudential accepted that it had taken too long to 
process Mr Cs payment. It said that the processing of the payment should have 
been completed by 23 May 2022. And it seems that Mr C is satisfied with Prudentials 
assessment of when the payment should have been made. So what remains for me 
to consider in this decision is what needs to be done in order to put things right.
As I said earlier Prudential has paid Mr C some interest to reflect the time during 
which his payment was delayed. I think that a payment of that nature is appropriate. 
There was a period of time, of approximately one month, during which Mr C went 
without the payment he had requested from his pension savings.
But I havent seen anything that explains in detail how Prudential has calculated the 
value of that compensation. And I havent been able to reconcile the payment 
through my own calculations. So I ask that Prudential provides me with further 
information about that payment in response to this provisional decision.
But I agree with Mr C that the compensation that Prudential has paid to him doesnt 
reflect all the losses that the delay caused as I will now go on to explain.
Mr Cs pension savings were entirely invested in a single Prudential fund  the 
Prudential UK Smaller Companies fund. So, when he asked to take money from his 
pension fund, Prudential needed to sell some of his investments in order to make the 
payment. But the payment that Mr C requested was described in terms of the cash 
value. So the number of units of his investments that would need to be sold would be 
directly influenced by the price of that investment as the relevant time.
As I said earlier, Prudential has said that it should have completed the payment to 
Mr C by 23 May. But in fact Prudential processed Mr Cs instruction on 13 June. 
During that time the unit price of Mr Cs pension investment fell by around 2.5%. So 
that means the number of units of the investment that Prudential needed to sell on 
13 June to raise the requested £42,000 was higher than if the transaction had been 
completed at the earlier date. So that leads to a reasonable conclusion, as Mr C 
says, that his residual pension investments are now less than they would have been 
had Prudential not delayed the processing of his withdrawal instruction.
Prudential has paid Mr C £175 to reflect the inconvenience he has been caused. 
I think a payment of that value is reasonable under the circumstances here. So 
I dont intend to ask Prudential to pay any further compensation of that nature to 
Mr C.
As I have explained above, I think that Mr Cs losses from the delay are twofold. 
There was a period of time that he was without use of the money he requested. 
A payment of compensatory interest for that period is appropriate, and Prudential 
should confirm the basis of its calculations in response to this provisional decision. 
And the delay to the sale of part of Mr Cs pension investments meant that he was 
left with fewer invested units than he should have been. So Prudential needs to 
calculate that loss and put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr C has told us that he has nothing further to add to his previous 
submissions. Prudential has said that it agrees with my provisional decision and is happy to 
carry out the loss assessment that I suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So it follows that 
I think that Mr Cs losses from the delay are twofold. There was a period of time that he was 
without use of the money he requested. A payment of compensatory interest for that period 
is appropriate. And the delay to the sale of part of Mr Cs pension investments meant that he 
was left with fewer invested units than he should have been. So Prudential needs to 
calculate that loss and put things right.
Putting things right
Prudential has failed to explain, as I requested it to, how it has calculated the compensatory 
interest it has paid to Mr C for the delay in making the payment. So I am setting out my 
expectations below. Prudential should check its calculations against the methodology I have 
set out, and if necessary pay any additional amount to Mr C. It should also calculate whether 
Mr C has lost out as result of the delay in selling some of his pension investments.
So to put things right, Prudential should;
Calculate the interest payable, at a simple interest rate of 8% per annum, on the 
value of the income payment it made to Mr C from the date it should have been paid to the date of actual payment. HM Revenue & Customs requires Prudential to take 
off tax from this interest. Prudential must give Mr C a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Should the interest calculated above be greater than the sum already paid to Mr C, 
Prudential should pay him the difference.
Calculate the number of investments units that would have needed to be sold in 
order to raise the requested payment of £42,000 at the earlier processing date.
Compare those units with those that were actually sold in June 2022.
If fewer units would have been sold in May 2022, the difference should be added 
back to Mr Cs pension savings.
Should Prudential be unable to add the additional units back into Mr Cs pension plan, it 
should instead pay him some cash compensation calculated as the number of additional 
units valued as at the date of this final decision. But had it been possible to add the 
compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore 
any cash compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's expected marginal rate of tax 
when he would take the income. I think that its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at that time, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr C 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman