DRN-4381961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a 
claim made under their travel insurance policy, including declining their claim made under 
the policy for cancellation of their holiday.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on the policy to cover their out-of-pocket expenses when 
cancelling a cruise holiday because Mr M was very sadly diagnosed with cancer, requiring 
urgent treatment.
Admiral declined the claim because Mr and Mrs M hadnt bought optional cruise cover when 
taking out their travel insurance  which was a yearly policy providing cover for multiple trips. 
And without buying optional cruise cover, the policy contained an exclusion that the policy 
didnt cover any part of a trip comprising a cruise. 
Unhappy Mr and Mrs M complained to Admiral. 
Admiral maintained its decision to decline the claim. However, it did accept that there had 
been a delay. It paid £30 compensation to recognise this. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed so Ive been passed this complaint to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed but the following reasons Im satisfied Admiral has 
fairly and reasonably declined their claim.
The policy does provide cover for cancellation due to illness. However, thats subject 
to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
The policy terms and conditions contain general exclusions which apply to all 
sections of the policy, including the cancellation section. Exclusion 23 says Admiral 
wont pay any claim which is in any way caused by or resulting from: your trip or part 
of your trip being a cruise, unless you have included our additional cruise cover and 
paid the appropriate additional premium. If you have this cover it will be shown on 
your policy schedule. 
Im satisfied the relevant policy schedule reflects that Mr and Mrs M hadnt bought 
optional cruise cover. And Mr and Mrs M accept that they didnt buy this at the time. 
So, under the terms and conditions of the policy, I think the claim for cancellation of 
the cruise holiday is excluded.
Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on the cruise 
exclusion in the circumstances of this particular case and I think it is.
Mr and Mrs M say they believed optional cruise cover only covered them for issues 
once the cruise started. The optional cruise cover section of the policy reflects that it 
covers events such as missed port departure, cruise cabin confinement, unused 
excursions, cruise itinerary change and cruise interruption. So, as they had no 
intention of taking a cruise holiday when taking out the policy and only booked their 
cruise holiday late into the policy year (scheduled for after the policy year ended), Mr 
and Mrs M say they had intended to add cruise cover at the next policy renewal. 
I understand the points Mr and Mrs M make. But at the top of section 12 - cruise 
cover  I think it makes clear that this cover is only included if the extra premium has 
been paid. Further, it says you must include this additional cover if any part of your 
trip will include a cruise.
Further, important information is set out on a separate page at the start of the 
additional cover section of the policy terms. It explains that the following sections of 
cover can be included and if your trip will include winter sports activities or a cruise, 
you must add the relevant covers. It then provides a telephone number to call if the 
policyholder wishes to add any additional cover. 
Further, Ive considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)  which 
doesnt form part of the insurance contract between Mr and Mrs M and Admiral  but 
does summarise the key terms including what is and isnt covered under the policy. 
It says on page 1 (under the heading: what extra cover can be added (optional)?) 
Cruise cover: up to £750 for specified cruise related incidents This optional cover 
must be included if going on a cruise trip or the policy will not provide any cover for 
it. 
Im satisfied that the IPID and the terms and conditions are sufficiently and 
reasonably clear, that unless optional cruise cover has been bought as an add on to 
the policy, Admiral wont cover any claim relating to a cruise (not just those insured 
events superficially included in the cruise cover section of the policy). 
Admiral has paid Mr and Mrs M £30 compensation for delays. 
Despite being asked by our investigator, neither party has provided much detail about the 
delays which occurred. 
So, Im satisfied that £30 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs M may have experienced because of any delay caused by Admiral handling and/or 
providing an outcome to the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman