DRN-4333119
The complaint
Mr W has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc turned down his claim for damage to his
van under his van insurance policy and that it provided a poor level of service prior to this.
Ive referred mainly to West Bay in this decision for ease, although I realise Mr W dealt with
West Bays claim handling agent and they issued the final response on his complaint on
behalf of West Bay.
What happened
Mr Ws van broke down in mid-November 2021 and he had to call out his roadside
assistance provider. Their operative overrode the fault and told him to take it to a garage to
have it checked and any necessary repairs carried out. Mr W took it to a garage who Ill refer
to as A. A investigated and said that something had contaminated the AdBlue tank. And they
said flushing out the tank and system could solve the problem or repairs might be needed.
Mr W claimed on his policy on 2 February 2022. West Bay allocated it to their repair network
agent to organise the repairs to Mr Ws van. It seems they tried to get two different repairers
to collect the van and provide an estimate for repairing it. However, these were body shops
and it seems they were either unwilling or unable to get involved. And then the matter seems
to have been complicated by the fact A wouldnt release Mr Ws van. In the end West Bay
declined Mr Ws claim on the basis any damage to his van wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr W complained to West Bay. When doing so he also mentioned he was having a problem
with A, as they were insisting he had to pay them £294 for investigating the problem with his
van and that they were storing it in a place where it was open to the elements.
West Bay issued a final response on Mr Ws complaint in May 2022. They said they werent
responsible for As actions. They did however accept theyd relied on the wrong policy
wording to turn down Mr Ws claim. They also accepted that their communication wasnt as
good as it should have been. They offered Mr W £150 for the poor service provided and said
theyd reconsider his claim if he could provide evidence to show how the AdBlue tank in his
van became contaminated.
Mr W wasnt happy with West Bays final response and asked us to consider his complaint.
When doing so he mentioned hed been without his van for some time and had been unable
to work normally as a painter and decorator. And he said that hed had to buy a run around
vehicle to use instead, which hed had to pay out for and that hed also had to pay to tax and
insure it.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. She said West Bays offer to
reconsider Mr Ws claim if he provided evidence of how his tank had been contaminated was
reasonable. However, she said West Bay should pay an extra £150 in compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused by the poor handling of Mr Ws claim. West Bay agreed
to pay the extra compensation. But Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said
he wanted her to consider the loss of earnings resulting from West Bays delay in dealing
with his claim.
Our investigator suggested to Mr W what he could provide for us to consider his claim for
loss of earnings, but it seems he was unable to obtain it. As he still wasnt happy, the
investigator put the case forward for an ombudsmans decision.
I established that Mr W had the AdBlue system on his van flushed out by A at a cost of 
£565.98. And that this solved the problem initially and he was able to drive his van, but the 
same fault code then re-appeared after five days. Hes said that he sold the van at the 
beginning of June 2022. He didnt have to pay any storage costs or the £294 A had asked 
for.
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. In the first I said West Bay should 
settle Mr Ws claim for the damage to his van caused by the contamination of the AdBlue 
tank and system. And that in addition to this they should pay him for the loss of use of his 
van for a period of 31 days from the begining of January 2022, plus the additional amount for 
distress and inconvenience suggested by the investigator. West Bay provided further 
comments in response to this decision. They highlighted the fact Mr W didnt report his claim 
to them until 2 February 2022. In view of this they didnt think my award of the loss of use of 
his van was appropriate. They also disagreed with my view that his van was damaged by an 
insured event. In my second provisional decision I maintained my view that Mr Ws van was 
damaged by an insured event and that West Bay should pay his claim for the damage to the 
AdBlue tank/system. However, I said I no longer thought Mr W should get anything for the 
loss of use of his van, but that he should geta further  £250 for the inconvenience of being 
without his own van for a period due to West Bays failure to gain control of and settle his 
claim. I gave both parties a further 14 days to comment on my second provisional.
Mr W has said he is disappointed with my second provisional decision. Hes said he had to 
make do with a car for a period of time as a result of West Bay not settling his claim, whilst 
still paying to insure and tax his van. And that he was due a courtesy van that he never got. 
And he doesnt see why his excess should be deducted when West Bay did nothing and 
never paid him anything in respect of his claim.
West Bay has said it doesnt agree with my second provisional decision. Theyve pointed out 
that if someone at A put something other than AdBlue in the tank of Mr Ws van then it would 
be for A to address this, as the vehicle was in their possession. Theyve added that even if 
they did accept that there was accidental damage to Mr Ws van, the flushing of the tank and 
system did not fix the problem and the van clearly had a mechanical or electrical fault. 
Theyve also suggested Mr Ws failure to report his claim until February prejudiced their 
position, as they did not have the opportunity to inspect his van. They do not consider they 
could have taken control of the claim as I suggested they should have done, because A 
would not release the vehicle to them. And theyve said if Mr W had reported the incident to 
them immediately theyd have moved his van to one of their approved repairers and 
diagnosed an electrical or mechanical fault and provided their position on the claim much 
sooner. 
West Bay have also pointed out that when Mr W sold his van he would have been provided 
with a refund of premium and a refund on the tax to offset against the cost of insuring his 
new vehicle. And they dont agree with my view that their poor handling of the claim caused 
him to be without a vehicle for longer than necessary. Overall, West Bay believe the £300 in 
compensation for the inconvenience they caused Mr W is enough. 
West Bay have also said that if they pay Mr Ws claim he will have a fault claim against his 
record as they are not likely to recover what they pay out on it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr W has said. However, Im satisfied that the additional £250 I have 
suggested in compensation for him being without his van is enough. I appreciate he had to 
make do with a car instead. But he didnt report his claim until February 2022 and by this 
time his van had already been off the road some time and with A. West Bay could have done 
more by liaising with A to gain the release of the van to one of their approved repairers, 
which would have meant Mr W got a courtesy van. But it seems Mr W was able to start 
working to some extent again by February as he had a replacement vehicle, albeit a smaller 
one than his van. And he did have the option to pay for the AdBlue tank/system on his van to 
be flushed out. Plus, it seems his van had an underlying electrical or mechanical fault, so I 
am not convinced that if West Bay had accepted his claim fairly quickly, his van would have 
been useable once theyd settled it. 
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration with the way West Bay handled his claim, but under the terms 
of his policy he has an excess to pay on any claim. And Ive awarded compensation 
separately for the distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced. 
Ive also noted West Bays comments, but they have not altered my view as to the fair and 
reasonable outcome of Mr Ws complaint. 
I agree Mr Ws van probably had an underlying electrical or mechanical fault and that A were 
most likely responsible for the damage to the AdBlue tank/system. But this does not alter the 
fact that this damage was most likely caused accidentally. And this means Mr W has a valid 
claim under his policy for the cost of putting this right irrespective of the fact his van had an 
underlying electrical or mechanical fault. I dont agree the fact Mr W reported his claim late 
prejudiced West Bays position; as I believe they should have been able to establish that    
Mr Ws van had been damaged accidentally without the need for them to move it to one of 
their approved repairers. In any event, I think if theyd had better control of the claim and 
liaised with A, they could have come to an agreement on the repairs needed. So it remains 
my view West Bay should pay Mr W £315.98 to settle his claim, plus interest as set out in my 
second provisional decision.
Ive noted what West Bay have said about Mr W selling his van. But he didnt do this until 
June 2022. And by this time West Bay had known about his claim for several months and 
still not agreed to settle it. So, it remains my view they should pay Mr W an additional £250 
to compensate Mr W for being without his van. 
I agree that if Mr W accepts this final decision and West Bay pay his claim they will be 
entitled to record a fault claim against his record in the first instance. Although, Id expect 
them to look into and consider the possibility of recovering their outlay from A. However, 
whether they are able to do so will depend on a number of factors and it may not be practical 
or possible. So Mr W should understand that if he accepts this decision a fault claim will go 
on and may remain on his record.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my previous provisional decisions I have decided to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and make West Bay do the following to put things right:
Pay him £315.98 in settlement of his claim, plus interest at 8% per annum simple 
from 6 May 2022 to the date of actual payment.Pay him £300 in compensation for general distress and inconvenience, less £150 if 
they have already paid him this amount.
Pay him a further £250 for the inconvenience and expense of being without his own 
vehicle.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc and order 
them to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman