DRN-4154796
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with her treatment by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) when her fixed rate 
mortgage product was due to end. BoS initially refused a new two-year fixed rate because 
there was less than two years left on the mortgage term. It also refused to extend the term of 
the mortgage in order to allow a new rate. BoS later agreed to extend the term of the 
mortgage and to a new fixed rate, but Ms T is unhappy that she paid BoSs Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) for a month before the new rate started, and she wants BoS to 
backdate the new rate.
What happened
In 2020, Ms T agreed to a fixed rate product on her interest-only mortgage with BoS. The 
product transfer offer dated October 2020 makes it clear that Ms T would pay a fixed interest 
rate of 2.09% until 31 January 2023, when the mortgage would revert to BoSs SVR, which 
was 4.55% at that time. The offer also confirmed the remaining term of the loan was four 
years and two months.
On 1 January 2023, BoS sent Ms T a letter confirming the fixed rate end date and what the 
new monthly payment would be, but Ms T says she didnt receive this until 18 January 2023 
due to a postal strike. A couple of days earlier, on 16 January 2023, Ms T had contacted 
BoS to discuss her mortgage and she was told she couldnt have a new fixed rate because 
there was less than two years remaining on the mortgage term.
On 19 January 2023, Ms T asked to extend the term of the mortgage in order to allow for a 
new rate, but BoS said it wouldnt agree to this because it didnt think it was affordable.
Ms T complained to BoS. In summary, she said: 
It hadnt given her enough notice to explore her options and take out another fixed 
rate product. She said she didnt receive its reminder letter until 18 January 2023, 
and it should have contacted her earlier. She also said shed been in touch with its 
End of Term (EOT) team several times to discuss her mortgage, but she wasnt 
made aware of the fixed rate end date.
She was unhappy BoS had initially refused to extend the term of the mortgage and 
also with the level of service she received when it was considering her request. 
The new rate didnt start until 1 March 2023, and she wanted BoS to backdate this to 
1 February 2023.
BoS issued a final response letter in February 2023. In summary, it said:
It felt it had given her sufficient information to review her options. It said the product 
transfer offer had confirmed when the fixed rate would end and the annual 
statements dated November 2021 and 2022 confirmed the term remaining on the 
mortgage and included a reminder to check her rate and also the Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) end dates, which it said coincided with the end of her fixed rate. 
Its EOT team wouldnt discuss Ms Ts product end date unless shed initiated that 
conversation. It also didnt think it was responsible for the delay in her receiving its 
letter dated January 2023. 
Ms T had been correctly told she couldnt extend the mortgage term. This was 
because she hadnt met its annual earned income requirement. However, it had 
agreed to a term extension to allow a new rate as a one-off exception to its policy. 
It didnt think it had acted incorrectly, so it wouldnt backdate the new rate to February 
2023.
It was going to pay her £40 because it didnt give her better service whilst it was 
considering her request. 
Unhappy with BoSs final response letter, Ms T referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he said he felt Ms T had been 
made aware of when both her mortgage term and fixed rate were due to end, and ultimately 
BoS isnt required to proactively inform customers of any new or better interest rates. He 
also felt BoS had acted fairly by allowing Ms T to extend the term of her mortgage and 
secure a new fixed rate product, and he didnt think BoS should backdate the new rate.
Ms T didnt accept the Investigators findings. In summary she said BoS would have known 
there was a postal strike which would likely delay her receipt of its reminder letter, and it 
could have sent this by email. She says had she received the reminder on time, she would 
have been able to get a new rate. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Ms Ts frustration at initially being told she was unable to secure a new fixed 
rate product. However, the shortest fixed rate product BoS offered was two years. This isnt 
uncommon; two years is the minimum duration of a fixed rate products for most lenders. Its 
ultimately up to lender to decide what products it offers, based on its own commercial 
judgement and risk appetite.
Here, Ms Ts mortgage had been due to end on 31 December 2024, so Im satisfied there 
was less than two years remaining on the term of her mortgage when she asked for a new 
rate on 16 January 2023. BoS simply didnt offer a fixed rate product that was suitable for  
Ms T at that time given the remaining term of the mortgage.Ms T says she was given short notice about the impending expiry of her fixed rate. This is 
because she didnt receive BoSs reminder letter until 18 January 2023. However, I dont 
think the expiry of the fixed rate should have come as a surprise to Ms T. I say this because 
the duration of the fixed rate was clearly set out in the product transfer offer dated October 
2020. Also, having reviewed the information given in the annual mortgage statements dated 
November 2021 and 2022, I consider that Ms T was in a position to know what rate she was 
paying and when this would end.
Also, even if BoSs letter dated January 2023 had arrived promptly, Ms T still wouldnt have 
been in a position to get a new rate at that time because there was less than two years 
remaining on the term of the mortgage. BoS has told us that it sends this letter to customers 
during the final month of a fixed term, and Im satisfied from the evidence that it has provided 
that it did that.  
For there to have been sufficient time remaining on the term of the mortgage for a new rate, 
this would need to have been agreed before the end of December 2022, but I havent seen 
any evidence that indicates Ms T asked for a new rate earlier than 16 January 2023. Its also 
worth noting that Ms T would have needed to end her existing product early to allow for the 
new product to span a minimum of two years, possibly incurring an ERC.
Theres also no requirement for a lender to proactively contact customers to let them know 
about new rates available.
Ive gone on to consider how BoS handled Ms Ts request to extend the term of the 
mortgage. BoS has explained that it initially declined Ms Ts request because it was one of 
its criteria at that time that Ms T needed to have a minimum annual earned income and Ms T 
didnt meet this requirement.
Ms T complained to BoSs about its decision, and it went on to agree to a term extension to 
allow for a new rate and it let Ms T know on 30 January 2023. However, because a new rate 
wasnt agreed in time for it to start from 1 February 2023, Ms Ts mortgage reverted to BoS 
SVR for February 2023 - which was more expensive. 
Ms T wants BoS to backdate the new rate to 1 February 2023, but I dont think that would be 
fair in the circumstances. Its unfortunate that a new rate wasnt agreed in time for it to start 
on 1 February 2023. But Ms T didnt ask for a term extension until 19 January 2023, and Im 
not satisfied that BoS took an unreasonable amount of time assessing her request.
Ive also noted that Ms T delayed accepting a new rate offered to her in early January 2023. 
BoSs contact notes detail her telling it:
She was trying to get a gauge on the market to determine if she thinks it could be worth 
looking at a new rate come April.
So, Im not persuaded that Ms T would have accepted a new rate in time for it to start on 1 
February 2023 had she been able to do this. 
I also understand Ms T was unhappy about the level of service that she received from BoS 
when it was considering her request. This included comments that were made to her about 
her buy to let property. Having considered this, Im satisfied that the award of £40 that BoS 
paid to Ms T for not providing better service fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused.I do appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Ms T was hoping for, and she will be 
disappointed with my decision. However, for the reasons that Ive explained, I wont be 
requiring BoS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman