DRN-2149667
The complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont let her change her commercial mortgage to a 
buy-to-let.
What happened
Ms W has a commercial mortgage with Lloyds taken to develop a property. She says that it 
was always her intention to switch to a buy-to-let mortgage. But Lloyds has unfairly declined 
her application. She says that her payments are much higher than they would be had it 
approved the switch.
Lloyds has issued a number of final response letters in relation to this matter in January 
2018, August 2018 and September 2019. Our investigator said we couldnt look at any 
points raised in those letters as they werent referred to us within six months of the date of 
the final response letters. But we could consider the points raised in May 2020.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms W responded to say that she had overlooked the deadline date. She said it had taken her 
from 2017 to finally get an appointment with Lloyds in 2019 and she was promised a switch 
to buy-to-let when she found a tenant. The payment was significantly lower than the 
payment on the commercial mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I cant look at
I was sorry to hear that this matter has been going on for a number of years. It has meant 
that Ms W has complained a number of times to Lloyds and it has issued a number of final 
response letters.
On 20 January 2018, Lloyds issued a final response letter that addressed whether it had 
followed up a request to change her commercial mortgage.
On 1 August 2018, Lloyds issued a final response that addressed that no one from Lloyds 
had been in contact with her and she didnt receive the previous final response letter.
On 30 September 2019, Lloyds issued a final response letter that addressed delays in 
getting a meeting set up to discuss switching to a buy-to-let, that Ms W was led to believe 
the application was approved as long as she got a tenant, that it didnt change the 
repayment date and that it had issued a formal demand for payment.
Ms W referred her complaint to us on 2 June 2020. As that is more than six months from the 
date of each of the above letters and as Lloyds hasnt consented to us looking at the 
complaint, then I am afraid it is out of time. Ms W hasnt given us any exceptional 
circumstances that prevented her complying with the time limits  and she has continued to 
deal with Lloyds throughput that period.
I note Ms W says she didnt receive the September 2019 final response. But our rules say 
the time limit starts from the date the letters were sent. I think it is more likely than not that 
the letters Lloyds have produced were sent and the letters were correctly addressed. So I 
dont have the power under our rules to consider the above complaint points.
Declined application
That leaves the declined application. Lloyds has set out its reasons for declining the 
application to switch from a commercial to a buy-to-let mortgage. The reason it has given is 
that there are a number of properties with different usages under the same title. So as things 
stood it couldnt finance those properties separately. This is reasonable and in line with 
normal banking practice.
Lloyds said that there is a commercial and residential element to the security. It was unable 
to offer buy-to-let mortgages for the residential element as the properties were newly built. It 
is for Lloyds to decide what sort of properties it is prepared to accept as security and on what 
basis. I wouldnt usually interfere in that. I cant say this was an unreasonable decision.
Lloyds has also said that if the title was split, the commercial element wouldnt be sufficient 
to support the commercial mortgage on its own. It pointed out the income from the 
commercial element wasnt enough to maintain the loan. I think this is a reasonable point for 
Lloyds to take into account.
Further, Lloyds says that the mortgage has been in arrears for prolonged periods and it will 
usually take that into account in deciding whether to offer finance. It is reasonable for a 
lender to look at past conduct to decide whether to offer new borrowing or to restructure 
existing borrowing. I think this is fair. 
I appreciate Ms Ws disappointment that Lloyds wont approve her application to switch to a 
buy-to-let mortgage. But I think it has considered her application fairly and has given reasons 
why it is not prepared to offer her the borrowing she wants. 
I accept that Lloyds may have told Ms W that refinancing to a buy-to-let was a possibility 
when she took out the loans  that may well have been the correct position at the time. But I 
dont consider that reasonably could have constituted an irrevocable offer of finance in the 
future. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman