DRN-2062120
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the way Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money has 
handled his credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt sent paper statements. But he agreed to the terms 
and conditions of the account which say statements will be made available online. 
These showed the account balance. As such Clydesdale wouldnt be expected to 
send paper statements as well.
Mr S was told and agreed to his accounts minimum payment being taken by a direct 
debit and Clydesdale didnt do anything wrong by doing so. It was Mr Ss 
responsibility to ensure any outstanding balance on the account was paid. And, if he 
wished to pay the full outstanding balance, he couldve amended this direct debit 
online. 
Clydesdale didnt make an error by not freezing the account interest when Mr S 
asked it to do so as it wasnt obliged to agree to his request.
As the investigator has said it also isnt our role to penalise Clydesdale or tell it to 
change its practices or procedures. 
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling and 
frustration, I dont think Clydesdale has done anything wrong and I dont think I can 
reasonably require it to do anything more or differently.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank PLC trading 
as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman