DRN-2908581
The complaint
Mr C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him and didnt carry out adequate 
affordability checks.
What happened
Mr C was provided with two loans by MoneyBoat in October 2020, the details are set out 
below. He had previously applied for a loan in 2017 but it doesnt appear that this was 
funded.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £800 6 15/10/2020 30/10/2020
2 £1,500 6 30/10/2020
MoneyBoat says that before loans are provided it carries out credit and affordability checks. 
It says that Mr C was required to provide accurate income and expenditure information and 
that based on the information it received the loan repayments were affordable. It says that it 
verified Mr Cs income and employment and increased the amount included for expenses 
based on the results of its credit check.
MoneyBoat says that Mr C repaid the first loan early and that it had worked with Mr C 
regarding the repayment of the second loan. It says Mr C should contact its collections 
department if the agreed repayment plan was unaffordable.
Mr C says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided. He says 
that although MoneyBoat said his income had been verified this wasnt true. He said 
MoneyBoat didnt get copies of his payslips and that it didnt confirm his employment as he 
hadnt been working at the organisation noted on his application form since 2016. He said 
MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided him with the loans.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that based on the circumstances 
apparent at the time of the loans it would have been proportionate for MoneyBoat to have 
asked for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. He 
didnt think the information gathered by MoneyBoat raised concerns that meant further 
verification was required.
Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that MoneyBoat hadnt carried out 
the verification checks it had claimed and so hadnt carried out the checks in line with its 
lending criteria.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the first loan was provided affordability and credit checks took place. I thought 
it reasonable that MoneyBoat relied on the information provided. 
The credit check showed some adverse information and I thought it reasonable that 
further checks would have taken place to ensure that lending to Mr C was 
sustainable. Having looked at bank statements Mr C provided I didnt think that had 
further checks taken place these would have shown the loan to have been 
unaffordable.
Mr C was in contact with MoneyBoat at end of October and asked about settling his 
first loan in order to get a larger advance of £1,500. It was explained he would need 
to repay the loan and then a new credit check would take place. This happened and 
given Mr C was able to repay the 15 October loan I didnt think that MoneyBoat 
shouldve been concerned about his financial situation at that time.
Mr C was provided with a loan for £1,500 on 30 October 2020. Again, I thought that 
further checks shouldve taken place. But I didnt think I had enough evidence to say 
that had these further checks happened MoneyBoat should have known the loan 
wouldnt have been affordable to Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional decision. He reiterated that his income and 
employment wasnt verified and that he hadnt worked for the company since 2016. He said 
he shouldnt have been provided with the loans and that a gesture of goodwill was required 
such as his outstanding balance being reduced or written off. He noted the comment in my 
provisional decision about his bank statements and said these werent provided to 
MoneyBoat and instead just to this service and then used against him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. 
I note the comments Mr C has made in response to my provisional decision and the 
concerns he has raised about the verification checks. However, in this case information 
about Mr Cs income and expenses was provided by Mr C and other sources and I think it 
was reasonable  especially in the early stages of the lending relationship  for this to be 
relied on. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Mr Cs credit check should have raised 
concerns for which further checks should have taken place. I note the point Mr C has made 
about his bank statements and I understand these werent made available to MoneyBoat. When carrying out checks there are a number of sources that a business can use, and in 
certain circumstances it may ask for copies of bank statements. This didnt happen in this 
case. However, as I think further checks would have been reasonable I have considered 
evidence that may have been provided if requested. Having done so based on what I have 
seen I do not find I have enough to say that further checks would have shown the loans to 
have been unaffordable. Therefore, I do not find I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint.
I understand Mr Cs second loan is still outstanding. MoneyBoat should work with Mr C in a 
positive way to arrange an affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman