DRN-1998786
The complaint
Ms F complains about a declined claim on a Home Insurance policy she held that was 
underwritten by Zurich Insurance PLC.
What happened
In 2015, Ms F noticed that she had some jewellery stolen from her home. At the time, she 
had a family member and their friend staying with her. Ms F didnt notice that the jewellery 
had been stolen immediately, but she says that she thinks it was the friend of the family 
member that had taken the jewellery.
Ms F reported the theft to Zurich in 2019. Zurich declined the claim because the theft didnt 
involve forcible or violent entry. It also said that it hadnt ever insured the property that Ms F 
was staying in at the time of the theft. But Zurich identified that it hadnt provided Ms F with a 
good level of service and so it offered her £100 to compensate her for this.
Ms F was unhappy with Zurichs response and so she came to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for Ms F. She thought that Zurichs decision to decline the claim was fair 
based on the policy terms and conditions.
Ms F disagreed with our investigator, she said that the policy terms werent clear to her. 
Because Ms F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it very clear that this decision is about the actions of Zurich and whether it 
was fair of it to decline the claim. Ms F has a different complaint with this service about the 
broker of the policy. I will not be considering any part of Ms Fs complaint about the broker in 
this decision. 
Id like to express my empathy for Ms Fs situation. I can appreciate that having personal 
items stolen would cause much upset, which is completely understandable. In reaching my 
conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Ms F has found 
herself in. 
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both 
parties have said. And I have to look to see if Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with Ms Fs claim  and I think it has.
Ms F was covered by this policy from 5 March 2015  4 March 2016. At the time the 
personal items were stolen, Ms F had moved address and wasnt living at the address stated 
on the policy documents. Based on what Ive seen, I cant see that Ms F updated her 
address with Zurich (Ms F thinks that she did do this, but I will cover this off later). Zurich has said that it declined Ms Fs claim under the below term in the policy  this term 
can be found on page 17 of the policy booklet:
You are not insured against loss or damage in the following circumstances:
Caused by theft unless it involves forcible and violent entry to or exit from a Building
Essentially, this means that Zurich declined the claim because Ms Fs home wasnt broken 
into for the items to be stolen  this is because they were likely taken by persons known to 
her living at her new address. But Zurich has also said that it had never insured the home 
that Ms F was staying in at the time of the theft, although this wasnt the basis on which it 
declined the claim. 
Ms F has since told us that the windows at the property could be removed from the outside. 
And so it could be that someone had entered the property that way  without causing 
notable damage. 
Ive thought about what Ms F has said carefully, but I dont think this changes the outcome. 
Zurich has assessed Ms Fs claim based on the information she gave it. This was that the 
personal items were stolen by someone living at the address. Ms F has also shown us a 
witness statement she made to the police from the time that supports this. For this reason, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to consider other possibilities as to how the personal items 
were taken, because this isnt the information that Zurich assessed the claim on. 
For the reasons stated above, I think Zurich has fairly declined the claim based on the terms 
of the policy. And so I wont be asking it to pay out the claim.
Ms F says she updated her address with the broker when she took out another policy with 
them. It isnt clear why the broker didnt update these details with Zurich. But even if it had 
done this, I still think Zurich would have declined the claim. Zurich has already explained that 
the reason it declined the claim was based on the policy terms Ive mentioned above, and 
not that it didnt insure the address on the policy documents. And so even if Zurich had 
amended the policy to show her new address, I still think it would have declined the claim.
Zurich has offered Ms F £100 because it didnt provide the level of service it would expect  
mainly that it didnt fully explain to Ms F why it had declined her claim. Given that the 
explanation as to why the claim was declined didnt impact the outcome itself, I think £100 is 
a fair amount to compensate Ms F for this. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms F, and I can understand how 
upsetting it must be to have items stolen, but I cant agree that Zurich has acted unfairly by 
declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman