DRN-1848382
 
Complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Miss A took out a credit card in 2004 online. She was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this card.
The PPI would have cost around 79p per £100 of the outstanding balance and would have 
paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Miss A was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss As complaint should be upheld. Barclays didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in April 2020 explaining why I didn't think Miss A's 
complaint about the mis-sale of PPI should be upheld. I have copied below my findings in 
the provisional decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they would like 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Neither Barclays or Miss A have provided 
anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
As I have not been provided with anything further to consider from either party, I have no 
reason to depart from my findings in the provisional decision and it follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint. I have copied my findings from the provisional decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
Having done that, Im currently intending not to uphold Miss As complaint. I will now explain 
why.First of all Ive considered whether Miss A would have been eligible for the policy. Based on 
Miss As age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Miss A was eligible.
Barclays had to make it clear to Miss A that the policy was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and so Ive thought carefully about what 
Miss A and Barclays have told us and looked at the documents provided to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been provided with information and screen shots relating to the online sales 
process. This showed that Miss A would have been provided with two equally clear options 
as to whether to take or refuse PPI. The credit agreement resulting from this application 
shows that Miss A had selected PPI.  
So I think its more likely that the PPI was presented as optional and was only added to the 
account because Miss A chose to take it out. 
Given that the sale took place online without any apparent involvement from a 
representative, I dont think Barclays recommended PPI to Miss A. This means they didnt 
have to take steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Miss A. 
But Barclays did have to give Miss A clear information so that she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular this would have been information 
about the costs/benefits and main exclusions in the policy. Its possible the information 
Barclaycard gave Miss A wasnt as clear as it should have been. But this in itself doesnt 
mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
would have put her off taking it out.
Our adjudicator thought that better information about the exclusions in the policy would have 
meant Miss A wouldnt have taken PPI out. This is because Miss A has told us that she 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. The policy excluded 
claims for pre-existing medical conditions. 
But I dont agree because I dont think better information about the exclusions relating to pre-
existing medical conditions would have put Miss A off taking this policy out. I will go on to 
explain why.
First of all it's unclear whether Miss A actually suffered from this condition. In one PPI 
questionnaire she doesnt mention any pre-existing medical condition but she does in 
another. 
However, even if Miss A did suffer from this condition, theres no evidence to suggest that it 
was of concern to her at the time of the sale. This is because it appears Miss As condition 
was well managed and although it appears she suffered from this condition from a young 
age, it doesnt appear that she ever needed to take time off work because of this condition. 
And I havent seen any evidence that the condition was such that she would have thought at 
the time of the sale that she may need to take time off work because of it  especially not the 
amount of time she would have needed to be off work in order to make a claim (14 days or 
more). Miss A could have claimed for other medical conditions and also if she lost her job. 
So in the absence of any further evidence about her condition from which I could conclude 
that its likely that Miss A would've thought she might have to take time off work because it, I dont think better information about the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
would have changed her mind about taking PPI out.
And I dont think further information about the costs/benefits and other exclusions/restrictions 
in the policy would have put her of taking it out either. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss As existing sick pay and would have 
done so for a much longer period of time. It would also have paid out for up to 12 
months if she lost her job.
 
Miss A didnt appear to have been affected by any other main exclusions and 
restrictions in the policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a 
successful claim under the policy.
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest PPI  was unaffordable to Miss A at the time 
of the sale.
 
Miss A could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont currently think Barclays mis-sold  Miss 
A this PPI policy.
 
But Barclays have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so they should have told Miss A about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Miss A, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays have paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC do not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC do have to pay back to Miss A any commission and profit share 
they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman