DRN-2274390
The complaint
Mr S complains about Vanquis Bank Limited and their decision to offer him a credit card.
What happened
In late 2017, Mr S applied for a credit card with Vanquis. This application was approved, and 
Mr S was given a £250 credit limit. This limit has not been increased or decreased since the 
application was approved.
Mr S stopped making payments to the account in December 2018. So, Vanquis issued a 
notice of default in April 2019. Mr Ss account was also passed to a third-party company but 
after no further payments were received, the account was passed back to Vanquis.
In March 2020, Mr S raised a complaint with Vanquis. He complained that theyd acted 
irresponsibly when approving his application for a credit card. And because of this, hed 
been forced into further financial difficulty. 
Vanquis responded and didnt agree. They felt theyd made the relevant checks and had 
approved his application fairly. They explained they took into consideration the information 
already held on Mr Ss credit file, including a previous default. And as they aim to provide 
customers with moderate means fair access to credit, they thought theyd been fair when 
offering a credit card with a low credit limit. So, they didnt think the needed to do anything 
more. They also felt theyd been fair when registering Mr Ss default and asked him to 
contact them to arrange a repayment plan. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Vanquis carried 
out the necessary checks shed expect and offered a credit limit that was reasonable given 
the information they had available. She also thought Vanquis acted fairly when reporting Mr 
Ss default after he stopped making payments. So, she didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be escalated but provided 
no further comments. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. Ive got no doubt it 
would be stressful and upsetting to find himself in a difficult financial situation. And I can 
understand why he would see Vanquis approval of his credit card application as a factor 
within that. But for me to say Vanquis have done something wrong, Id need to see they 
failed to complete relevant and proportionate checks that ensure Mr S was able to repay the 
account. Or that they failed to consider information Mr S provided them regarding his 
financial situation at the time the application was approved. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Its important to note there isnt a set number of checks a lender needs to complete when 
approving a credit application. Ive had to consider whether the checks Vanquis made, and 
the information these checks returned were reasonable and proportionate to the application 
they approved, and the limit they provided.
Vanquis have provided me with the information that had available to them when they 
approved Mr Ss application. This included his yearly income, his employment status, his 
outstanding debts and information from his credit file. 
This showed Mr S to have a yearly income of £20,280.00 from full time employment. And it 
showed he has outstanding debts of £2,000 and a default amount worth £2,400. The 
information also showed it had been 12 months since the previous default and that there 
were no county court judgements (CCJ) registered against him. So, Ive considered 
whether there was enough information here to suggest Mr S was in financial difficulty, or that 
the application should be declined. And I dont think there was.
Although there was a previous default, I dont think this in itself would be enough for Vanquis 
to reject the application. The default was registered 12 months beforehand, meaning there 
was a period of time where Mr Ss circumstances couldve improved. And as Mr S was now 
applying for further credit, I think this suggested to Vanquis that this was the case. 
In their response to Mr Ss complaint, Vanquis explained as a business, they aim to provide 
customers with moderate means the access to credit where it may not be available 
elsewhere. So, they explained that information such as previous defaults does not always 
lead to an automatic decline of an application. But that its considered as part of a limit that 
may be approved.
And Ive seen that Vanquis offered Mr S a modest credit limit of £250. And this limit was 
never increased. And after the application was approved, Mr S managed his account 
reasonably for almost a year with him making payments above and beyond the minimum 
amount on several occasions. Im aware Mr S was in financial difficulty at the time, which led 
to him stopping payments to the account. But I cant see Mr S made Vanquis aware of this. 
And because of how he managed his account, I dont think there was any information to 
suggest to Vanquis this was the case. And as Vanquis never attempted to increase Mr Ss 
limit above the original amount, I cant say they did anything wrong that added to his 
financial difficulties.
So, I think the checks Vanqius made were proportionate and provided them with enough 
information to make their decision to approve the application with a modest credit limit of 
£250 was a fair one. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
Im also aware Mr S is unhappy with the impact the default Vanqius made has had on his 
credit file. But Vanquis have a responsibility to report the way Mr S manages his account 
accurately. And Ive seen Mr S cancelled his direct debit and stopped making payments 
without any warning to Vanquis. And since then, I cant see Mr S has contacted Vanquis to 
arrange any form of payment plan to clear his outstanding debt. So, I cant say Vanquis 
acted unfairly when issuing the notice of default and reporting this to the credit reference 
agencies.Its good to see Vanquis offered Mr S the chance to contact them to arrange a repayment 
plan in their final response. As they are aware of Mr Ss financial difficulties, I would expect 
them to act positively and sympathetically towards these circumstances and arrange a 
repayment plan that is affordable. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman