DRN-3368997
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she obtained through a hire agreement with ALD Automotive 
Limited (ALD) was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car.
What happened
Miss H obtained a new car using a hire agreement with ALD in April 2021. A couple of 
months later she reported a fault which affected the media system, phone calls, sat nav and 
the engine management lights. She also said the automatic brakes werent working.
The supplying garage couldnt solve the problem, so Miss H complained to ALD. It said the 
faults were caused by a known software issue and that the manufacturer was working to fix 
it. It said there were no known issues with the automatic braking system, but that the 
supplying garage was happy to investigate further.
ALD said Miss Hs car could be updated with the new software once it was released and that 
it would refund one months rental as a gesture of goodwill.
But it also accepted there had been a delay in fixing the issue and that it would accept 
Miss Hs rejection of the car if she preferred. It said it would refund her £598.10 if she 
wanted to reject the car.
Our investigator recommended that rejection was the fairest resolution to the complaint. He 
thought ALD should end the agreement and collect the car; provide a pro-rata refund of the 
advance rental, plus interest; and refund 10% of the monthly payments made plus interest. 
But he thought Miss H should still pay for any end of contract charges, including the excess 
mileage charge.
ALD didnt agree. It said it had offered to accept Miss Hs rejection of the car, but she hadnt 
agreed. And it said the investigators recommended refund was outside of the usage 
charges set out in the agreed contract terms.
Miss H said she was continuing to make the monthly payments, with no use of the car.
My provisional decision
I broadly agreed with the investigators conclusion but was minded to make some small 
changes to how hed recommended the complaint was resolved. So I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties a final opportunity to comment. I said:
Both parties agree there is a fault with the car and that it was not of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Im pleased ALD has agreed to accept Miss Hs 
rejection of the car. The only matter still in dispute is how much ALD should 
reimburse Miss H.
Having considered this carefully, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the 
investigator.
ALD should terminate the agreement, at no further cost to Miss H. Im aware Miss H 
has exceeded the contractual mileage on a pro-rata basis and, under the terms of the 
agreement, would be due to pay an excess mileage charge of around £90. I think this 
charge should be waived.
ALD should arrange to collect the car at a convenient time for Miss H.
Miss H made an advance payment of £1,178.84. This payment was for the hire of the 
car over the term of the agreement and has the effect of reducing the monthly 
payments. Its fair that this payment is refunded, on a pro-rata basis so that Miss H 
doesnt pay for the period which she wont be hiring the car for, plus 8% simple 
interest per year on the unused portion from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Its fair that Miss H pays for the use shes had of the car. I dont find that the fault with 
the car made it unroadworthy or prevented Miss H from driving it. Shes told us shes 
not really been using the car, but I think thats because shes aware shes exceeded 
the contractual mileage. But I accept the fault would have affected her enjoyment of 
the car and any engine warning lights may have been worrying. I think the 
investigators recommendation that ALD should refund 10% of the monthly payments 
made, plus interest, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The fault with the car will have caused Miss H some distress and inconvenience. But 
as she will not need to pay the excess mileage charge, I think this fairly compensates 
her.
The agreement should be recorded as settled on Miss Hs credit file or removed 
altogether.
Neither party had any further comment in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. ALD Automotive Limited should:
1. Terminate the agreement, at no further cost to Miss H. Any excess mileage charges 
should be waived.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Miss H and at a convenient time for her.
3. Refund the advance payment of £1,178.84 on a pro-rata basis so that Miss H doesnt 
pay for the period which she wont be hiring the car for, plus 8% simple interest per year 
on the refund from the date it was paid to the date of settlement *.
4. Refund 10% of the monthly payments made, plus 8% simple interest per year from the 
date the payment was made to the date of the refund. *5. The agreement should be recorded as settled on Miss Hs credit file or removed 
altogether. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ALD Automotive Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. ALD Automotive Limited must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman