DRN-3221786
The complaint
Mr C complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited wrongly recorded a coronavirus 
payment deferral as missed payments on his credit file. This caused him delay and 
additional expense in taking a new mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr C had a mortgage with Kensington. Because of the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on 
him, he requested a payment deferral.
At the start of the pandemic, the regulator told mortgage lenders to offer customers payment 
deferrals of up to six months. During the period of deferral, no payments would need to be 
made  though they would need to be made up later  and lenders were told not to report 
the deferral as missed payments on borrowers credit files. An account already in arrears 
could continue to be reported as being in arrears  but should not show a worsening status.
Unfortunately, Kensington reported that Mr C had missed payments for the duration of his 
payment deferral. This meant that his credit file showed that he was in arrears.
Mr C wanted to sell his property and buy a new one, for which he would need a new 
mortgage. Because of the missed payment markers, he found it very difficult to obtain a new 
mortgage. He complained to Kensington and it eventually removed the late payment 
markers.
Mr C complained to us. He said that it had taken a very long time to get Kensington to 
remove the markers, and he couldnt get a new mortgage until it did. He said that as a result 
his move had nearly fallen through, and he had months of worry. And by the time he was 
able to go ahead, the governments stamp duty holiday window had ended. So, he says, he 
had to pay stamp duty on his new purchase  which, but for Kensingtons mistake, he would 
not have had to pay.
Our investigator thought that Kensington should not have put the markers on Mr Cs credit 
file, and had unreasonably delayed in removing them. He said that Kensington should pay 
Mr C £750 compensation for the worry and experience. It should refund the costs he had 
incurred in subscribing to a credit reference agency to check his file, as well as additional 
legal costs. And it should repay the stamp duty Mr C had to pay on his purchase.
Kensington accepted that it was at fault, and agreed to pay the compensation and Mr Cs 
additional costs. But it didnt accept that it should also pay the stamp duty. It said that by the 
time the markers were removed, there was still time for Mr C to complete his purchase within 
the window, and it wasnt responsible for any other delays which meant he couldnt.
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out above that Kensington accepts that it was at fault here, and agreed with the 
investigators recommendation that it pay Mr C £750 compensation, together with the 
additional costs he incurred. But it didnt accept that it should also refund his stamp duty bill 
 as that is the remaining area still in dispute, thats what Ill focus on in this decision.
The stamp duty holiday was introduced by the government to help the housing market 
recover from the effects of its shutdown in the first lockdown in 2020.
From 8 July 2020 to 30 June 2021, the stamp duty nil rate band  the range of property 
prices in which no stamp duty was payable  was increased to £500,000. The nil rate band 
was then reduced to £250,000 from 1 July 2021 to 30 September 2021, reverting to the 
previous limit of £125,000 from 1 October 2021.
In the run up to the covid-19 pandemic, Mr C had separated from his former wife. He was in 
arrears on his mortgage with Kensington, but was reducing the arrears month by month 
through an agreed plan. He had not missed any payments since early 2018.
At the start of the pandemic, Mr Cs income was affected, and he took a six month payment 
deferral.
Mr C decided to sell his existing property and buy a new one with his new partner. He had a 
buyer for his existing property and went to see a mortgage broker to discuss applying for a 
new mortgage.
As part of this process, he checked his credit file and found that Kensington had reported the 
payment deferral as missed payments with increasing arrears. He says that his broker 
advised him that this would make it impossible for him to get a new mortgage.
Kensington agreed to remove the markers in November 2020, and says it did so in 
December 2020. It says this left enough time for Mr C to complete on his new purchase by 
the end of June 2021, and therefore its not responsible if it in fact took longer than that.
It sent Mr C an email on 26 November 2020 confirming that it had agreed to correct his 
record, and said it could take up to 12 weeks to be reflected on your credit file.
However, its clear that in fact the corrections did not happen then, or within 12 weeks. Mr C 
has provided copies of his credit files showing that errors were still showing in March 2021  
and in the case of one of the agencies, later than that. He was in contact with staff at 
Kensington still trying to resolve this on his behalf as late as May 2021. His credit files had to 
be changed more than once before they showed correct information.
So while it does seem likely that Kensington first attempted to correct Mr Cs credit file on 
4 December 2020, those corrections were not effective.
Kensington hasnt told us exactly what corrected date it gave the agencies in December 
2020. So its possible that it told the agencies the correct information, but the delay in 
correcting it  and replacing the errors with further errors  was the fault of the agencies.
However, on balance, I dont think thats likely. Its unlikely that all three agencies would 
independently make much the same errors; its more likely that they were all given the same 
information by Kensington.
And even if there were errors by the agencies, in my view that doesnt change the fact that Kensington is ultimately responsible for what went wrong here. If it hadnt wrongly reported 
Mr Cs payment deferral as arrears in the first place, none of what happened later would 
have happened at all. Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to hold 
Kensington fully responsible for what went wrong here  and the consequences that flow 
from it.
Putting things right
When Mr C first raised this issue with Kensington, in mid-2020, it accepted it had made an 
error and offered £300 compensation. But it took many more months for the error to be put 
right properly.
In that time, Mr C had to spend much time trying to resolve this issue, at considerable 
inconvenience. He and his new partner had to delay moving to their new property and trying 
to start a family. He had to resolve matters with his former wife  who held this mortgage 
jointly  since he had undertaken in the divorce to be responsible for the mortgage. 
All of this caused Mr C considerable distress and inconvenience over many months, and Im 
satisfied £750 compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
I also think that Kensington should  subject to Mr C providing evidence of these costs  
reimburse the additional expenses Mr C was put to. This includes subscriptions to the three 
main credit reference agencies between July 2020 and May 2021, as well as legal costs 
incurred in resolving matters with his ex-wife through solicitors. 
Our investigator also said that Kensington should reimburse the stamp duty Mr C paid. 
Kensington didnt agree about that, because it said it corrected the records in December 
2020, and Mr C therefore had time to complete his sale and purchase by July 2021.
But as Ive explained above, I dont agree that Kensington had resolved matters by 
December 2020. Ive seen the evidence of his credit files Mr C has provided, Ive said 
Kensington is responsible for what appeared on them, and Im satisfied that Mr C wasnt 
able to start progressing things until March 2021.
He applied for the new mortgage in March 2021, and began to progress the sale of his old 
property and the purchase of a new one. Contracts were exchanged and the sale completed 
in August 2020. This is not an unreasonable timescale for a mortgage application and 
property purchase, and Im satisfied that Mr C couldnt reasonably have been expected to 
complete it by 30 June 2021. 
In my view, Kensington was at fault here. It mis-recorded entries on Mr Cs credit file. It 
delayed in correcting them. That delay meant that Mr Cs mortgage application was made  
and sale completed  around four months later than it otherwise would have done. That was 
enough to put Mr C outside the stamp duty window  and therefore Kensington is 
responsible for the extra costs he had to pay.
As his property purchase was in the £250,000 to £500,000 band, he therefore had to pay 
stamp duty that he would not have had to pay had he been able to complete sooner. In my 
view, since the delay is a direct consequence of Kensingtons mistake, its fair that it 
reimburses the stamp duty paid.
Finally, Mr C has also said that he had to apply for a new mortgage with a specialist lender, 
paying a higher interest rate than he might otherwise have had to do, because of 
Kensingtons mistake.Ive considered what hes said about this. But Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold 
Kensington responsible for this.
Mr Cs Kensington mortgage had been in arrears for several years. Before he took a 
payment deferral, he had been in a payment arrangement since 2018, paying his full 
monthly payment plus a contribution to the arrears. By March 2020, he was the equivalent of 
four months in arrears.
Had Kensington treated the payment deferral correctly, and Mr C been able to apply for a 
mortgage in late 2020 as he planned, he would have had to declare that he was in, or had 
just come out of, a payment deferral. And his credit file would have shown that he was four 
months in arrears and in a payment arrangement.
Im satisfied, from my knowledge of the mortgage market, that his choice of lender would as 
a result have been restricted in much the same way as it was in 2021. In other words, even if 
Kensington had done nothing wrong, he would always have had to go to a specialist lender 
and pay a higher interest rate. It follows that Kensington is not responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
Reimburse the costs of Mr Cs subscriptions to the credit reference agencies 
between July 2020 and May 2021, subject to Mr C providing evidence of the 
payments made. Kensington should add simple annual interest of 8%* running from 
the date Mr C made each payment to the date of refund;
Reimburse the legal fees Mr C incurred in engaging via solicitors with his former wife 
about their credit files, subject to Mr C providing evidence of the costs incurred. 
Kensington should add simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date Mr C 
made each payment to the date of refund;
Reimburse the stamp duty of £4,497. Kensington should add simple annual interest 
of 8%* running from 20 August 2021 to the date of refund; 
Pay Mr C a further £450 compensation in addition to the £300 already offered  
making £750 in all. 
*If Kensington considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so but should give Mr C confirmation of the deduction so that he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC, if hes entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman