DRN-2573560
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted her personal loan account unfairly. 
What happened
In 2017 Miss W entered into a personal loan agreement with Lloyds.
On 15 October 2019, Lloyds sent Miss W a default notice as her account was two months in 
arrears.
On 22 October 2019, Miss W visited her local branch to discuss her account. During the visit 
she explained she was pregnant and needed to reduce her payments. A consultant at the 
branch completed an income and expenditure review with her, and then called Lloyds 
collections team to explore her options.
The adviser in the collections team didnt agree a reduced payment plan, as Miss Ws 
income and expenditure indicated that she had a monthly income deficit. However, a thirty 
day hold was applied to her account and interest and charges were frozen. She was also 
asked to get back in contact once the hold had ended. Unfortunately, Miss W didnt do this, 
and the arrears continued to accrue.
 
In January 2020, Lloyds sent Miss W a letter that said the terms of the default notice hadnt 
been met. So, they would register a default with the credit reference agencies, unless she 
contacted them to discuss her account and clear the arrears. As Miss W didnt do this, a 
default was registered in February 2020.
Miss W has said she doesnt feel shes been treated fairly, and the default should be 
removed. This is because she told Lloyds she was struggling, and she wasnt warned about 
the default notice when she contacted them in October. Shes also said she feels shes been 
punished because she was pregnant. 
In response to the complaint, Lloyds said they didnt do anything wrong by defaulting      
Miss Ws account. This was because by the time they registered the default with the credit 
reference agencies, her account was in substantial arrears. However, to say sorry for not 
highlighting the default notice during the conversation in October, they offered her £50 
compensation.
Our investigator then reviewed the complaint and said she thought Lloyds had treated     
Miss W fairly. 
As Miss W didnt agree, Ive considered the complaint afresh
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss W has had such a difficult time recently. I can see that the events of 
the last few years have had an impact on her emotionally and financially.
Miss W has said she feels Lloyds punished her because she was pregnant. If this were the 
case it would mean that they had discriminated against her under the Equality Act 2010. 
However, while Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law  this service is unable to make legal findings of discrimination. 
So Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
When Miss W notified Lloyds of her financial difficulties, they had a responsibility to respond 
in a positive and sympathetic way. Im satisfied they did this, as they reviewed her income 
and expenditure to help them understand her circumstances. This is something Id 
reasonably expect Lloyds to do to help all of their customers, if they are struggling financially 
- regardless of the reason . 
The review identified that Miss W had a negative disposable income and couldnt afford to 
make any payments. As such, it wasnt appropriate for Lloyds to have agreed a reduced 
payment plan, she couldnt maintain. Im therefore satisfied the thirty day hold was a positive 
response, as it meant interest and charges were frozen. It also gave Miss W the opportunity 
to review her circumstances and get some free independent financial advice. 
I appreciate Miss W feels Lloyds could have done something more during this conversation, 
which would have stopped her account defaulting. However, as she had a negative 
disposable income, and because she indicated that her financial situation was due to 
deteriorate further, Im satisfied this wasnt the case. I note Lloyds did consider escalating 
her account to recoveries, however, this would only have meant her account was defaulted 
faster. 
I appreciate Miss W became unwell after the conversation in October, and it is for this 
reason she didnt contact Lloyds again until after the default was registered. However, as 
Lloyds werent aware of this, they couldnt do anything more to help. Lloyds were also 
required to report an accurate reflection of her payment history to the credit reference 
agencies, and her lack of contact didnt change this. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) have said they would normally expect a default 
to be registered when a customer is between three and six months behind with their 
payments. As Miss Ws account was more than three months in arrears by the time Lloyds 
registered the default, this means Im satisfied they acted reasonably.
Im also satisfied Lloyds took sufficient steps to warn Miss W that her account was due to be 
defaulted and gave her a fair opportunity to bring her account back up to date. Miss W has 
said she didnt receive the default notice or any of the payment reminder letters, but Im 
satisfied they were sent to the correct address. There was also no requirement for Lloyds to 
send this correspondence to Miss W by recorded post, and Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest there was a problem with the postal service in Miss Ws area.
 
Ive also considered what would have happened, if the default notice had been highlighted to 
Miss W during the call in October, but I dont think this is likely to have made a difference. 
This is because as Ive explained, unfortunately Miss W wasnt in a position to make payments or clear the arrears. So, Im satisfied this isnt sufficient grounds for concluding 
Lloyds should now remove the default.
In light of the above, Im satisfied Lloyds responded to Miss Ws financial difficulties in a 
positive and sympathetic way. They also acted reasonably by registering the default and  
didnt treat her differently or unfairly because she was pregnant. 
I do accept that the collections advisers oversight in October caused Miss W some upset. 
However, as Lloyds have already offered Miss W £50 compensation to say sorry, I think this 
is a reasonable resolution to this issue. Lloyds should therefore pay Miss W £50 
compensation if they havent already done so
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman