DRN-3415194
The complaint
Mrs B brings a complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc because it has refused to pay a claim 
she made under her term assurance policy. She is represented by her husband.  
What happened
Mrs B took out her policy in February 2006. It offered her level cover of £25,000 until 2021. 
In 2020, Mrs B was sadly diagnosed with a type of breast cancer and consequently had a 
mastectomy. She made a claim to HSBC for critical illness benefit in September 2020.  
HSBC declined the claim in December 2020. It explained that Mrs Bs diagnosis of ductal 
carcinoma in-situ (DCIS) was a type of cancer not covered by her policy terms. It had 
obtained medical evidence from Mrs Bs treating pathologist which confirmed DCIS.   
Mrs B complained. She said that she felt HSBC ought to show discretion where she had 
needed to undergo a mastectomy, because she did so with the intent to prevent her cancer 
invading surrounding tissue. 
HSBC wasnt minded to change its view on the claim. So, Mrs B referred her complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. She felt HSBC had fairly 
refused to pay the claim.  
She said the policy wording applying to Mrs Bs condition showed that cover was not 
provided for non-invasive cancers or cancers in situ  and DCIS was one such cancer. Mrs 
Bs medical evidence had shown that there was no invasion of tissue at the time of her 
diagnosis and therefore she felt HSBC had rightly concluded the claim wasnt payable.  
Mr B said Mrs B did not agree with the complaint outcome. He noted that:
they have spoken to brokers who have confirmed that HSBCs policy wording is not 
consistent with other providers;
it is also unfair that the claim can be refused on the exclusion, yet without treatment 
the cancer could spread;
Mrs B took out the policy to cover the specific circumstances she is now in;
she was acutely aware of this as a family member had suffered the same condition;
she understood that her type of cancer would be covered;
the action taken with her treatment was to prevent a far more serious outcome;
they wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
HSBC didnt have any further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Mrs Bs diagnosis and I send both her and Mr B my best wishes.  
Though I know this wont be the answer theyve hoped for, I am also unable to uphold this 
complaint. For the reasons Ill explain, I believe HSBC has fairly refused the claim. 
I know Mrs B feels strongly that she took this policy out to cover her in circumstances akin to 
the position she is in now. And I dont doubt that. But, this is not a complaint about the sale 
of the policy  if Mrs B is unhappy about what was put to her in 2006 then concerns 
regarding the sale of the policy would need to be lodged with HSBC as a fresh complaint. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if HSBC 
has acted within the policy terms. In respect of the critical illness of cancer, the policy 
wording said:
Cancer
A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant 
cells and invasion of tissue. The term cancer includes Leukaemia and Hodgkin's disease 
but the following are excluded:
All tumours which are histologically described as pre-malignant, as non-
invasive or as cancer in situ [my emphasis].
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score 
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least TNM classification T2 NO MO
All forms of lymphoma in the presence of any Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
Kaposi's sarcoma in the presence of any Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma.
The histology report carried out for Mrs B in October 2020 confirmed that she had a 
malignant in-situ cancer with the report stating no when asked if the cancer was an 
invasive carcinoma. It is also written expressly that there is no evidence of invasion.  
That description falls within the exclusion, as Ive set out in bold above. So HSBC is correct 
when it says a claim cant be paid. I dont think its unfair to reach that conclusion as HSBC 
is only contractually obliged to pay a claim when policy wording has been met; and I dont 
think the policy wording itself is unjust.
I say that because the Association of British Insurers (ABI) issues industry guidance on 
critical illness policies. These periodic Statements of Best Practice are for insurers to use 
when offering such cover, and they give model wordings including exclusions. In the guide 
applicable at the time Mrs B took out her policy (August 2004), the model wording proposed 
is exactly as above  HSBC has used the exact wording in its offering. It should have done 
so, because the guidance requires insurers offering these policies to include cover for 
cancer, heart attack and stroke as a minimum. Otherwise, insurers are free to decide on the 
conditions and exclusions applicable to their products. 
Though I release Mr B has suggested otherwise, I hope Mr and Mrs B can understand why I 
dont think Mrs Bs policy is out of step with the industry where HSBC has utilised the 
recommended wording. Statements have been issued by the ABI every few years, updating 
with changes in medical expertise. So it could be the case that the brokers Mr B spoke to 
were referring to more recent offerings by insurers now, not what was open to Mrs B in 2006.  
I also recognise that without agreeing to undergo difficult surgery, Mrs Bs situation couldhave been left to get worse, and led to a claim before 2021. But I wouldnt reasonably expect 
that Mrs B would allow that or act contrary to medical advice in order to meet a claim. 
Critical illness policies are set up to cover the most severe instances of diagnosed illnesses 
or events. That an illness may sadly become more severe doesnt oblige a claim to be paid 
in advance. The correct position is for a business to assess a claim on the evidence at the 
relevant date, against the agreed wording. HSBC has done so, and sadly Mrs Bs 
circumstances fall within the exclusion defined above.  
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I dont uphold this complaint. HSBC has acted fairly in 
declining her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman