DRN-3357101
The complaint
Miss U complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money she paid for skin 
care products she cant use.
What happened
On 27 November 2020, Miss U paid £555.66 for some skin care products from a company Ill 
call Business A. She then paid £200 for a consultation with a skin care professional in 
December 2020. On 19 February 2021, Miss U paid £178 for some more skin care products. 
She used her Santander debit card to make all three purchases.
Miss U has explained that shes clinically vulnerable and was advised to shield during the 
early stages of the pandemic. As a result, she didnt use the skin care products until the 
summer of 2021, when she was no longer required to shield. Miss U says she felt a burning 
sensation when she first used the products, which lasted for between two and three weeks.
Miss U called Business A, which would appear to also be the manufacturer of the product, to 
ask for a refund. It refused.
Miss U then contacted Santander to ask it to refund the money as a chargeback. Santander 
told Miss U it couldnt raise a valid chargeback claim because it had been more than 
120 days since shed purchased the products.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Miss U referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Santanders decision not to attempt a chargeback claim 
was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
Miss U disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from the retailers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services shes paid for, or the goods are faulty or 
defective. It isnt a legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to 
recover the money through chargeback. The process is subject to the rules of the scheme  
which, in this case, are set by Visa  and strict time limits apply. A chargeback thats raised 
late will be deemed invalid.
The card provider isnt required to raise a chargeback claim just because a consumer asks 
for one  although I consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted when theres 
a reasonable prospect of success.
Here, the card provider, Santander, did not attempt a chargeback claim when Miss U 
contacted it. It said it was too late for a chargeback to be raised.
The Visa rules say a card provider may initiate a chargeback when the goods are not as 
described or defective  but it must start the process within 120 days of either the 
transaction date or the date the consumer received the goods.
Miss U made the last purchase on 19 February 2021 and received the skin care products a 
short time later. As she didnt contact Santander until July 2021, it was too late for a 
chargeback claim to be raised for this or any of the earlier transactions. I know Miss U will be 
disappointed but Visas time limits are strict. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Santander not to attempt a chargeback claim when there wasnt a 
reasonable prospect of success. Regrettably, Miss Us reasons for not getting in touch with 
Santander sooner dont make a difference in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman