DRN-2005576
The complaint
Mr R complains that Close Brothers Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr R acquired a vehicle costing £9,588 funded by a deposit of £958 and the 
balance with a conditional sale agreement. It was some six years old and had done 60,000 
miles.  
Within three months the vehicle broke down and was recovered and taken to a garage 
where a problem with the control unit was diagnosed and repaired. It broke down again in 
October 2019 and this time he was told the gearbox needed to be replaced. Later he noticed 
a problem with the clutch and he was advised this also needed to be replaced. 
When he contacted the dealer which had sold the car he says they told him it was out of 
warranty and to contact Close Brothers. It was unwilling to assist and he paid £1,030 to 
repair the control unit and £2,283 to replace the gearbox. Mr W was without the vehicle for 
six weeks. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. Initially she suggested Close Brothers pay for 
both repairs. 
Close Brothers responded and said Mr R had said that the gearbox was damaged as a 
result of a bolt coming away from the driveshaft and damaging the gearbox. It said he would 
not have been able to drive the vehicle for 6,000 mile if it had been faulty at the point of sale. 
It also said that the repairs had been carried out at a third-party garage without it having any 
input.
Our investigator revised her view and recommended that Close Brothers pay for the initial 
repair. It disagreed and said the invoice didnt show how many miles Mr R had done at that 
point. He hadnt raised the problem with Close Brothers despite having been in contact 
about his monthly payments. It wasnt given the opportunity to address the fault and by 
having it repaired at his own expense he had accepted responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Where necessary and / or appropriate, I reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
It is unfortunate that Mr R didnt contact the business when he first encountered problems 
and sought to deal with them himself. However, he did do so and I have to consider on the 
evidence available whether the control unit fault was likely to have been present at the point 
of sale. 
I have taken note of Mr R telling this service that he was told by the dealer that the vehicle 
was out of warranty. It should have been aware that Mr R could have taken the matter up 
with Close Brothers. Mr R has been straightforward in his dealing with both this service and 
Close Brothers and I find his testimony persuasive. He as not sought to make unrealistic or 
extravagant claims. I think it reasonable to presume that he was unaware that he could turn 
to Close Brothers for assistance even when he was struggling to make payments caused by 
the problems with the vehicle.
I can also see that the dealers approach to the issue was good reason to seek an 
alternative garage to carry out the repairs. I believe this was done in god faith by Mr R and I 
havent reached the conclusion that he accepted responsibility in taking this course of action.
Putting things right
The vehicle was relatively old, but hadnt done an excessive mileage. I believe it would be 
reasonable to expect the control unit to last longer than 60,000 miles and with the limited 
information available I consider it reasonable to conclude that the failure wasnt a matter of a 
sudden failure, but was something which had been building up and therefore more likely 
than not it was present at the point of sale. Therefore, on the balance of probabilities I think it 
fair to conclude that the fault was present at the point of sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers Limited to pay Mr 
R £1030, plus 8% simple interest from the date he paid this to the date it is repaid. It should 
also pay £140.58 to reflect the loss of use for three weeks when repair work to the control 
unit was being carried out. Finally, it should pay him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman