DRN-2480498
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Sainsburys Banks Plc didnt proceed with her chargeback claims 
against a travel business and that it provided poor customer service in dealing with her 
claim.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs K purchased five flight tickets through an agent, G. The cost of the five 
tickets was £1,700 and Mrs K paid for them using her Sainsburys credit card.
After booking, Mrs K noticed a mistake in the spelling of her husbands name. She contacted 
the agent who said a new ticket could be re-issued for which it would charge £50 plus an 
admin fee of £19. Mrs K agreed to this but says she was charged more and the final cost 
was £114.
In addition, when Mr Ks ticket was re-issued it didnt include any booked luggage. Mrs K 
says that the original booking in March 2019 included hold luggage for three of the 
passengers, including her husband, in addition to the standard hand luggage. The re-issued 
ticket didnt include the hold luggage with the result that, at the airport, shed had to pay 58 
euros to book it in even though shed already paid for this.
When Mrs K realised that her son wouldnt be able to travel on the dates booked, she 
contacted the agent to ask to transfer the ticket or get a refund, which she understood was 
allowed under the airlines terms and conditions. However, the agent declined saying it 
wasnt possible to transfer the ticket and it couldnt be cancelled as it was non-refundable.
Mrs K complained to the agent but it didnt reply so she complained to Sainsburys and asked 
it to refund her the cost of the ticket, the extra cost of changing her husband ticket and the 
58 euros shed had to pay.
Sainsburys didnt uphold Mrs Ks claim. It said as Mrs K had booked with the agent and not 
the airline, it had to look at the agents terms and conditions. These didnt allow for the 
tickets to be transferred or refunded so the agent hadnt done anything wrong and it couldnt 
raise a chargeback for this therefore. It had also seen a breakdown of the costs for 
amending Mr Ks ticket, which showed that the agent had charged £69 as stated. The 
additional cost was the airlines fee. Sainsburys could see that the agent had said the airline 
might make a charge so it couldnt agree the merchant had done anything wrong.
With regard to the luggage claim, Sainsburys said it couldnt raise a chargeback for this as it 
didnt fit within the chargeback scheme. This was because the cost for booking it in had been 
included in the original ticket price and not paid for separately and so there wasnt a clear 
price to be refunded. It had to follow the rules set by Mastercard, the card provider, and 
these said that, where a customer was stating that a portion of a booking wasnt received, 
they needed to provide evidence of the cost of the missing part to show what was being 
claimed. It would also need to see that Mrs K had specifically requested this be included in 
the re-issued ticket. Sainsburys said it had written to Mrs K asking for this information but it 
hadnt been provided so it hadnt been able to raise the claim. However, it agreed thered 
been some delay in dealing with Mrs Ks complaint and offered her £25 compensation for the 
inconvenience this had caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Sainsburys wasnt able to deal with this 
under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as Mrs K had booked through the agent 
and not direct with the airline so there was no direct supplier- consumer relationship which 
was necessary for this to apply.
In looking at a chargeback, Sainsburys had to follow the chargeback rules in deciding 
whether to raise a chargeback. In this case Sainsburys had explained why the three claims 
didnt fit within the chargeback scheme and why it couldnt raise them with the merchants 
bank. He felt the explanation was reasonable so he wouldnt be asking Sainsburys to do 
anything more.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said 
shed provided Sainsburys with the information showing that shed already paid for the 
suitcase for her husband and shouldnt have had to pay for it again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs K has had several problems with her booking and I can understand how 
frustrating this must be.  However, for me to direct Sainsburys to take some further action to 
resolve this, Id need to be satisfied it had made a mistake in the way it dealt with Mrs Ks 
claims. Having reviewed the information and made further enquiries I dont consider it has, 
as Ill now explain.
When a customer buys good or services using their credit card and a problem occurs with 
that purchase the consumer may in some circumstances be able to claim a refund using the 
chargeback scheme or s75 CCA.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary one run by the card schemes to offer assistance to 
card holders when a problem occurs. In some circumstances it allows the customers bank 
to ask for a transaction or part of it, to be reversed. But not every transaction will fit within the 
scheme as: that depends on the transaction and the nature of the problem. And theres no 
guarantee that any claim will be successful as the merchant may be able to defend it.
The rules of the scheme are set by the card scheme, which in Mrs Ks case was Mastercard, 
but the banks have to comply with them. Its not for me, or Sainsburys to decide the merits of 
Mrs Ks claim but to consider whether it met the requirements of the scheme and could be 
put forward. In general, we expect a bank to raise a chargeback where theres a reasonable 
chance of success but on the other hand, we wouldnt ask it to do so if it looks likely that the 
cardholder would lose.Its possible that a claim can also be brought under s75 in limited circumstances but, in order 
to do so, there needs to be a direct debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, in addition to any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. As Mrs K didnt book directly with the airline but with 
the agent, who then paid the airline, the direct relationship that was necessary wasnt 
present and, for that reason, s75 doesnt apply. Anda claim can only be brought under s75 
where the amount in question is for more than £100 and less than £30,000 so even if it did 
apply it couldnt have been used for the ticket overcharge of £45 or the missing luggage 
claim for 58 euros.
Ill deal with the specific issues in turn.
Exchange/ refund of ticket
Mrs K says that, under the airlines terms and conditions, she should have been able to 
transfer her sons ticket or cancel it. However, Mrs K didnt make her booking directly with 
the airline but used a booking agent, G, and in those circumstances its the agents terms 
and conditions that apply to the booking contract. The agents terms and conditions didnt 
allow tickets to be transferred to another person. And the booking was on a non-refundable 
basis so it didnt provide for a refund either. As the agent had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions, I cant say Sainsburys was unreasonable in deciding not to raise the chargeback 
for this.
Change of name
Ive seen Mrs K feels she was overcharged for changing the name on her husbands ticket. 
But the agents email of 25 September confirmed that although its fee was £50 plus a £19 
admin fee, this was in addition to any charge the airline might make. In the event the airline 
charged £45 so the final bill came to £114. I understand why Mrs K was unhappy at the extra 
fee but the agent wasnt responsible for this and it had warned Mrs K this could happen. In 
the circumstances I cant agree Sainsburys was unreasonable in deciding this claim wasnt 
likely to succeed and that it couldnt be taken forward as a chargeback.
Additional charge for luggage
When Mrs K booked the flights originally, they included hand luggage for each passenger 
and hold luggage for three, including Mr K. From the breakdown provided by the agent at the 
time it doesnt appear that there was any extra charge for this and having checked that 
airline site it seems this was included but had to be booked at the time.
When Mr Ks ticket was reissued, the new ticket didnt have a suitcase booked for Mr K. Mrs 
K complained to the agent but nothing happened so when she got to the airport, she had to 
pay a further 58 euros to book it in.
I sympathise with Mrs K and the position she found herself in but its important to remember 
that a chargeback is a reversal of a transaction or part of it, and not compensation, so in 
order to make the chargeback there has to be evidence of what the service was, and its 
cost. Unfortunately, the original breakdown of the booking costs doesnt show a separate fee 
for the hold luggage so it wasnt possible to say what this had actually cost. And for that 
reason, Sainsburys couldnt do a chargeback for an uncertain amount. Ive seen the original ticket confirmation, the re-issued ticket and the receipt Mrs Ks 
provided showing the additional fee she had to pay at the airport for Mr Ks suitcase and I 
can understand why Mrs K feels theres been a mistake. Its clear Mr K had a suitcase 
booked in originally but this was then removed when the ticket was re-issued. Its not clear 
why this happened or whether it was a mistake by the agent or the airline. However, while I 
sympathise with Mrs K about the extra fee she paid, I dont consider Sainsburys could 
reasonably ask the agent to refund this as that was the fee paid at the airport and not 
necessarily the cost of this service in the original booking. And because the original booking 
didnt state the cost of this service, it didnt know what the amount of any refund claim would 
be. I accept that Mrs K may feel this is unsatisfactory but I think that Sainsburys decision 
that, without this information, it couldnt raise this as a chargeback was reasonable.
With regard to the way Sainsburys dealt with Mrs Ks claim, Ive seen that there was some 
delay in responding to this but Sainsburys acknowledged this and paid Mrs K £25 
compensation. I consider to be reasonable and in line with what would be usual for a 
complaint of this type.
I realise Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons given, I consider 
Sainsburys has acted reasonably and in the circumstances, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman