DRN-2631026
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs and Mr P 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr P have said the PPI was added without their knowledge or permission. Im 
conscious that this did happen about 20 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone 
didnt remember the detail of everything from that long ago. And in fact there is evidence, 
from documents at the time, that Mrs and Mr P were aware of the PPI and actively requested 
it. I say this because there is a copy of a letter from Mr P to the insurer, dated 3 June 2021, 
saying I enclose our application for Mortgage Repayments Insurance. I would be grateful if 
you would process the application.
So I do think the PPI was added with Mrs and Mr Ps consent, even if they dont now 
remember that. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr P, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Ps particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Ps situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr P (the person covered by the policy) was eligible for the policy, and so 
would have been entitled to make a claim. 
The PPI would have paid benefits if Mr P was off sick for a significant period  and 
hes told us he wouldnt have received employer sick pay. Even if he had, the PPI 
would have paid out on top of that. It would also have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. Mr P has also said they didnt have savings to fall 
back on. So, overall, the PPI could have put Mrs and Mr P in a more secure position, 
if theyd eventually lost income due to Mr Ps long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out, even if their budget appears to have been tight. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr P would 
have been affected by any of these. Mr P has said he had a medical condition and 
believes this would have limited his ability to claim  but Ive checked, and this 
particular policy wouldnt have stopped him making a claim as a result. 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr P to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mrs and Mr P took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its 
unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman