DRN-1445964
The complaint
Miss W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Miss W was given 18 loans by Sunny between October 2017 and December 2018. Each of 
the loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Miss W generally repaid the 
loans within a few weeks of taking them out. At times Miss W had two loans outstanding at 
the same time. All of Miss Ws loans have been fully repaid and a summary of some of her 
borrowing from Sunny is shown below.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 12/10/2017 04/11/2017 £  150
2 17/10/2017 04/11/2017 £  100
3 04/11/2017 30/11/2017 £  600
4 17/11/2017 30/11/2017 £  250
5 12/12/2017 29/12/2017 £  350
6 21/12/2017 19/04/2018 £  200
7 03/06/2018 11/06/2018 £  700
8 04/06/2018 11/06/2018 £  150
9 15/07/2018 31/07/2018 £  100
10 23/07/2018 31/07/2018 £  200
: : : :
17 14/12/2018 15/12/2018 £  200
18 14/12/2018 15/12/2018 £  200
 
Miss Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Sunny 
had been wrong to give the first six loans to Miss W. But he didnt think Sunny should have 
agreed to lend the remaining loans. So he asked Sunny to pay Miss W some compensation.
Sunny didnt agree with that assessment. But it offered to refund the interest and charges 
that Miss W had paid from loan 13 onwards. Miss W didn't accept that offer. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Miss W accepts my decision it is legally 
binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Miss W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Miss W. It asked her for details of her income, and 
her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
Generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit 
file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion 
of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up 
to date. I appreciate that Miss W says she had some historical credit problems - and I can 
see a number of defaults from before her borrowing with Sunny started on the credit report 
that she has sent us. But these didn't appear on the checks that Sunny did before agreeing 
the loans nor were they something Miss W declared to the lender. I think it was reasonable 
for Sunny to rely on the credit check information it received.As I mentioned earlier each of Miss Ws loans was repayable over a six month period. So 
the amounts that Miss W needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a 
normal payday loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a 
far longer period. 
I think the fact that Miss W typically repaid her loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account when looking at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Miss W.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first three loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Miss W needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income 
shed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. 
I do think, by the time Miss W asked for loan 4, that Sunny should have started to increase 
its level of checks. And from loan 5 onwards it should have realised that it couldnt safely rely 
on the information Miss W was providing about her finances. So I think from loan 5 onwards 
it should have taken steps  to independently verify Miss Ws true financial position. We 
asked Miss W for copies of her bank statements so we could see what better checks would 
have shown Sunny. She didnt provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks 
would have shown Sunny that it shouldnt have lent to Miss W from loan 4 onwards.
But looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss W I think by loan 7 the 
lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
This was now Miss Ws seventh loan request in just under eight months. Although each of 
the first five loans Miss W had taken had been repayable over a period of six months she 
paid those loans off far in a matter of weeks, but borrowed a higher amount very shortly 
afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have 
indicated to Sunny that Miss W was most likely having significant problems managing her 
money. 
But Miss W took around four months to repay loan 6 and there was then a gap of around six 
weeks before she took loan 7. I've thought carefully about whether that gap should have 
given Sunny any confidence that Miss W's finances were returning to a more stable footing.
But when Miss W asked for loan 6, the amount she asked to borrow was far larger than any 
of the loans she's taken before. And she increased her borrowing by taking another loan the 
following day. She wasnt making any inroads to the amount she owed the lender. So I don't 
think the short break in lending suggested that Miss W wasn't reliant on borrowing from 
Sunny.
Following loan 7 Miss W's pattern of repaying loans early and borrowing again very shortly 
afterwards continued unchanged. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Miss W was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was 
leaving in her finances and that her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Miss W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss W's indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The sheer number of loans, and the period she was borrowing over, was likely to have 
had negative implications on Miss Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Miss W from loan 7 onwards. Sunny 
needs to pay Miss W some compensation. 
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Miss W after, and including, the loan that 
she took on 3 June 2018 (loan 7). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss W on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loans 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 to 18 should be removed from 
Miss W's credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold some of Miss Ws complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman