DRN-2585984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt agree to extend the end 
date on their private medical insurance policy, by four months.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have the benefit of a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA.
In April 2020, Mr D contacted AXA, on his and Mrs Ds behalf, because theyd had some 
consultations and treatments delayed  which had been previously authorised by AXA. 
Thats because medical facilities ordinarily used for privately funded treatment were being 
utilised by the NHS for treatment due the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs D say they understand the reasons why this happened and dont hold AXA 
directly responsible for that. But they also say theyd paid for medical insurance cover for 12 
months. And because of the cancelled appointments, at the point of complaining, they were 
concerned that it was unlikely that the appointments and treatment they needed would go 
ahead before the policy renewed in August 2020. 
As such, they asked that their policy be extended by four months without any cost to them. 
Thats because they felt it was unlikely that their postponed appointments would take place 
before the policy was due to be renewed. 
AXA didnt agree to this so Mr and Mrs D complained to our Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. As Mr and Mrs D disagreed, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it.
The policy terms say that the policy is for one year. A year is defined as the 12 months 
from your policy start date or last renewal date. Mr and Mrs Ds insurance membership 
statement confirms the policy start date to be 9 August 2019 and the renewal date as 9 
August 2020. The terms dont provide for any circumstances whereby the policy can be 
extended beyond the end date. And although the policy can be renewed, that would mean a 
separate contract of insurance is entered into. 
Im also satisfied that AXA hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not agreeing to Mr and 
Mrs Ds request to extend the term of their policy by four months in the circumstances of this 
case. Thats because:
During 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the 
NHSs response to the pandemic. This, understandably, temporarily affected AXAs 
ability to provide the full range of services it would usually be able to offer to 
customers under their medical insurance policies. And this resulted in some medical 
appointments that had been arranged for Mr and Mrs D being postponed. This was 
due to the unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im 
satisfied, this was outside of AXAs control.
AXA has provided us with a breakdown of consultations, diagnostic tests and 
treatments it authorised for Mr and Mrs D during the period April 2020 and 9 August 
2020, when the policy was due to renew. Im satisfied that although some 
appointments may have been initially delayed, they did attend consultations, 
undergo diagnostic tests and treatment during this period for various medical issues. 
So, it follows that Mr and Mrs D were still able to benefit from the policy during this 
time. AXA also says during this period, there were occasions when private medical 
facilities  preferred by Mr and Mrs D  and covered under the policy couldnt 
accommodate their treatment at the time. So, AXA agreed for treatment to take 
place at alternative medical facilities which did have capacity. Whilst, ordinarily 
under the terms of their policy, Mr and Mrs D wouldve needed to make a significant 
contribution towards payment for treatment at those facilities, AXA agreed to pay the 
claim in full. I think that supports what AXA initially told Mr D after hed initially raised 
concerns; that it was working as fast as it could to find alternative ways to help him 
and Mrs D get any treatment they needed more quickly. So, Im satisfied AXA 
responded reasonably in the circumstances 
Whilst the services AXA ordinarily could provide under the policy were affected by 
the pandemic, it did introduce additional policy benefits including a virtual Clinical 
Support Centre. It also says it removed any policy excesses and out-patient benefit 
limits for consultations and diagnostics  for those customers who opted to use that 
service. It also provided unlimited access to remote GP service.
At the point when Mr and Mrs D complained to AXA, in April 2020, the policy still had 
over three months left to run until it was due to be renewed. At that time, there was 
nothing to suggest that the medical appointments that had been postponed wouldnt 
go ahead before then. So, I dont think AXA acted fairly or unreasonably by not 
agreeing to Mr and Mrs Ds request to extend the period of the insurance by four 
months, free of charge.
Im satisfied AXA fairly offered to review whether it could apply any discount closer to 
the renewal date. Afterall, the renewal date was still over three months away at that 
stage and the impact of Covid-19 pandemic was unclear and still evolving.
Once the impact of Covid-19 is fully understood AXA is prepared to review the wider 
impact on their customers, including Mr and Mrs D. And if theres a reduction in its healthcares overall claims costs in 2020 and 2021 (combined), arising from delay in 
treatment due to the Covid-19 pandemic - compared to 2019 - AXA has committed 
to pass back the difference to eligible customers. It says that this will be in proportion 
to the premiums individual customers paid. AXA has also said that any calculation 
will be verified by an appropriate independent auditor. I think AXAs intended course 
of action is reasonable in the circumstances of this case  particularly as the effects 
of the pandemic are ongoing and the impact is still uncertain. I know Mr D has told 
our investigator that he wasn't concerned about this. But I think its still relevant to 
the circumstances of his and Mrs Ds complaint  and whether AXA acted fairly by 
not agreeing to their policy being extended beyond the renewal date by four months, 
at no extra cost. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman