DRN-2901361
The complaint
 Mr J complains that payments were taken from his account that he didnt authorise and 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to prevent these payments from leaving his 
account. He also complains that he received poor customer service.
 
What happened
 Mr J had payments taken from his account, by a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) that 
he didnt authorise. Over a period of several months, payments were taken under the CPA. 
On each occasion, Mr J asked the bank to cancel it and refund the payment.
Mr J was assured that the payments would be refunded and there would be no further 
issues, but the payments kept being taken. Mr J experienced continued frustrations with the 
way Barclays dealt with his request, including having his card cancelled in the belief it would 
stop the payments being taken. But, this didnt work. Barclays made other attempts to stop 
the payments which werent successful and, Mr J thought one call had been ended abruptly 
by the call handler he was speaking to.
Mr J complained to Barclays who accepted that theyd let him down and agreed a 
compensation payment of £150. At the time of this first complaint, a further payment had 
been taken by the merchant and Barclays credited Mr Js account with the refund whilst they 
dealt with it under chargeback rules. Barclays wrongly processed the chargeback and a few 
months later, Mr Js account was re-debited because the chargeback had failed. 
Mr J complained again to Barclays who re-credited the amount back to his account and 
offered a further £100  £20 for calls and £80 compensation, which Mr J refused. Mr J 
thought that Barclays should increase the offer based on the treatment hed received from 
them and the time it had taken to resolve the problem.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked into by 
one of our investigators. She thought that Barclays had offered a reasonable amount of 
compensation and didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J disagreed with the outcome and in reply to the investigators view, said he was subject 
to repeated mistakes including being given the wrong advice, poor customer service, having 
to wait for three days for a new card and the complaint took too long to deal with. 
Because Mr J didnt agree with the investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The payments taken by the merchant under the CPA have all been refunded to Mr J by 
Barclays. So, the issue for me to decide relates to the level of compensation offered by 
Barclays.
When this service considers levels of compensation we take into account a variety of factors, 
including the impact of mistakes on customers, in terms of the distress and inconvenience 
theyve caused. As each case is different and has to be looked at individually, Ive looked at 
all the circumstances of this complaint and decided what is fair and reasonable here. 
Barclays accept that the level of service they gave to Mr J fell short of their own standards. 
Mr J had been trying to sort out the problem with Barclays for some time before he 
complained to them. Barclays had been attempting to stop the payments Mr J had signed up 
for. This isnt a case where Barclays ignored the issue, rather one where they struggled to 
deal with it.
Because CPAs are effectively ongoing authorisations to debit a bank account, Barclays 
found it difficult to prevent them from leaving the account. They tried to deal with it several 
different ways, but on each occasion, Mr J had to revisit the problem with Barclays. It wasnt 
until VISA put a system wide block on the payment requests that the problem was finally 
fixed.
None of that was Mr Js fault though, yet he had to get in touch with Barclays each time a 
payment was taken, despite being told the problem was fixed. This meant that every couple 
of months for six months, Mr J had to spend time on the phone with Barclays, sometimes for 
several hours. During one call, Barclays acknowledges that the call handler didnt handle the 
call in the best manner and ended the call abruptly. 
I think the service he received would have been frustrating and, in the instance of the call 
Ive mentioned, quite surprising and upsetting. That means that itd be fair for Barclays to 
compensate him for the impact their actions had. The issue is whether the two offers of 
compensation adequately reflect this. 
Ive no doubt he was frustrated by the ongoing problem and losing confidence in your banks 
ability to deal with what feels like a simple issue clearly caused Mr J some stress. It would 
have been inconvenient to spend time dealing with Barclays every time the payment left the 
account, particularly when Mr J was under the impression that the issue had been fixed.
Barclays offered a total of £250 for the various elements of their poor service, including £20 
for call costs. Whilst Mr J suffered several separate periods of inconvenience and time spent 
on the phone with Barclays  Ive also considered the other circumstances, including the 
three day wait for a new card and think that £250 is a reasonable offer from Barclays to 
reflect their poor service and the impact on Mr J. 
I dont downplay the frustration that Mr J felt and the inconvenience he suffered  but I have 
to look at this complaint impartially. And while the overall issue went on for some time, the 
impact on him was for a limited time every two months. In taking that into account alongside 
everything else here, Im satisfied the overall compensation offered by Barclays is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Whilst Im sure Mr J will be disappointed by my decision, I dont think that Barclays need to 
increase their offer. I understand that Mr J accepted the £150 from his first complaint and 
turned down the £100 for his second complaint. So Im not increasing the amount I think is 
fair for Barclays to pay Mr J  but Barclays are required to pay the outstanding £100 to Mr J. Putting things right
 Barclays Bank UK PLC have already paid £150. Theyve also made an offer to pay a further 
£100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
So, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £100.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman