DRN-3290969
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General charged two 
excesses for vet treatment claimed for under his pet insurance policy. My references to 
Fairmead include its agents.
What happened
Mr C had pet insurance for his dog insured by Fairmead. In May 2021 Mr C took his dog to 
the vet for annual injections and the vet noticed the dog had four small lumps on his right 
side. One lump had a fine needle aspiration and was a suspected mast cell tumour. Mr Cs 
dogs vet says Mr C was advised that all four lumps should be removed surgically and 
submitted for histology as it was suspected all four potentially could be mast cell tumours.
Mr C says he contacted Fairmead to explain the situation and was told to submit a claim 
form and an excess of £75 would apply.
In June 2021 Mr Cs dog had surgery to remove the four lumps which were sent for analysis. 
The histology report said two of the lumps were mast cell tumours and two were 
trichoepithelioma which are benign tumours originating from hair follicles.
Mr C claimed for the treatment which Fairmead accepted. But it deducted two £75 excesses 
as it said the histology report showed that the dog had two conditions.
Mr C complained to us. He said Fairmead had been unfair to charge two excesses because:
There was only one condition as a benign lump wasnt a condition.
It had been impossible to identify which lumps had mast cells present without all four 
lumps being removed, which had been done under single anaesthetic, and all four 
lumps being analysed.
Fairmead initially told him there would be one excess.
Mr C wants Fairmead to refund one of the excesses and change its procedures about how it 
charges excesses. He said hes been affected emotionally by Fairmeads decision as hes 
spent considerable time and effort in making his complaint.
Our investigator said Fairmead hadnt done anything wrong as the policy documents said it 
would charge an excess per condition.
Mr C disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy defines excess as:
The first amount of a claim as shown in the schedule that is payable by you for each 
illness or accidental injury resulting in a claimable condition or as stipulated in the 
schedule in respect of the liability section.
The policy definition of condition includes:
Manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from 
the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your 
pets body affected.
And the policy defines illness as:
Sickness, disease, infection or any change in your pets normal healthy state which 
is not caused by injury.
The policy schedule says The Excess for Veterinary Fees is applicable per Condition.
The histology report for the four lumps identifies two separate conditions; two of the lumps 
were mast cell tumours and two were trichoepithelioma. So I think under a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms Fairmead could charge two excesses, one for each 
condition.
However, I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances 
of a case. In these particular circumstances I dont think it was fair for Fairmead to charge 
two excess because:
Although two conditions were found by the histology the treatment claimed for was 
the same procedure done at the same time. Mr Cs vet confirmed that Mr C was 
advised all four of the lumps should be removed surgically and sent for analysis as it 
was suspected all four could be mast cell tumours. The vet also confirmed the 
surgery was done under a single anaesthetic.
I note Fairmead asked the vet to resubmit split bills for the two conditions and the vet 
submitted a larger bill for the mast cell tumours. But Ive looked at the two bills and it 
appears that the vet has put all the costs that were necessary for the four lumps (for 
example the blood test, the drip, the histology report) under the mast cell tumours bill. 
In reality those costs also applied to the treatment necessary to identify that two of 
the lumps were benign tumours.
So I think the vet fees would have been the same if all four of the lumps had been 
mast cell tumours or not. I dont think theres evidence that more vet fees were 
incurred because the histology found the lumps were caused by two conditions.
I think the fair outcome is for Fairmead to repay Mr C one of the £75 excesses plus interest 
as Ive detailed below.
Mr C says hes spent considerable time and effort in making his complaint. But I dont 
generally say that a busines has to pay any compensation for a consumers effort and 
inconvenience in making a complaint and theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
Its a business decision for an insurer to decide what, if any, excess it will charge for a claim 
and I cant tell an insurer that it must change its procedures. I can decide whether an insurer 
has reasonably charged an excess in the circumstances of an individual case. For the 
reasons above in the circumstances of this case I dont think Fairmead fairly charged two 
excesses for this claim.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C accepted my provisional decision and Fairmead said it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C accepted my provisional decision and Fairmead said it had no further comments 
Ive no reason to change my mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and 
these findings:
In the circumstances of this case I think Fairmead unfairly charged two excesses for 
this claim. It must refund to Mr C one excess plus interest.
I dont think theres any basis for me to make a compensation award for Mr Cs 
distress and inconvenience in making this complaint. I cant tell an insurer that it must 
change its general procedure for charging excesses.
Putting things right
Fairmead must repay Mr C one of the £75 excesses plus interest as Ive detailed below.
.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and 
General to repay Mr C one of the £75 excesses plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the 
date he paid the second excess to the date of settlement.
*If Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr C how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman