DRN-3387858
The complaint
Miss P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (Marbles) didnt treat her fairly when 
she advised them she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss P had a marbles card. In August 2020, she went over her limit of £3,800  the balance 
was £3,951.27. On 17 August 2020, and on 27 August 2020, Marbles wrote to Miss P to say 
she was over her limit and her card was suspended. Marbles asked for the overlimit amount 
to be paid. On 26 August 2020, Miss P had written to Marbles to say she was in financial 
difficulty due to the pandemic  as her income had reduced as a result. She asked for help 
and time to pay. This letter was received by Marbles on 27 August 2020 and was treated as 
a complaint and directed to their complaint department to investigate. Miss P (or her family) 
wrote again on 1 September 2020 (received by Marbles on 7 September 2020); and again, 
on 4 September 2020; 11 September 2020; 16 September 2020 (three letters); and 15 
October 2020. 
On 9 September 2020, Marbles suspended all collections activity, including letters, texts, 
and calls. But on 14 October 2020, a default notice was issued.
On the complaint, Marbles acknowledged Miss Ps letter as a complaint on 11 September 
2020 and issued their final response on 14 October 2020.
Miss P complained. She said shed been subjected to letters, calls, and texts and felt bullied. 
She said shed asked Marbles for help and they didnt provide it. She said she was very 
unwell  and her letters to Marbles gave details of her mental illness. She said that Marbles 
made everything much worse. She wanted Marbles to terminate her account and accept 
payments of £20 a month.
Marbles said their service had fallen short and offered compensation of £95, together with 
interest of £178.28 and fees totalling £36. In August 2020, Miss P had gone over her limit 
and didnt pay the minimum monthly amount  so they applied an overlimit fee and a late 
payment fee. In view of her circumstances, after her letter was received on 7 September 
2020 - theyd referred her account to their customer care team and stopped all collections 
activity on 9 September 2020  which meant no interest or charges would be applied and 
they wouldnt contact Miss P. But they upheld Miss Ps complaint  because they didnt deal 
with her letter received on 26 August 2020 effectively.
Miss P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Marbles needed to do more. 
Miss P was clearly very unwell and this was reflected in her letters. She was a vulnerable 
customer. Marbles should have acted more quickly on receipt of her letter dated 27 August 
2020  rather than it being given to their complaints team. This meant that there was a delay 
until 9 September 2020 before any action was taken  during which time Miss Ps well-being 
was badly affected. No update was sent to Miss P about the actions that Marbles had taken 
on 9 September 2020  which wouldve been helpful. Marbles didnt reply to the subsequent 
letters sent to them - and they should have. While she understood that the default notice had 
to be sent (in October 2020  Marbles could have advised Miss P about its context and what 
it meant. Overall, Marbles had failed to protect further harm to a vulnerable customer. And 
for this, our investigator said they should pay further compensation of £500.
Marbles disagreed. They said theyd already refunded interest and fees of £214.28 and 
offered compensation of £95  which they felt was sufficient. Theyd stopped collection 
activity on 9 September 2020  and their records showed they only called Miss P twice 
between 1 September 2020 and 4 September 2020  and after that, they tried to call her 
about her complaint and the default letter later sent. Marbles asked that an ombudsman look 
at Miss Ps complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The content of Miss Ps complaint showed she was clearly a vulnerable customer. This 
meant that Marbles had an obligation to treat her with an appropriate level of care and 
support.
Miss Ps letter to Marbles on 26 August 2020 and then on 7 September 2020 indicates very 
clearly that she needed help and support. This was further detailed in her (and her familys) 
further six letters throughout September and October 2020.  In those circumstances, 
Marbles had an obligation to treat her accordingly and give her proportionate support. So  I 
must consider whether they did.
Miss P had received two letters from Marbles  dated 17 August 2020 and 27 August 2020. 
These said she was over her limit and her card had been stopped. As a result of the first 
letter, Miss P first wrote to Marbles on 26 August 2020, she wanted help. She said she was 
in financial difficulty because of her reduced income though the pandemic. She was 
concerned about the letters and calls shed received about her account going over her limit  
she said all she wanted was support and help. She told Marbles about her condition. What 
happened then was that Marbles treated this as a complaint and logged it as such  so it 
was referred for investigation. 
Ive thought about this  and what I think would have been a proportionate response here 
would have been urgent action by Marbles Customer Care Team  who dealt with 
customers in difficulty. But because it was treated as a complaint, that didnt happen. And so 
 Miss Ps account remained in the collections department and received some calls and 
texts. Marbles say she was called two times  on 1 September 2020 and 4 September 2020 
and showed us evidence of that. 
I havent asked for text records so dont know what they might show. Miss P says there were 
a significant number  and I accept that because her testimony around this has been clear 
and consistent. What is evident from what Miss P has told us and shown us  is that these 
caused significant distress. And apart from that, she was also concerned shed not heard 
anything since shed received the two letters from Marbles in August 2020 and since her 
letter that she sent on 26 August 2020  and this must have been worrying for her.
When Miss P wrote again in a letter received on 7 September 2020  she gave further 
details of her condition and her financial situation  and said again how worried she was 
about her situation and that shed not heard anything in response to her earlier letter. 
Marbles then put a stop on collections activity  including calls, texts, and letters. But then  
they didnt reply to Miss Ps letter, but it was again passed to the complaints department as 
part of the investigation. It would have been appropriate if Marbles had replied to the letter  
and detailed their actions. If they had, Miss P may have felt things were being handled  but they didnt. Instead, Marbles sent a standard complaint acknowledgment letter on 11 
September 2020  which I wouldve thought only increased Miss Ps anxiety  as she 
needed to know how she could be helped.
As a result, Miss P (or her family) wrote  further six letters  five in September 2020 and one 
on October 2020. These showed  in detail  the effect that the stress and anxiety was 
having on her well-being. I looked at these letters  and Marbles records show they were all 
received within a few days of their date  and none were replied to. Again, if Marbles had 
done so  with details of the actions theyd taken  things may have played out in a fairer 
way for Miss P. But they didnt. So  Miss P and her family were left wondering what was 
happening.  Miss P also showed to us doctors notes and prescriptions which validated what 
shed said  although to be fair to Marbles, I didnt see that she sent anything of that nature 
to them.
So  here was a customer who was clearly vulnerable and needed help and support. But 
unfortunately, Marbles didnt treat her situation with enough urgency  and looked to deal 
with her case as a complaint. That may be Marbles process, but it meant that Miss Ps 
concerns werent dealt with fairly in her circumstances. I was pleased to learn that Miss P is 
now on an interest-free payment plan and paying £34 a month  and she is happy with that. 
Payments are up to date. And so  it looks like things are working out for her. I hope that 
continues to be the case. Marbles have offered to consider writing off Miss Ps debt  and if 
she wants to pursue that, she can send Marbles an up to date medical report detailing the 
reasons that she feels this would be appropriate and Marbles can consider it.
But - I do think that Marbles could have done better in handing Miss Ps affairs, and by not 
doing so, clearly cause her a lot of distress and anxiety particularly because of her 
vulnerability. Ive considered what compensation is appropriate here. I acknowledge that 
Marbles have refunded interest and fees of £214.28, which is welcome; and offered 
compensation of £95. But  I consider the refund of interest and fees something that 
shouldve been done anyway in line with Marbles obligation to treat customers in financial 
difficulty with forbearance  so I dont consider it to be a compensation award. 
I think what happened to Miss P had a considerable impact on her here. This issue went on 
over a few months, with Miss P clearly being worried and uncertain about what was going 
on. Shes explained the impact that this had on her mental health too  which would have 
only made things worse.  And so  I agree that compensation of a further £500 should be 
paid, making a total of £595 (assuming that the £95 still hasnt been paid).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd  trading as Marbles must:
Pay Miss P £595 for distress and inconvenience. This assumes that the offer of £95 hasnt 
yet been paid. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman