The complaint
Mr H has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that his premium 
increased after a claim under his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H had his home emergency policy with British Gas. When his premium increased at the 
time of renewal he thought it was because of a claim on his policy, so he complained to 
British Gas. It acknowledged that it got things wrong and arranged a refund in premium and 
offered £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused which it went on to 
increase to £80.
But Mr H remained unhappy about this and complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He understood why Mr H was 
unhappy but thought British Gas had acted reasonably in reducing the premium and offering 
£80 compensation.
As Mr H didnt agree, as he felt he should be paid a lot more compensation, the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the detail again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration as he was charged more for his premium than he 
shouldve been. And he had to chase British Gas about this and make a complaint over quite 
a period of time. But this services awards are generally modest, and I dont feel it would be 
fair to ask British Gas to pay the hourly rate Mr H wants. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, there is always some inconvenience caused in advancing a complaint when 
things go wrong. This service doesnt look to punish businesses and I think the hourly rate 
Mr H wants would be excessive in the circumstances - although I accept it mustve been 
inconvenient for him advancing his complaint in order to get the right outcome. 
But Ive looked at the level of compensation offered by British Gas and it is in line with what I 
would normally award. I was pleased to see British Gas increased the level of compensation 
to £80, from £50. And in addition to making sure that Mr Hs account was credited with a 
refund and saying sorry for the inconvenience caused I feel this is fair. I know Mr H would 
DRN-1902737like a lot more compensation and wont be happy with my decision, but I think the offer of 
£80 compensation is fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman