DRN-3229602
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt credit money it deposited 
into its account.
What happened
S says that an employee went to a branch on 6 April 2021 to deposit cash into an automated 
machine. The first attempt wasnt successful and on the second attempt cash was retained, 
and no receipt given. The employee raised this at the branch. There was no credit made to 
the account. S is unhappy that Barclays hasnt made CCTV available.
Barclays said it wouldnt be crediting the money. It told this service that the director had 
initially told it she went into a branch. But instead she had given an employee her card for S 
and the PIN in breach of its customer agreement. This was the only cash deposit attempted 
at this particular branch by S. And the last cash deposit before this had been in January 
2021. It had carried out a full investigation as it had documented and not found any missing 
cash. And this had been checked by two members of staff. The only receipt S had was for a 
transaction that was cancelled and there was no evidence of any deposit. There were no 
errors at the cash centre. CCTV had been viewed at the time and the employee had been in 
the branch for 4 minutes and 37 seconds and had spoken to no one.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he needed to 
make his findings on a balance of probabilities and that we provide impartial dispute 
resolution. He hadnt seen the journal entries or information to support that the machine 
balanced. But he had seen the investigation report. He couldnt see evidence of £3,000 
being deposited that day and Barclays hadnt recorded any discrepancies. There was no 
information about any other errors with the machine. So, he didnt find Barclays had acted 
unreasonably.
S said that it didnt agree and that it wasnt happy with the outcome and investigation. The 
director said that either we didnt comprehend the severity of what happened or didnt care. 
She thought we were here to help investigate in a way that small businesses like S couldnt. 
A balance of probabilities test didnt cut it here. And S wouldnt be pursuing this if it didnt 
believe it had been mistreated. S had asked Barclays for the CCTV footage and Barclays 
had refused to provide this as well as information to this service. That is suspicious enough 
in itself. S had made cash deposits before and of course there isnt any record of £3,000 
being deposited because it wasnt credited. S was asking questions this service should be 
asking and the outcome is based on a lack of information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to confirm that we provide informal dispute resolution and we arent a court. I will be 
making my findings on a balance of probabilities basis  that is what is most likely. I wont be 
able to say exactly what happened.
We have asked Barclays for information to support its conclusions. It now has limited 
information but in response to questions from me (sent through our investigator) it has been 
able to provide a copy of the relevant page from the till agreement book covering that period. 
This shows that the cash machine balanced when it was checked without any error. It also 
has provided an entry which shows that at 12:53 that day £2,900 was returned to the person 
with S card. Barclays points out that this wasnt the amount deposited of £2,980 or £3,000 
as S had claimed. And that the return of this money is consistent in following the time of the 
cancelled transaction receipt. It no longer has CCTV evidence as it doesnt retain this 
indefinitely. It has explained this was viewed in branch and identified for example that it 
wasnt the director depositing cash and the person that attempted to didnt speak to anyone. 
It didnt let the director watch the CCTV due to data protection requirements. It has provided 
details of its data retention policy. And it also said that the staff in branch who looked into 
things had again confirmed their account of what happened in line with what was noted at 
the time.
I can see from the statements of the account that S hadnt been depositing cash that 
regularly as Barclays has pointed out. But S clearly had and intended that money be 
deposited that day. There was a cancelled transaction on behalf of S at 12:51. And Ive now 
seen evidence that an attempted deposit of £2,900 didnt go through and that this amount of 
cash was returned. 
Barclays says S didnt initially explain that the director hadnt been present. The director of S 
in any event is relying on what an employee with her card and PIN and so free access to the 
account of S told her. As Barclays says these should have been kept secure and doing so 
could have helped avoid such disputes. S had no receipt for a second attempted credit. 
There is a dispute about whether the employee spoke to anyone in branch which I cant fairly 
resolve. 
The money either was deposited into the machine or it wasnt. The till record doesnt support 
a deposit of money that wasnt returned, and Ive seen an entry showing that it was returned. 
I have also seen the investigation notes by Barclays over a number of days. These detail 
that named members of staff in that branch checked the machine, contacted the cash 
centre, and viewed CCTV. These dont support any error with the machine. And I have 
evidence that the machine balanced. I dont have direct evidence from the person who S 
allowed to have access to the account.
Im afraid having balanced all these factors I dont have sufficient to find it most likely that 
Barclays made a mistake and so should credit S with this disputed amount. I know the 
director will be very disappointed with this. If S doesnt accept my decision it remains free to 
pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman