DRN-4189753
The complaint
S, a sports club, complains about what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited did after it
made a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy. S is represented by its treasurer, Mr F.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr F contacted RSA as he wanted to challenge the validity of a notice
requiring S to leave the sportsground it used. A month later RSA turned down the claim as it
thought the events giving rise to it had started prior to the policy inception date. Mr F
challenged that decision and RSA accepted at the start of April the claim was covered. It
said it would pass the matter to solicitors to see if it had reasonable prospects of success (a
requirement of the policy).
In mid April Mr F confirmed he was happy for the assessment to be carried out by a panel
firm and the claim was passed to them. They asked for further information via RSA which
Mr F provided. RSA passed that on to the solicitors at the end of April and their assessment
was provided the following day. The panel firm concluded, on the basis of the limited
information available, the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. RSA told Mr F
that in mid May.
Mr F was unhappy with the time taken to progress the claim and with the lack of support
RSA provided while it was being considered. He said as a result of that delay S had to
appoint its own solicitors. And he said RSA shouldnt have declined cover because the panel
firm indicated further information might change its view. He also said following contact from
Ss solicitors the eviction notice had been withdrawn which showed the prospects
assessment was incorrect.
Our investigator thought there had been some delay by RSA in dealing with the claim. And
without that delay Mr F would have had the opportunity to provide more information to the
panel firm and might not have needed to appoint his own solicitors. She accepted it wasnt
possible to say whether the panel firm would have reached a different view on prospects if
provided with further information but thought it would be fair for RSA to cover half of the legal
costs S had incurred.
Mr F provided further information on the costs S had incurred. And he queried whether S
would be able to make a further claim to RSA for assistance with future legal costs relating
to this matter
RSA accepted there had been some delay in the progression of the claim but as no further
information had been received from S following the prospects assessment it didnt think this
had impacted the outcome. It didnt agree to refund any of the legal fees S incurred. It
confirmed it would consider the current position on the claim further if S was able to provide
the additional information the panel firm had referenced.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ss policy (in common with other policies like this) says its a condition of cover that there are
reasonable Prospects of Success in pursuing or defending Your claim. And it defines
Prospects of Success as at least a 51% chance of the Insured Person(s) achieving a
favourable outcome.
In this case RSA referred Ss claim to panel solicitors for a legal assessment of those
issues which is what Id expect it to do. And the opinion from those solicitors in April 2022
was the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success.
In my view the panel firms assessment is properly written and reasoned and from someone
qualified to give it. I dont think there are any obvious errors in it. I appreciate the eviction
notice was subsequently withdrawn and Mr F believes that shows the assessment was
wrong. But there could be many reasons why that happened. And a negative prospects
assessment doesnt mean theres no chance of a claimant winning their case; just that the
claim hasnt met the 51% threshold for cover to be provided under the policy.
I think RSA acted appropriately in relying on that assessment to conclude the policy terms as
they relate to prospects of success hadnt been met. And I dont think it was unreasonable of
it to turn down Ss claim on that basis; the panel firm did say the assessment was based on
limited information and RSA made clear it would reconsider matters if S was able to provide
the missing information. But until the conditions of the policy were met there was no
requirement on RSA to provide any cover for the claim S had made.
However, I do think RSA caused some delay to the progress of Ss claim. It took a month to
initially (and incorrectly) turn down the claim. It took time to pass on the further information
Mr F provided to the panel solicitors. And it didnt provide him with their assessment until
nearly three weeks after it had been received.
But I dont agree that means RSA should fund a proportion of Ss solicitors costs as our
investigator suggested. If an earlier decision had been reached and communicated on the
claims prospects of success the outcome would have been the same; cover wouldnt have
been provided under the policy. That means S would always have needed to seek its own
legal advice if it wanted to protect its position.
And I dont think its likely S would have provided any further information in support of the
claim at that stage which would have impacted the prospects decision. I understand it hasnt
done so to date. I can also see that when Mr F wrote to RSA after receipt of the prospects
assessment he acknowledged the points raised by the panel firm were valid and said we
are trying to work through, both by discussion amongst ourselves and with our solicitor, all of
those things. That also suggest S wasnt in a position to provide a response to the issues
raised by the panel firm.
Taking all of that into account Im not satisfied theres a link between what RSA got wrong
and the costs S incurred. However, I do accept S will have been inconvenienced by the
delay. Having to follow up on these matters with RSA will have meant Mr F and others were
diverted from being able to pursue other activities for S (including challenging the eviction
notice that had been issued). I think a payment of £200 would fairly recognise the
inconvenience caused in this case.
Mr F has also raised concerns about the ongoing issues S is facing (I understand further
eviction notices have now been served). Those are matters hell need to raise with RSA in
the first instance as I can see our investigator has already advised; they arent something Im
considering as part of this complaint. However, if the issues are similar to those previouslyraised I think its likely S will, as a minimum, need to provide the information previously
identified by the panel solicitors if cover is to be agreed for any new claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA agreed with my provisional decision. Mr F provided further comments. In summary he 
said:
He thought that RSA should have been more helpful given the urgency of the situation 
but instead there was delay by it in moving matters forward.
He believed the eviction notice had been withdrawn because of the legal advice S 
obtained and it wasnt clear what information was required in response to the prospects 
assessment. He thought assumptions were being made about what would have 
happened if this had been completed earlier.
He didnt think the compensation Id recommended was enough and thought a higher 
amount should be paid. He also queried the basis for this payment and why it couldnt 
relate to the stress that had been caused by what RSA got wrong.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr F feels Ive made assumptions about what would have happened. However, 
where the evidence is unclear or incomplete, I do need to reach my own view on what I think 
is most likely to have happened. And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I 
dont think its likely that without the delay by RSA S would have provided further information 
in support of the claim which would have impacted the prospects decision. 
I continue to feel it was reasonable for RSA to rely on that assessment. I understand the 
point Mr F has made about why the eviction notice was subsequently withdrawn but. as I 
said in my provisional decision. a negative prospects assessment doesnt mean theres no 
chance of a claimant being successful. It simply means that, based on the available 
evidence, the claim hasnt met the threshold for cover to be provided under the policy. Mr F 
has also suggested it wasnt clear what information needed to be provided following the 
assessment. But I think it does set out whats missing. And if S was unclear about this it 
could have asked RSA for clarification.  
However, I agree with Mr F that RSA did delay the handling of this claim and should have 
moved things forward more quickly. Hes suggested the compensation for this should be 
higher but hasnt provided any further information about the impact on S in support of that. 
He has referenced the stress caused by what RSA got wrong but, as I think our investigator 
explained, because S is the eligible complainant in this case I can only consider the impact 
on it. And its not possible for S, as a sports club, to suffer stress. It can of course be 
inconvenienced but it remains my view that £200 fairly recognises the impact on it of what 
RSA got wrong. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will need to 
pay S £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman