DRN-4115119
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked his account and denied 
him access to the funds in his account.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M was a long standing customer of Nationwide. In May 2022, Nationwide restricted 
Mr Ms access to his account. Nationwide were concerned about a number of transactions 
taking place on Mr Ms account and believed that he was the victim of a romance scam. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr M to let him know it had blocked his account and asked him to 
provide them with information about the activity on his account. Some of Nationwides 
records from the time say that Mr M told them that he was receiving money from various 
members of his girlfriends family and that he was then sending the money onto her. He said 
that he had never met his girlfriend but had known her for around three years and spoke to 
her daily. He also said that he didnt know the people sending him money that he passed on 
to his girlfriend. And that a number of payments were from different countries.
Mr M said he hadnt done anything wrong and didnt think there was anything untoward in 
what he was doing. He said Nationwides actions were discriminatory because his girlfriend 
was from Ghana. He said not being able to access his account had meant he wasnt able to 
buy supplies he needed for work, so he lost out on wages. 
Nationwide asked Mr M to provide them with more information about his girlfriend, including 
her name, the purpose of the payments, paperwork to show the origin of the funds and 
identification for his girlfriend. Mr M refused to provide the information. So Nationwide 
continued to block Mr Ms account.
Mr M complained. Nationwide said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked Mr Ms 
account and asked him for information. It explained that it was concerned for Mr M and trying 
to protect him. And as he still hadnt provided them the information it needed it still wouldnt 
allow him access to his account. However, it acknowledged that it hadnt done things as 
quickly as it should have after Mr M had submitted some information. Nationwide said it 
should have updated Mr M by 2 August 2022, and it hadnt done so. Nationwide also 
acknowledged that it hadnt progressed its review until March 2023 and offered 
Mr M £75 compensation due to the length of time it had taken.
In April 2023, Nationwide decided to close Mr Ms account and wrote to him giving him two 
months notice. In the letter Nationwide set out that Mr M could access his account balance 
by visiting a branch.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint.  
Whilst he acknowledged that Nationwide were trying to protect Mr M, when it had blocked 
his account, he didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr M fairly in keeping his account 
blocked for so long. And should have closed the account sooner. He recommended that 
Nationwide pay Mr M a further £325 compensation (in addition to the £75 already offered). 
He also said that Nationwide should pay interest for loss of use of the funds in Mr Ms 
account from 2 August 2022.
Mr M disagreed. He maintained that Nationwides had no right to block his account and its 
actions were racially motivated. He said that the amount of compensation isnt enough, and 
he wants Nationwide punished for how it has treated him. He said Nationwide have stolen 
his money and that he is out of pocket. 
Nationwide accepted the investigators recommendations and suggested that interest should 
be paid up until 16 March 2023, as it said this is the date it was prepared to release Mr Ms 
funds to him.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to address Mr Ms comments about Nationwide committing theft. Mr M has 
said that Nationwide has stolen his money in denying him access to his account  in other 
words broken the law. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. And I cant make a 
finding as to whether the law has been broken, and I dont need to in order to decide this 
complaint. So, whilst the law is a relevant consideration , we dont look at complaints in the 
same way a court might. Were able to reach an outcome based on what we believe to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Likewise, Mr M wants our service to make a finding as to whether Nationwide has 
discriminated against him on the grounds that his girlfriend is from Ghana. While I can 
appreciate this is his perspective, it is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
decide whether the business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Im 
required to consider a number of factors in order to decide Mr Ms complaint in accordance 
with what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Part of this 
has meant considering the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 . And after looking at all the 
evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Nationwide decided to block and close Mr 
Ms account for an improper reason. 
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that Nationwide unfairly restricted his access to his account.  
Nationwide have legal and regulatory obligations to be alert to instances of fraud and scams. 
And to act in their customers best interests. If they have good grounds to suspect that one 
of their customers is in the process of being scammed or unwittingly allowing their accounts 
to be used for financial crime, they can refuse to process payments and restrict an account 
to protect them. The terms and conditions of the account also permit them to do so.
Ive looked at all the evidence Nationwide has provided and what Mr M has said about how 
he was using his account. Ive also kept in mind that Mr M refused to provide Nationwide the 
information it requested and didnt accept that he was a victim of a scam of fraud. Having 
looked at everything, I can understand why Nationwide had concerns based on the 
information Mr M did provide and the activity on his account. And I dont think the decision to 
restrict Mr Ms account was unreasonable in these circumstances. I believe the decisions 
Nationwide took, were made in good faith and in an effort to protect Mr M against losing his money to a potential scam or using his account for an illegal purpose. So I dont think it was 
wrong of Nationwide to block Mr Ms account.
Ultimately, given Mr Ms reluctance to engage with Nationwides request for information, they 
had the option, under the account terms, to give Mr M notice to close the account (as they 
have now done)  at which point the funds would have been transferred to another account 
in Mr Ms name. Nationwide wrote to Mr M on 3 April 2023, giving him two months notice 
that he needed to make alternative banking arrangements and that he could have access to 
his balance. Nationwide has said that it should have completed its review of Mr Ms account 
by 2 August 2022. With this in mind and from looking at the timeline of events, I think the 
decision to close Mr Ms account should have been taken much sooner than it was. So, in 
the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt treat Mr M fairly, as 
they continued to restrict Mr Ms access to his account for longer than necessary.
Mr M has said that as a result of his account being restricted, he has lost out on work 
because he wasnt able to buy supplies for jobs hes been asked to do. But Mr M hasnt 
provided any evidence that he lost out on income. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
award compensation for something that there is no evidence of. Ive also kept in mind that  
Mr M was able to access his wages and any benefits he received into his account by going 
along to a branch. So, he did have access to some of the money in his account. I also 
understand that at the time Mr M had access another account with a different bank.
I do, however, accept that being unable to access his account for so long would have 
caused Mr M inconvenience and upset. Nationwide themselves has also accepted it took too 
long to complete its enquiries and close Mr Ms account. They have already offered Mr M 
£75 compensation in respect of this. Nationwide has also accepted the investigators 
recommendations and suggested that the cut-off date for paying interest for loss of use of 
funds as 16 March 2023, which it says it when it was prepared to release Mr Ms funds. 
Ive considered Nationwides suggestion, but I am not inclined to agree that this is an 
acceptable date up to which interest should be paid. I say this because I can see that 
Nationwide were still having discussions with Mr M up to at least 30 March 2023 about how 
he was using his account. So, Im not satisfied that it would have been in a position to 
release the money before it sent Mr M a notice to close letter on 3 April 2023.
Overall, and taking all the evidence and arguments into consideration, Im satisfied that the 
further payment of £325 compensation recommended by the investigator is fair for the 
trouble and upset caused by Nationwides actions. For the avoidance of doubt, this payment 
is in addition to the £75 compensation already offered by Nationwide. And if Nationwide 
hasnt already paid this it should pay this together with the £325 into an account of Mr Ms 
choice, bringing the total amount of compensation to £400. In addition, Nationwide should 
pay Mr M 8% simple interest on his account balance for loss of use of his funds. This should 
be paid from 2 August 2022 until 3 April 2023, which is the date Nationwide decided to close 
Mr Ms account.
In reaching this conclusion I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual 
loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by something a financial business did 
wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as 
a means of punishing a business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
In summary, based on all the evidence and circumstances of his complaint, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide hasnt treated Mr M fairly and it should put things right as set out below. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society  
to put things right by doing the following: 
Pay Mr M £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this matter
Pay Mr M 8% simple interest on the sum of Mr Ms account from 2 August 2022 until 
3 April 2023.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to withhold income tax from 
the above-mentioned interest. Nationwide Building Society should give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman