DRN-3200563
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
her credit limit without notifying her. She says this in turn had an impact on her credit score. 
Ms S also complains about the customer service she received.   
What happened
Ms S says her Barclaycard account was compromised in October 2020. She says the 
fraudulent activity was reported to Barclaycard who then refunded the disputed transactions. 
Ms S says she then received an email in December saying she was approaching her credit 
limit. This caused Ms S to worry as she understood her credit limit at the time was £12,000 
and she wasnt near her credit limit. Ms S was worried her account mightve been 
compromised again so she contacted Barclaycard and was told her credit limit had been 
reduced from £12,000 down to £2,050. Ms S says she hadnt received any prior notification 
of this so she complained. Ms S says she then received a text message to say her credit 
limit had been reduced and that a letter had been sent a week earlier. Ms S says she called 
Barclaycard again and was told her complaint had been closed. This was reopened and the 
call hander explained they would respond to the complaint.  
Barclaycard responded and explained they had reduced Ms Ss credit limit in line with their 
policy. They said the limit was reduced as a result of a review of Ms Ss Barclaycard account 
history and information they had from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Barclaycard 
said, when they review a credit limit they look at things like level of borrowing, payment 
pattern and whether a customer has missed any payments. They said the information they 
received from the CRAs indicated that Ms S had a high level of borrowing with a low 
repayment pattern. Barclaycard said this was the reason for the credit limit reduction, and 
her account being compromised wasnt a factor in their decision. 
Barclaycard said they always try and let customers know by letter or text if they can, but 
sometimes they have to change a limit without prior warning to make sure theyre lending 
responsibly. Barclaycard said they appreciate Ms Ss comments on the impact this has had 
on her credit score but they have no control over how CRAs interpret the data Barclaycard 
send. Barclaycard confirmed they wouldnt be reinstating the previous limit.    
Our investigator looked into things for Ms S. She thought Barclaycard hadnt acted unfairly in 
reducing the credit limit. Ms S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The credit limit
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms Ss Barclaycard account. This says 
Barclaycard will set a customers credit limit according to their circumstances, their account 
usage and history and information they receive from CRAs. It goes further to say 
Barclaycard will review the credit limit from time to time. Under a section headed Managing 
your credit limit it says If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your 
ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would 
not be appropriate. (However we may choose to give you up to seven days notice). We 
wont reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any 
transactions authorised but not yet charged to your account. 
The terms and conditions do allow Barclaycard to reduce Ms Ss credit limit so I cant say 
theyve acted outside of their agreement with Ms S. But, Ive gone further and looked into 
whether their decision was fair. System notes provided by Barclaycard show they received 
information from the CRAs which noted Ms S had a high level of borrowing with low 
repayments being made. The first point Ive looked at here is whether I think it was 
reasonable for Barclaycard to take action based on this. We expect businesses to lend 
responsibly and to ensure they take into account a range of factors relevant to their 
customer. I think its reasonable and responsible for a business to carry out regular reviews 
of a customers account and to take action where information might suggest a customer may 
be experiencing financial problems. In this case, I think the information from CRAs to say  
Ms S has high levels of borrowing is sufficiently concerning  particularly so when combined 
with information which says the level of repayments are low. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclaycard to take action to reduce Ms Ss credit limit. 
Ive looked at Ms Ss credit card statements and I agree this shows a low level of utilisation 
against the credit limit. For example, at the start of December, Ms Ss balance is £1,940.05 
against a credit limit of £12,000. But, I think its important to note that, while account usage 
and utilisation is a factor considered by Barclaycard when setting credit limits, it isnt the only 
factor. The terms and conditions say they also take into account information from CRAs. 
And, thats what theyve done here. 
I note Ms S believes her account being compromised in October was a factor in 
Barclaycards decision but I dont think it has been. The information shows Barclaycard 
received information from the CRAs in early December and then made the decision to 
reduce Ms Ss credit limit four days later. And, Barclaycards system notes dont make any 
reference to the event in October forming part of their decision on the credit limit. So, I 
believe the information from the CRAs is what led to Barclaycards decision. I therefore dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Customer service
I understand Ms S is concerned she didnt receive any prior notification about Barclaycards 
decision. Given what happened in October, I do therefore acknowledge why the email from 
Barclaycard letting Ms S know she was close to her limit caused her worry. At this point its 
understandable that she felt her account had been compromised. It was only when Ms S 
called Barclaycard that she found out the reason for the email was because her credit limit 
had been reduced. I appreciate why Ms S will have wanted to know of this in advance but 
the terms and conditions say Barclaycard dont need to provide prior notice if they think it 
wont be appropriate. 
The system notes show the information from the CRAs is received and the credit limit is 
reduced in the space of four days. Barclaycards terms and conditions say they may choose 
to give up to seven days notice. But, given the timeframe in this case, it appears this was a case where Barclaycard didnt believe it was appropriate to give notice of up to seven days. I 
dont think this was unreasonable given the information they received from the CRAs. 
I do acknowledge Ms Ss concern about the impact the credit limit reduction has had on her 
credit file. Looking at the credit limit and balance on Ms Ss December statement  
immediately prior to the reduction being applied, her credit utilisation was 16%. After the limit 
reduction is applied, its 95%. I can see why this would concern Ms S. But, Barclaycard have 
a duty to report accurate and up to date information about customers accounts to the CRAs. 
Barclaycard have done that here by reporting the limit reduction to the CRAs but they have 
no control over how CRAs interpret this data. So, if there has been an impact on Ms Ss 
credit score, I cant say this is down to an error by Barclaycard. 
I understand Ms S is concerned that, during her first call to Barclaycard, and after she was 
told her credit limit had been reduced, she was told Barclaycard hadnt sent her any prior 
notification of this. Then, after she complained, she received a text message to say her limit 
had been reduced and a letter had been sent to her a week before. Ms S feels Barclaycard 
have back-dated this letter. I havent seen this letter but Barclaycard, in their response to   
Ms Ss complaint and in their response to our service, say they didnt need to provide Ms S 
with any prior notification. So, it appears no letter was sent  and therefore no letter has 
been back-dated. Its not clear why this letter has been referenced in the text message Ms S 
says she received, but theres no evidence a back-dated letter was sent. 
I can see Ms S is also concerned about Barclaycards actions when dealing with her 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general 
rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt 
be able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, 
then we can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer 
experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which Ms S raises about the complaints 
handling are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look 
into the complaint handling part of the complaint.      
 
I am sorry to hear about Ms Ss experience and wish to reassure her that I have carefully 
considered her comments. But, for the reasons I have set out, I dont think Barclaycard have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman