DRN-3825652
The complaint
Miss E has complained about the service provided by esure Insurance Limited (Esure) in 
dealing with a claim for waste-water damage under her home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, Esure includes its loss adjusters in this decision letter.
What happened
Miss Es property was damaged in April 2022 following works carried out by a utility 
company. It had jetted a sewer pipe outside her property which led to waste-water being 
spread over the bathroom and through the floor, ceiling and light fittings to the kitchen below. 
Following advice from the utility company, Miss E made a claim to Esure under her home 
insurance policy. Esure said it was unable to assess the claim remotely whilst it initially 
indicated that it could do so, and then said it would take a further four to six weeks to 
conduct a site visit. Miss E cancelled her claim as a result and pursued a remedy against the 
utility company. Esure paid £30 in recognition of the delays.
Miss W remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. The services 
investigator upheld Miss Es complaint and thought that Esure should pay an additional £170 
to bring the total compensation to £200. The investigator concluded that £30 didnt 
adequately recognise the impact of the delays. However, the investigator didnt think it 
appropriate to award a refund of policy premiums as valid cover had been in place for the 
remainder of the policy period and it had been Miss Es choice to cancel the claim. He also 
thought that Esure would have dealt with the claim, albeit taking longer than reasonable.
Esure disagreed with this outcome and the matter has therefore been referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Esures handling of Miss Es claim was fair and 
reasonable. Ive concluded that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all respects. Ill explain why.
Turning firstly to the submissions of the parties, Miss E said that the utility company had 
accepted full responsibility for the incident and provided contact details and a claim number. 
Miss E instructed a joiner to inspect the damage and he sent a report of his findings. She 
also instructed an electrician who inspected the light fittings and supplied a quote. She said 
that the utility company had then advised her to claim for the damage on her own home 
insurance as this would be quicker and that it would pay any excess amount. She said it 
sounded like a simple process and so contacted Esure.
Miss E provided a comprehensive timeline of events. She said that initially, Esure had 
advised that it would probably try to settle without using a loss adjuster due to the location of 
the property and said the contents claim would be likely to be settled immediately. Following 
appointment of Esures loss adjusters, Miss E said that they set a time and date for a video 
meeting, however no further contact was received. A further video meeting was arranged for 
the end of April 2022, however the video kept failing. Following a request from the loss 
adjusters, she then e-mailed photographs, estimates and list of damaged items. 
Miss E said that by mid-May 2022, With no obvious progress on the case and after several 
attempts to call for updates with no response the loss adjusters then decided they wanted 
a physical inspection of the property. She said she was told that she shouldnt do any 
remedial works or buy replacements. The loss adjusters said that it could be several weeks 
before an inspection could take place. Miss E was then told that it would have been quicker 
to have claimed from the utility company. Miss E decided in the circumstances to re-open 
her complaint with the utility company and cancelled her claim with Esure. In summary Miss 
E said that she then experienced weeks of poor handling. Almost seven weeks after the 
incident, no-one had visited the property, no date could be set for a loss adjustor to visit and 
no settlement for the damage or the contents had been received.
Miss E felt stuck in limbo with sewerage contamination in the bathroom floor. She also said 
that she couldnt use the lights in either the bathroom or kitchen as theyd been condemned 
by her electrician. There was also a lingering, intermittent smell that can't be removed, the 
floor covering had been lifted leaving bare boards; all the toiletries and soft furnishings (eg. 
blind and shower curtain) that had been dumped during the incident, could not be replaced; 
and I was, unsurprisingly, extremely stressed. She accepted that Esure had been pleasant 
to deal with and had handled the complaint well and had ensured a response from the loss 
adjusters. However, she considered that the loss adjusters service had been appalling and 
Since an insurance company is clearly only as good as the people it has handling its claims, 
I have now lost all faith in [Esure]
As to how shed been affected, Miss W said that shed spent a considerable time making 
calls and chasing up responses and shed replaced many of the contents out of her own 
pocket, which she said was a significant hardship at the time. She said that the claim 
handling caused her significant stress and upset over and above that caused by the incident 
itself and the damage caused. As well an apology, Miss E wanted compensation to 
recognise this stress and upset caused. Miss W also thought that Esure should refund the 
full cost of the insurance policy.
Turning to Esures submissions, in its final response in July 2022, Esure upheld Miss Es 
complaint and apologised to her as it agreed that its loss adjusters timescales were 
unreasonable. It also expressed its disappointment that Miss E had to contact Esure twice 
as there hadnt been contact from the loss adjusters. It noted that the utility company was 
now dealing with the matter and that Miss E had withdrawn her insurance claim. It paid £30 
in recognition of the inconvenience caused as the timescales were outside its intended level 
of service.
Esure provided its case notes and from these, its clear that Esure considered the claim was 
valid and had asked Miss E to send a list of contents, quotes for repairs and costs shed 
already incurred. There is a note of a call in mid-May from Miss E to say that she had sent 
requested documents but hadnt heard back from the loss adjusters. The notes indicated 
that the loss adjusters had done a desktop validation however couldnt agree to the costs 
without a visit the property and aimed to visit within four to six weeks. It said this is taking 
time as the [policy holder] lives in[a particular location]. Esure then asked the loss adjuster 
to arrange a visit urgently. It also advised Miss E that due to her location, this would delay 
the visit as the adjuster needed to travel. The note recorded that Miss E understood this 
point. Esure also provided the loss adjusters notes and said there was no reference in them 
to Miss E being advised not to undertake temporary repairs. It accepted however their own 
notes recorded that Miss E had said that shed been advised not to proceed with any work.Having carefully considered the available written evidence and submissions, I note that 
Esure has accepted that the timescales for progressing Miss Es claim had been 
unreasonable and didnt meet its own standards and it had apologised to Miss E. I agree that 
the timescales involved in dealing with the claim were unreasonable. It isnt unreasonable for 
an insurer to undertake reasonable enquiries to validate an insurance claim and to conduct a 
site visit where necessary. However, its expected that such matters are progressed 
diligently and within a reasonable timescale. Even taking account of a propertys location, I 
dont consider that the timescale of four to six weeks to conduct a physical visit to be fair or 
reasonable. This is particularly as it involved sewerage contamination damage to a home. 
The incident and damage would themselves have been distressing and I agree with the 
investigator that stress and inconvenience would have been experienced even if the claim 
had been handled promptly. Im satisfied however that the impact of the incident was made 
significantly worse by Esures handling of Miss Es claim. I dont consider that £30 
adequately recognised the additional stress and inconvenience caused to Miss E. I note that 
Esures loss adjuster had overlooked an appointment for a video meeting with Miss E and 
that there had been some delay in reviewing the evidence which Miss E had submitted. I 
consider that the compensation of £30 may have been sufficient for such matters however 
didnt adequately compensate for all stress and inconvenience caused. 
I agree that an additional award of compensation of £170 (£200 in total) is more in line with 
our approach to awards for distress and inconvenience for service issues of this nature. 
There had been more than one element to the service failure and the failure was significant. 
Additional stress and inconvenience will have been caused by the delay in processing the 
claim between mid-April and the end of May and then the distress of Miss E being told about 
a further four to six week wait for a site visit by the loss adjusters. 
As to whether Miss E could have done more to mitigate her losses, on the balance of 
probabilities, Ive no reason to doubt Miss Es account that the loss adjusters did advise her 
not to carry out any remedial works. Whilst I note that Esures case notes dont record the 
point, the records dont claim to be verbatim notes. In the circumstances, I dont consider it 
fair or reasonable to say that she could reasonably have carried out works and sought 
reimbursement. 
More generally, I consider that Esure didnt manage Miss Es expectations as to timescales 
and as to what would happen. In the absence of relevant telephone recordings, Ive no 
reason to doubt that Esure had initially indicated that there would be no need for a site visit 
and that the contents claim would be settled immediately, however this didnt occur and 
added to Miss Es frustration.
As to Miss Es request for reimbursement of premiums, Miss E accepted our investigators 
reasoning as to why it wouldnt be appropriate to make and award in that respect and I 
concur with that reasoning as it was Miss Es choice to cancel the claim and she had 
received the benefit of cover for the remainder of the policy period.
Finally, it would be fair to mention that Miss E made it clear that Esure was pleasant to deal 
with. It would also be fair to note that it appears that the utility company initially advised Miss 
E to go through her insurers as its own contractors would be unable to do the work in a 
timely manner. As such, if Miss E had pressed on with her claim to the utility company at the 
outset, it is unlikely that Esure would have received this claim. However, once a claim is 
accepted, an underwriter is expected to take responsibility for the whole claims experience, 
including the policyholders interactions with its loss adjusters. In this respect, I dont 
consider that Miss Es claim was handled in a fair and reasonable manner and I dont 
consider that £30 fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused. Im therefore satisfied that Esure should pay compensation of £170, in addition to the £30 compensation 
already paid and that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Es complaint against esure Insurance Limited 
and require it to pay compensation of £170 to Miss E, in addition to the £30 already paid, for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by Esures handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman