DRN-3227336
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (BoS) didnt do enough to 
protect him in relation to debit card payments he made towards an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2018 and 2019 Mr D says he was the 
victim of a scam. He was in contact with a broker H who instructed him to make his 
payments to H via a cryptocurrency exchange J. 
Mr D made the following payments to H through J:
£905.41 on 24 December 2018;
£1,354.79 on 7 January 2019 and
£2,265.77 on 14 January 2019.
Mr D says he was later unable to make any withdrawals. He believes he was the victim of a 
scam and reported this to BoS. BoS considered the debit card payments and said they were 
unable to assist. In summary they said there were no chargeback rights as J were a genuine 
merchant who had done what was asked of them. 
Mr D complained and when BoS maintained their position he came to our service. One of 
our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought BoS 
had acted fairly in the circumstances. As he still disagrees, Mr D has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr D, so Ill explain why. 
I acknowledge that after his debit card payments to J, Mr D went on to make bank transfers 
on the direction of H as part of the same alleged scam. Im aware that these are being 
considered separately, so I wont be making any comment here about the subsequent 
transfers. This complaint is only about the debit card payments to J. 
Mr D says J arent genuine and he believes them to be part of the scam. Hes provided some 
evidence which he says supports this. Ive considered all Mr D has sent in, but Im satisfied 
that J are a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. The nature of cryptocurrency means that 
there is far less regulation involved, but this doesnt mean that all crypto purchases are a 
scam.
Given I find that J are a genuine firm, it seems that they did not defraud Mr D nor steal his 
money and they did not pass it onto a third party without his consent. Its most likely J simply 
did what Mr D asked of them; in return for his debit card payments, they exchanged and 
remitted an equivalent amount in crypto to the wallet address that Mr D entered. Any 
chargeback claim against them would be bound to fail because they delivered the service 
and delivered the currency  so they were entitled to retain the payments that Mr D had 
authorised.  
Mr D has also highlighted industry guidance which he says means that BoS ought to have 
done more at the time he made the payments. He says J was a new merchant that he hadnt 
paid previously. Ive taken this into consideration. But given the balance of Mr Ds account at 
the time of the transactions (always well over £10,000), his previous account activity and the 
value of the payments being instructed, I dont think BoS should have done more than they 
did in relation to the payments at the time. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr D lost the money he paid on his debit card. But as I dont 
think BoS are responsible for the loss or for preventing its recovery, Im not going to tell them 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman