DRN-4286960
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) is responsible for a fall in
value of £27,000 to her pension. She says Grove delayed in dealing with her transfer
request.
Mrs A is represented by her husband in bringing her complaint. Ive referred to what Mr A
has said on Mrs As behalf as if shes made those comments herself.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2023. Ive recapped here what I said about what 
had happened and my provisional findings. 
Mrs A is an active member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). She also has
deferred benefits in the same OPS arising from a previous period of employment and
membership.
Mrs A was referred to Grove in October 2021 via her independent financial adviser (IFA).
Grove wrote to Mrs A on 12 November 2021 saying that Grove would start work on her
enquiry on 16 November 2021. Grove sent a welcome pack confirming, amongst other
things, timescales. Grove also sought information from the OPS, including a new guaranteed
transfer value  Mrs A had obtained one early in July 2021 (£78,196) but it had expired (on 3
September 2021). It showed the date of joining the OPS as 27 March 1989 and the date of
leaving as 28 February 1992. The deferred benefits accrued were detailed. The information
Grove had seen seemed inconsistent as it included revaluation information from 1997
onwards but it was also stated that Mrs As membership had ceased in 1992.
Grove chased the information from the OPS on 1 December and again on 10 December
2022. A transfer value of £88,652 guaranteed until 13 March 2022 was issued on 13
December 2021. I think Grove received it on 20 December 2022. The OPS hadnt answered
all the queries so Grove chased again.
The email chain Ive seen shows several emails were sent on 22 December 2021.
From the OPS to Grove at 10.41. I can confirm that your client is an active member
in the scheme and there is a current salary link.
From Grove to the OPS at 13:05. Please could you confirm the name of the client for 
which this is regarding.
From the OPS at 13:09: My apologies that the name was omitted from the email. It
should relate to [Mrs A] and a query you had sent in on 10 December 2021.
From Grove to the OPS at 13.21: Thank you for your reply. Please could I also have
an update on my request: Why the pension split as at date of leaving says the
benefits accrued between 1997-2003 when the member left in 1992.
The revaluation rate for pre 97 benefits.
From the OPS to Grove at 16:20: Your client has two records  one deferred relating
to an older period of service ending in 1992 and another which began on 1st August
1999 and is still accruing benefits.
Revaluation for benefits as below:
Fixed 5%
The complaint centres on that last email and whether Grove saw and read it. Mrs A says
Grove didnt.
As things stood, Grove informed Mrs As IFA the next day, on 23 December 2021, that
Groves file for Mrs A was being closed. The IFA replied on 5 January 2022, suggesting
there were two periods of service. Mr A confirmed that too, I think on 4 and 14 January 2022.
Grove called the OPS on 18 January 2022 and the OPS confirmed the position so Mrs As
file was reopened on 20 January 2022.
Grove provided Abridged Advice on 9 February 2022. Mrs A instructed Grove to proceed to
Full Advice on 17 February 2022. A call was arranged for 4 March 2022. The Full Advice
report was issued on 7 March 2022, so a week before the guarantee date expired. Groves
advice was that Mrs A should remain in the OPS. Mrs A confirmed she wanted to go ahead
contrary to Groves advice. By then the transfer value had expired.
Upon receipt of Mrs As insistent request, Grove contacted the OPS to establish the
recalculation fee. Grove was told on 31 March 2022 it would be £145 plus VAT. Grove sent
that to its finance team for approval and once approved Grove called the OPS on 11 April
2022 and requested an invoice be sent. Grove chased on 19 and 28 April 2022 when the
invoice was received. Grove paid it on 3 May 2022 and received a new transfer value on 10
June 2022, guaranteed until 8 September 2022. As it had reduced to £62,426.65 Grove was
no longer prepared to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis. Grove emailed the
OPS on 14 July 2022 asking it to honour the £88,652 transfer value but the OPS refused.
Mrs A complained to Grove. She said thered been a total lack of urgency and competence.
She believed Grove failed to read the last email sent by the OPS on 22 December 2021. If
Grove had read it, Grove wouldve seen her position was that she was currently an active
member of the OPS but she had an earlier period of service in respect of which she had
deferred benefits. If that email had been acted on the transfer wouldve gone through before
the expiry date  13 March 2022. Groves failure to read that email cost her £27,000  the
difference between the original and later transfer values.
Grove didnt uphold the complaint. Groves position was that, from the information received
from the OPS, Grove understood Mrs A was an active member with a salary link. If she
transferred, shed be in effect opting out of the OPS which wasnt something Grove would
advise. After Mrs As IFA and Mrs As husband had said there were two periods of service
that werent linked and the OPS had confirmed that and that it had made an error, Mrs As
file was reopened. 
By then, less than two months of the guarantee period were left. Time was tight but Grove
had provided advice that Mrs A should leave her benefits in the OPS. For Grove to
potentially consider facilitating a transfer on an insistent client basis, matters wouldve
needed to have moved on rapidly which didnt happen. By the time Mrs A and Grove had
sufficient information to consider that, the transfer value had expired. Grove had paid for the
transfer value to be recalculated. And had asked the OPS to honour the £88,652 transfer
value. Grove had also offered to waive their fee.
Mrs A remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigatorslooked into what had happened but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said Grove had
confirmed the email sent by the OPS on 22 December 2021 had been read. Grove had
explained that Mrs As file was closed because the OPS incorrectly told Grove there was an
active salary link. The OPS had acknowledged theyd made a mistake by informing Grove
there was a salary link. Grove asked the OPS to honour the original transfer value because
of the mistake but the OPS refused. Because of the mistake made by the OPS a month was
lost so it was always going to be unlikely that Grove would be able to complete matters
before the transfer value expired. Grove wasnt responsible for errors by the OPS.
Grove had paid Mrs As recalculation fee despite it not being Groves fault the expiry date
was missed. And Grove had offered to waive Mrs As £2,950 fee. Mrs A hadnt suffered any
financial loss because no transfer took place and her deferred benefits remain in the OPS.
Mrs A didnt accept the investigators view. She provided an email account from the OPS
setting out how events transpired. Mrs A said it was unclear if Grove had read or even seen
the final email from the OPS on 22 December 2021. It seemed an assumption had been
made which was wrong. The confirmation phone call on 18 January 2022 shouldve been
made on 22 December 2021.
The investigator considered the further comments but she didnt change her view. She said
the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for further consideration. Both parties
made some additional comments.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Groves position is that it wasnt possible to meet the transfer value guarantee deadline
because the OPS misinformed Grove that there was a salary link between Mrs As two
periods of service. I accept, had there been, Grove would in effect be considering if Mrs A
should opt out of the OPS. I can see why Grove would decline to advise Mrs A to do that.
Ive considered if Grove was right to conclude, based on what the OPS had said, that there
was a salary link between Mrs As two periods of service. Thats certainly what the first email
sent on 22 December 2021 (at 10:41) said. And I think the OPS accepts that the initial
information given was misleading. But there were other emails, including the last email (sent
by the OPS at 16:20), which is the email Mrs A says Grove failed to read. Although the first
email from the OPS did indicate a salary link, I think the last email corrected that  it referred
to Mrs A having two records  one deferred (her service having ended in 1992) and the other
which had begun on 1 August 1999 and was still accruing benefits.
Despite all Grove has said, I agree with Mrs A that Grove shouldve realised from that email
that Mrs A had two separate periods of service and OPS membership  one deferred and a
second, current active membership. I dont know if Grove is suggesting the second email
wasnt received. But it was part of the same email chain and so I dont see any reason to 
suppose Grove didnt get it. If Grove did receive it and read it I think it clarified the position. I
note what Grove has said about not needing to go beyond what the OPS had told Grove. 
And that Grove was entitled to rely on information provided by the OPS. But, even if Grove
had initially understood, based on what the OPS had said, that there was a salary link
between both periods of membership, Grove needed to take into account any later and
updated information which might mean that what Grove had originally been told might not be
accurate.
In my view, from the last email sent on 22 December 2021, Grove shouldve realised thecorrect position. At the very least, and if there was any confusion, Grove shouldve contacted
the OPS for confirmation as to the precise position. Either way, I think it shouldve been clear
to Grove on 22 December 2021 that Mrs A would be transferring her deferred benefits in the
OPS which werent linked to her current salary. So there was no need for Grove to withdraw.
Grove says the admitted error by the OPS cost about a month  Groves file was closed on
22 December 2021 and reopened on 20 January 2022. As Ive explained, I dont think it was
an error on the part of the OPS. I think Groves file was closed due to an error or
misunderstanding on Groves part. As to how much time that cost, I bear in mind the
proximity to Christmas. Groves office would be closed from 12pm on Friday 24 December
2021, reopening on Wednesday 29 December 2021 but possibly with limited staff. There
were three working days that week until the office was closed again until 4 January 2022. So
its probably fairer to say that the time between Christmas and New Year wouldve been lost
anyway  I dont see much work wouldve been done on Mrs As case until Groves office
fully reopened in the New Year. So Id say that almost three weeks or so were lost. But that
was down to Grove, not the OPS, because Grove failed to properly read and understand the
last email sent on 22 December 2021 by the OPS.
Time can be tight when dealing with a defined benefit transfer. They are complex, highly
regulated and each step has to be checked by the firms compliance department. Grove did
manage Mrs As expectations about that. Even if there hadnt been any delay, three months
may still have been insufficient time to do all thats necessary. Here Grove had less than
that. But, and looking at how things actually happened once Grove had reopened Mrs As
file, Grove provided Abridged Advice on 9 February 2022 and Full Advice on 7 March 2022,
just under a week before the guarantee expiry date on 13 March 2022. So, if Grove hadnt
caused a three week delay, Full Advice couldve been given some three weeks earlier.
Mrs A wanted to proceed with a transfer when Groves advice was against. So she had to be
treated as an insistent client. That meant further steps had to be taken and there was
insufficient time left to complete those before the transfer value guarantee expired. In actual
time only a week was left. But, if there hadnt been a three week delay, that wouldve left four
weeks or so. I think in theory at least that wouldve been sufficient time for Mrs A to have
gone ahead with the transfer and taking into account the extra steps required because shed
have been proceeding on an insistent client basis.
Mrs As position is that shed have gone ahead with the transfer and by not being able to do
that shes lost out financially  the difference between the £88,652 and the lower transfer
value later quoted which I think was some £27,000 less. I understand why Mrs A says that.
The difference in transfer values would appear to be a financial loss. But, as Grove wasnt
prepared to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis for the new lower transfer value,
no transfer was completed and Mrs As deferred benefits remain in the OPS.
On that basis Mrs A hasnt suffered any financial loss  her benefits have been preserved at
the same level as previously. Mrs A will still get the benefits from the OPS to which shes
entitled in accordance with the rules of the OPS. Any transfer value quoted represents the
value of those benefits and the costs of buying equivalent benefits at that particular time. If
that cost has decreased (for example because of interest rate movements or because
annuity rates have increased) then the transfer value offered will be less. But that wont be a
financial loss as such. As Mrs A didnt actually transfer out then she hasnt crystallised any
loss as such. And I dont know what any future transfer value might be  it might be higher or
lower than the value originally quoted. Defined benefit pension transfer values seem to be
generally lower than previously at present and its impossible to predict whether transfer
values will increase this year or beyond.
Further, Im not sure, even if the three weeks or so hadnt been lost, that it wouldve beenpossible to secure the original transfer value of £88,652 before the guarantee period expired.
I said above that in theory it wouldve been but, although Grove was initially prepared to
facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis, Im not sure if a provider had been or
couldve been found whod have been prepared to take the transfer value. Given the
regulators position  that the starting point when advising about a defined benefit transfer is
an assumption that it wont be suitable  many providers are reluctant to accept a defined
benefit transfer from an insistent client. So I dont think its a given that Mrs A wouldve been
able to find a new provider anyway. But I mention that largely in passing as I dont think, as
she didnt transfer out of the OPS, that Mrs A has suffered any loss as her benefits are
preserved anyway.
Grove paid £145 plus VAT for a transfer value recalculation and offered to waive Groves fee
of £2,950 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs A pointed to the time it took Grove to obtain a new
transfer value. I can see, because Grove paid the fee, getting approval for that took time.
Mrs A says it wouldve been quicker for Grove to ask her to pay the recalculation fee direct
to the OPS. I think thats probably the case. But I dont see much turns on this though, as the
transfer didnt go ahead anyway. It seems that transfer values were falling and theres
nothing to suggest that if a new transfer value had been obtained earlier it wouldve been of
an amount sufficient to enable Grove to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis.
Im not sure if Groves offer to waive its fee remains open. But if not I dont think Mrs A
should have to pay Groves fees  the advice was deficient and the misunderstanding meant
that Mrs A may have lost out on the higher original transfer value  although, as Ive said,
even if that was the case I dont think that means shes suffered a financial loss. I recognise
that ordinarily a fee might be payable even if the advice cant be delivered within the three
month window. And regardless of whether the advice is positive in terms of a transfer or not.
But here I dont think it would be fair for Mrs A to have to pay a fee for advice which fell short
of the standard she was entitled to expect.
And although Im unable to say that Mrs A has suffered any financial loss, she was caused
distress and inconvenience by Groves poor handling of the matter. So I think Grove should
also pay her £750 as compensation for that. Ive decided on that figure because although I
cant say Mrs A has suffered any financial loss I can see why she says she did and I accept
that shed have been worried about the fall in the transfer values and the possibility she had
suffered a significant loss.
To sum up, I uphold the complaint. Grove should waive its fees and in addition pay Mrs A
£750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of Groves
poor handling of the matter. For the avoidance of doubt, the transfer recalculation fee of
£145 plus VAT which Grove has paid shouldnt be offset  Grove remains responsible for
that fee.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs A said and in summary:
It was correct that she wasnt out of pocket financially but the point of both her and 
her husband transferring out of the (same) OPS was the flexibility it wouldve given 
them as a couple to draw the income they required and still have substantial cash 
available at age 70 as shown on the spreadsheet theyd provided. 
A realistic figure for loss would be £45,000 between the two funds (that is the transfer 
value of about £292,000 paid in respect of Mr As OPS benefits and the transfer 
value of circa £88,000 issued for Mrs A on 13 December 2021 (which she was 
unable to accept before it expired). 
Grove shouldve acted with more urgency. Instead Mrs As husband had to do all the 
chasing and suggest that Grove use the phone rather than just rely on email. Mr A 
would email each Monday for an update to be told that Grove was due to chase that week. 
The compensation amounts should be higher to reflect the inconvenience not just for 
now but also for the future as the flexible plan is now unavailable. Mrs As and her 
husbands transfers were linked. A positive recommendation was given to Mr A 
based on the spreadsheet hed prepared setting out details of his and Mrs As 
financial position and a clear plan showing where the income was going to be coming 
from up to age 70. The adviser said hed try to do Mrs As Full Advice call the 
following week because the same decision would be made as it was a joint venture 
which the adviser understood. But the call was made by a different adviser who 
wasnt prepared to look at the spreadsheet Mr A had prepared. Even though the 
whole plan relied on both funds being transferred and leaving Mrs A as an active 
member of the OPS in respect of her current period of service.  
It wasnt the case that Grove had reopened Mrs As file on 20 January after calling 
the OPS about the salary link. What happened was that after Grove said the file was 
closed (on 4 January 2022) Mr A asked Grove to verify that because, as far as he 
was aware, there was no salary link to the deferred pension in respect of Mrs As 
membership which had ended in 1992. Mr A says he continually phoned and asked 
for this to be resolved but nothing happened. So he called the OPS administrators 
himself on 17 January 2022 and asked if they could email Grove explaining the 
situation which they did. They also said theyd already done that on 22 December 
2022. Mr A then called Grove to let them know but Grove said they couldnt locate 
the email so Mr A called the OPS administrators again and they repeated the email. 
Grove had said they had no record of getting the email on 22 December 2021. 
Grove was also unhappy with my provisional decision. It said Id made a fundamental 
mistake in blaming Grove and that responsibility rested with the OPS. Ive summarised 
Groves main points: 
Theres no dispute the OPS told Grove there was a salary link (the email timed at 
10.41 on 22 December 2021). That could only apply to a deferred period of 
membership. 
In the email timed at 13:21 Grove asked the OPS to clarify the pension split and the 
revaluation rate and why the previous information seemed contradictory. In reply (the 
email timed at 16:20) the OPS said Mrs A had two periods of membership, one of 
which was active. It didnt say there was no salary link and that an error had been 
made but simply confirmed what Grove already knew  that there was a period of 
deferred membership which must by default be the period to which the salary link 
applied. It wasnt reasonable to say that last email corrected the mistake. The OPS 
sent exactly the same email in January 2022 after Grove had reopened its file.
Grove had taken appropriate action. Grove told Mrs As IFA on 23 December 2021 
that Groves file had been closed and the reason. The IFA called Grove on 7 January 
2022 (which is understandable given the Christmas and New Year period). Grove left 
a message for Mr A the same day but he didnt get back to Grove until 17 January 
2022 when Grove gave him contact details for the OPS. Grove had also called the 
OPS the next day and the OPS confirmed it had made an error. Grove told Mrs A the 
file was being reopened. There was no reason for Grove to contact the OPS earlier. 
Grove had acted on information from the OPS and there was nothing to suggest it 
wasnt accurate. 
In any event Id concluded that the three week delay would likely have made no 
difference to the overall outcome as the advice (which entailed an enormous amount 
of work, the fee for which Id said should be waived and regardless of the advice 
being correct) was that Mrs A shouldnt transfer. Once shed asked Grove to pay the 
recalculation fee, Grove contacted the OPS and chased several times for an invoice 
to allow the fee to be paid. There was no delay in requesting the information from the OPS or payment.
Grove had offered to waive Mrs As fee as a gesture of goodwill after acknowledging 
the error by the OPS and Grove had paid the recalculation fee. In my provisional 
decision Id said, despite the three week delay, the original transfer value couldnt 
have been secured since the advice was not to proceed. Id said asking Mrs A to pay 
the recalculation fee might have been quicker but I didnt think much turned on that. 
Yet Id decided that fees amounting to £2,950 should be waived and a payment of 
£750 for inconvenience made.  
Grove quoted what we say on our website about when that sort of level of award 
might be made. Grove said the effect of my decision was that Mrs A would get 
compensation of £3,842 for being provided with Full Advice and when Id accepted 
that the three week delay (which Grove maintained had been caused by the OPS) 
had made no difference. That wasnt fair and reasonable. The offer to waive the fees 
plus pay the £142 recalculation fee is significantly more than sufficient compensation 
even if Grove had made a mistake (and which Grove hoped Id now agree they 
hadnt). Grove also referred to what our website says about awards of over £1,500 
and up to around £5,000. Grove said that didnt seem to apply here, bearing in mind 
Id accept the delay had made no difference to the original transfer value lapsing.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres some dispute about the details of what happened. I think Mrs As position was that 
Grove didnt see or read the last email from the OPS sent on 22 December 2021 timed at 
16:20. As I said in my provisional decision, the last email was part of the email chain that day 
and I dont see any reason to see why it wouldnt have been received. But, in any event, I 
think Groves position is that the email was received and read but it only told Grove what it 
already knew. And, in the absence of any indication that what Grove had been told earlier 
was wrong, it didnt change anything. 
Ive considered carefully all Grove has said about the emails sent on 22 December 2021. 
And Ive thought about the context in which Grove reasonably ought to have viewed them 
and what Grove should reasonably have deduced from them. Grove has stressed it had 
been told a salary link existed and that there had to be a period of deferred membership for 
that to be the case. But I think the term salary link is wide and could simply denote a defined 
benefit arrangement. So the email timed at 10.41 may just have been referring to Mrs As 
current active membership of the OPS and in respect of which there was a salary link. 
I maintain that the last email sent by the OPS on 22 December 2021 was an attempt to 
clarify matters. Id read that email as saying that there were two, separate, records and 
which werent linked. If they had been, the obvious thing wouldve been to say so in that 
email and go on to confirm how that link operated. The fact that the OPS sent the same 
email in January 2022 would tend to suggest that the OPS thought that its email had cleared 
things up.   
At best I think the position remained unclear. I think Grove shouldve gone back to the OPS 
and asked it to confirm the precise position. Grove was acting for Mrs A and it was up to 
Grove to iron out any possible areas of confusion. I dont see any reason to doubt, if Grove 
had reverted to the OPS and asked a direct question about any salary link between the two 
records or periods of membership, that the OPS wouldve confirmed there was no salary link 
between Mrs As deferred benefits and her current active membership.  Theres also a dispute about the time Grove took to contact the OPS after Grove had been 
told by Mr A that there wasnt any link. Mr A says he asked Grove to check things out with 
the OPS on 4 January 2022. But he says Grove didnt chase things up promptly and it was 
only when he contacted the OPS direct that it confirmed to Grove that Mrs A had two 
separate periods of membership which werent linked. I dont think its going to be possible to 
ascertain exactly what happened. Information from the OPS wont assist as it seems that 
either way Mr A and/or Grove didnt get in contact with the OPS until on or about 18 January 
2022  its what happened in the two weeks or so before then and if Mr A had been trying to 
get Grove to take some action. But as my view is that Grove shouldve contacted the OPS 
on receipt of the last email on 22 December 2021 to clarify things, nothing much turns on 
this. And I maintain that the three week delay was down to Grove. 
As to the impact of that time being lost, I said in my provisional decision that, but for the 
three week delay, thered have been sufficient time for Mrs A to have gone ahead with the 
transfer and taking into account the extra steps required because shed have been 
proceeding on an insistent client basis. My reference to that being in theory at least was a 
nod to what I said later about the need to find a provider who was prepared to accept a 
defined benefit transfer from an insistent client. I think my remarks here may have caused 
some confusion and if so I apologise. But I did say my comments were made in passing as I 
didnt consider that Mrs A had lost out financially by not transferring as her benefits are 
preserved in the OPS. To be clear, the award of £750 was made on the basis that, despite 
any difficulties that might have arisen, Mrs A wouldve been able to have secured the higher 
transfer value. Although its still my view that Mrs A hasnt suffered any financial loss by not 
transferring. 
However a reduced transfer value of £62,426.65 (a 30% reduction) would certainly have felt 
like a large financial loss and it was a missed opportunity. The award is intended to reflect, 
amongst other things, the disappointment Mrs A has suffered and the loss of expectation 
because the transfer didnt go ahead. Mrs A was keen to transfer, even if, because of the 
reduction in the transfer value, Grove couldnt give advice in favour of a transfer. Mrs A and 
her husband had made retirement plans based on both of them transferring with the main 
reason being the flexibility doing so wouldve afforded them. Although Mrs A hasnt suffered 
any financial loss her retirement plans have been disrupted.  
Against that background I dont agree that an award of £750 is inconsistent with the 
examples we give on our website. I think here the impact on Mrs A of losing out on the 
higher transfer value will have been significant and led to considerable uncertainty and 
anxiety as well as disappointment. Its fair to say the effect is long term given what Ive said 
about Mrs As retirement plans and the upset caused to her and her husbands preferred 
retirement strategy.   
Grove has also referred to what our website says about where an award of up to £5,000 
might be made. Grove has got to that higher figure taking into account the £750 plus Groves 
fees of £2,950 and the recalculation fee of £145 plus VAT which Grove offered to waive. But 
I dont think conflating fees and any distress and inconvenience award is justified. I said in 
my provisional decision that I didnt think it would be fair for Mrs A to have to pay a fee for 
advice which fell short of the standard she was entitled to expect. I think I should perhaps 
have said it was Groves service which was lacking. But the same principle applies. 
Ive considered if its fair for Grove to have to pay the £750 award, given the offer to waive 
fees. I think whether Grove was going to charge Mrs A for the work Grove did was largely a 
decision for Grove. Grove has said that its offer was made out of sympathy for Mrs A and 
because the OPS administrators got things wrong. I dont entirely agree with that and as Ive 
said I think Grove shouldve done more. I dont see any reason to interfere with Groves offer 
to waive Mrs As fees and which was made before this services involvement. And I maintain that a distress and inconvenience payment of £750 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ive explained. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Grove Pension Solutions Limited (having waived its fees and the 
recalculation fee) should pay Mrs A £750 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered 
as a result of Grove Pension Solutions Limiteds poor handling of the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman