DRN-3238326
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against their travel insurance policy. Reference to
Mapfre includes its agents.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 5 February 2020, Mr and Mrs C bought an annual travel
insurance policy for them and their four children. On 14 March 2020, they went on a
family trip which had a planned return date of 10 April 2020.
On 23 March 2020, the airline e-mailed Mrs C and told her that their return flights had
been cancelled in response to the covid-19 pandemic. In that e-mail, the airline offered a
credit for future travel, valid for 12 months from the date of issue.
Mr and Mrs C and their family extended their stay at their destination country and paid
for additional accommodation and new, repatriation flights. They returned home on
5 May 2020.
Mr and Mrs C made a claim against their policy. Mapfre paid Mr and Mrs Cs claim in
relation to additional accommodation costs and the repatriation flights, less a sum which
it said was the cost of the original flights.
Mr and Mrs C say that Mapfre should pay them the full amount of the repatriation flight
costs. They say that a family member, Mr H, paid for the original flights and received the
refund from the airline. Mr and Mrs C say that they paid for the repatriation flights
themselves.
In response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, Mapfre offered to pay compensation of £125 in
relation to delay in dealing with the claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Mapfre had
treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly in deducting the amount of the original return flights from
the settlement. The investigator thought it was fair that Mapfre pay for additional flight
costs, not flight costs they would have incurred in any event. She noted that Mr H had
received the refund in relation to the original return flight and said that was between him
and Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the investigators view
doesnt make sense as they didnt pay for the original return flights. Mr and Mrs C say
that its not fair to deduct the cost of the original return flights as they didnt benefit from
the refund to Mr H. They dont understand why the refund of the original flight costs to
Mr H affects their claim against their policy. Mr and Mrs C asked that an ombudsman
consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
In response to our enquiries, Mapfre said that it had calculated the refund incorrectly in
that it deducted £1,982.80 from the repatriation flight costs but it should have deducted
£1,430.80, which it said was the refunded amount for the original flights.
My provisional decision
On 24 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision. I said that I intended 
to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mapfre has referred to Mr and Mrs Cs claim as a claim for curtailment of their trip but I 
think thats an error. Thats because Mr and Mrs Cs trip wasnt curtailed, it was extended. 
And what happened here doesnt come within the listed events leading to curtailment which 
are covered under the policy.
In their claim form, Mr and Mrs C claimed under the travel delay provisions of the policy 
but what happened here doesnt come within the listed events leading to delayed 
departure, so that part of the policy isnt relevant to their claim.
The catastrophe provisions are relevant here and say as follows:
Section J: Catastrophe
What is Covered
We will pay You, up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule, in the event that the 
tour company is unable to assist and You are forced to move from the pre-booked 
accommodation as a result of fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, storm, tempest, 
hurricane, flood, tsunami, medical epidemic or local government directive which is 
confirmed in writing by local or national authority for irrecoverable travel or accommodation 
costs necessarily incurred to continue with the Trip or, if the Trip cannot be continued for 
Your return Home.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part. Whilst I dont think that Mapfre treated 
them unfairly in deducting the cost of the original return flights from their settlement, I think 
it made an error in calculating the settlement amount, which it should put right. I say that 
because:
Based on what Ive seen, its not clear to me that Mr H paid for the original flights 
for Mr and Mrs C and their family. The e-tickets Mr and Mrs C have provided in 
relation to their original flights show that they were issued in exchange for other 
tickets and that both Mrs C and Mr H paid the relatively small balances that were 
due.
Also, its not clear to me that Mr H received the refund for the original return 
flights. Mr and Mrs C have provided an extract of Mr Hs credit card statement 
which shows a credit from the airline, but the amount credited doesnt appear to 
relate to the costs of Mr and Mrs Cs original return flights.But even if I reached a different conclusion about that and was satisfied that  
Mr H paid for the original flights and received the refund, I dont think that 
Mapfre acted unfairly or unreasonably in deducting the cost of the original 
return flights from the settlement amount. Ill explain why.
One of the general principles of insurance is that, following an insured event, the 
insured should be put back, as far as possible, in the position they were in before 
the loss happened.
Based on what Mr and Mrs C say, before the airline cancelled their return flights, 
they had the benefit of a gift of the flights from Mr H. So, I think its fair that Mapfre 
takes that into account in calculating Mr and Mrs Cs loss and in putting them back 
into the position they were in before the loss happened. If Mr H has, in effect, 
withdrawn the gift, thats a matter between him and Mr and Mrs C and doesnt 
concern Mapfre.
Mapfre made an error in calculating the settlement amount in that it deducted
£1,982.80 for the original return flights but should have deducted £1,430.80. Its 
now agreed to put that right and pay Mr and Mrs C £552. As Mr and Mrs C have 
been kept out of the use of that money, Mapfre should also pay interest on that 
amount.
During the course of the complaint, Mapfre offered Mr and Mrs C compensation of
£125 in relation to its delay in dealing with the claim. I think thats fair in relation 
to Mr and Mrs Cs inconvenience in relation to this matter.
I said that I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part and to direct Mapfre to 
pay them £552 plus interest on that amount at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the 
date it settled their claim to the date it makes payment and compensation of £125 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mapfre said that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C didnt provide a 
response. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs C nor Mapfre have provided any substantive comments on my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Mapfre acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
deducting the cost of the original return flights from the settlement amount. But it made an 
error in calculating the settlement amount, which its now agreed to put right, with interest. I 
think that Mapfres previous offer of compensation of £125 in relation to its delay in dealing 
with the claim is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Mapfre should pay Mr and Mrs C the following amounts, if it has 
not already done so:£552 plus interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date it
settled their claim to the date it makes this payment,
compensation of £125 in relation to their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part. I now direct Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to take the steps Ive 
set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman