DRN-2732354
The complaint
Mr G complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr G took out two Lending Stream loans as follows:
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
1 08/09/2019 Not paid 6 £250 £76.63
2 22/10/2019 Not paid 6 £780 £ 343.64*
*this shows combined repayments for overlapping loans
Mr G said (in summary) that Lending Stream provided loans that were unaffordable and 
especially loan 2 shouldnt have been issued as it was clear he was struggling financially 
from the first loan. Mr G was also unhappy that his efforts to reach a reasonable settlement 
with Mr Lender hadnt proved successful. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Lending Stream told us about these loans.  
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Gs circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr G for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had any information which 
shouldve prompted it to check what Mr G had said in his loan applications. Or that the 
number of loans Mr G had taken out, the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed 
been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think he was 
having money problems. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Ill briefly summarised the main points of concern that Mr G has mentioned: 
given his poor credit history and the many times he defaulted on a loan in 2019 it was 
irresponsible to provide him with the second loan for a higher amount when he was 
clearly in financial difficulty - evident from the smaller loan that he took out 6 weeks 
earlier
repaying loans caused him problems and he had to borrow more money (as when 
seeking the second loan from Lending Stream)
Lending Stream seemed to ignore the very obvious signs of his financial problems 
i.e. borrowing a much higher amount very soon after a monthly repayment of his first 
smaller loan 
Lending Stream should have realised from the number of times Mr G borrowed in the 
past from 25+ lenders that his debt problems were getting worse. It was not 
responsible to continue to lend to him, in particular loan 2.
Lending Stream didn't carry out any financial checks such as asking to review bank 
statements.
Mr Gs several requests to freeze interest have never been accepted and his 
reasonable offers to settle the complaint have been rejected by Lending Stream
I acknowledge that Mr G feels very strongly about his complaint. If I have not referred to 
each point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what our 
adjudicator has said already. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points 
that affect the outcome of his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. After looking at the complaint afresh, Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Lending Stream provided Mr G with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr G before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I do appreciate that Mr G feels strongly that the second loan in particular should've never 
been issued given, he feels, that it was clear he was in financial difficulty. And I understand 
that he is also complaining about the interest and late fees not being frozen and Lending 
Streams refusal to agree to his settlement proposals.
Lending Stream told us it agreed to Mr Gs applications after carrying out affordability checks 
and it relied on information Mr G provided about his monthly income and expenditure and 
the results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr G and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mr G provided. 
From what I can see, Mr G declared his income as £2750 and told Lending Stream that his 
regular monthly expenditure was £860  which included £50 Mr G said he needed to pay for 
other credit. On the information that it appears Lending Stream gathered for this loan, it 
looked like Mr G should have around £1813 left after paying his monthly outgoings  so he 
should have had ample disposable income left over to cover the cost of the monthly 
repayments on this loan.
At this early stage, Mr G didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
I understand Mr Gs concern that Lending Stream doesnt seem to have taken into account 
the full details of his credit history. But I think its worth remembering that a lenders checks 
might only show limited information about whats on a borrowers credit file, or some data 
might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders 
report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between 
information shown in Mr Gs own credit report and the checks that Lending Stream carried 
out. 
The payment problems that arose after Mr G took out this loan wasnt something I think 
Lending Stream couldve reasonably foreseen. 
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances and his 
borrowing history at that time with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr G for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first loan. In other words, 
I wouldnt reasonably expect Lending Stream to have asked to see the credit report or bank 
statements that Mr G has sent me. 
So if that wasnt information that Mr G told Lending Stream about, then it wouldnt have 
known about it and I cant fairly say that Lending Stream shouldve known about it. So this is 
why Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loan 1. 
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr G took out loan 2 just six weeks or so after taking out loan 1  
and while he was still paying for loan 1. And he took out a significantly bigger loan this time. 
But I dont think Lending Stream wouldve had any reason to think that this additional loan or 
the amount he was borrowing overall wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr G  
even allowing for the fact that hed now be making bigger monthly repayments. And at this 
early stage in his borrowing relationship with Lending Stream, I dont think the fact that he 
was applying so soon to take out a much bigger loan suggested that he was having money 
problems or that it looked like he was depending on taking new borrowing to repay other 
loans. The total value of his credit with Lending Stream wasnt unreasonable for someone in 
Mr Gs apparent financial situation.
It seems Mr Gs declared income had gone down to £2,200, offset in part by the fact that it 
appears he told Lending Stream that his monthly costs were now £775, and he was paying 
£125 towards existing credit arrangements. I think those figures wouldve looked reasonable 
to Lending Stream based on the information it had gathered. I cant see that its checks 
revealed anything that shouldve been of concern. As Lending Stream worked out that Mr Gs disposable income would be in excess of £1000 
I think its fair to say that Lending Stream was reasonably entitled to think that loan 2 would 
still be sustainably affordable for Mr G  and the combined repayments shouldnt be a 
problem for him. 
When he was taking out loan 2, Mr G hadnt yet shown any signs that hed found it hard to 
pay for loan 1. The figures hed declared when he applied for this loan, and the information 
Lending Stream had collected, seem to me to support Lending Streams lending decision. 
So Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loan 2. 
To sum up, I think that Lending Stream gave Mr G fair opportunity to provide relevant 
information about his spending  and if he didnt mention all his other credit spending or the 
fact that he was struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect 
Lending Stream to have known this. The credit checks Lending Stream carried out didnt 
reveal anything that makes me think Lending Stream shouldve been prompted to probe 
more deeply into Mr Gs reasons for borrowing or take steps to verify what he was saying. 
And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information Lending 
Stream relied on when deciding whether to provide these loans. 
Im very sorry that Mr G has found repaying his borrowing difficult. Possibly his actual 
financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Lending Stream obtained. But I dont think that Lending Stream did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr G. 
did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Ive thought about what Mr G has said about the high cost of the loans. I think there was a 
large amount of interest payable on these loans and I can appreciate that he might now feel 
this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the loan agreements set out reasonably clearly 
both what the interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if the loans ran to term. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr G was aware he was taking high cost loans on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
And as far as I can see, Lending Stream hasnt treated Mr G in a way that I can fairly say 
hasnt been reasonable. The fact that other lenders have agreed settlement terms isnt a 
reason for me to say that Lending Stream is being unreasonable here. From what I've seen, 
Lending Stream appears to have engaged with Mr G when he has had payment problems, 
offering a discount for instance to help him repay his debt. And although I can understand 
that Mr G would like me to tell Lending Stream it must freeze interest and accept his 
proposed settlement terms, I havent seen enough to make me think that would be a fair 
outcome  bearing in mind that I must be impartial and fair to both parties. 
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party) that it should continue to 
discuss payment options with Mr G and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he still needs 
further time to pay any outstanding balances. 
And if Mr G would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr G but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman