DRN-3747361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that theyve been overcharged by Barclays Bank UK Plc
(Barclays) over a number of years for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their first insurance policy with Barclays in 2011 and the policy was
renewed each year. Mr and Mrs B contacted Barclays in autumn 2021, having been told by a
friend that they may be paying higher premiums than they needed to. They then received a
quote for an alternative policy with Barclays for £1,028. As the original renewal quote for
their policy for 2021/22 had been for around £2,460, they felt theyd been treated unfairly
and that their premiums had been increased over the years without good reason.
Mr and Mrs B wished to receive a full refund of premiums over £1,028, plus interest.
Barclays didnt accept this element of the complaint and said that it had correctly priced all
renewals. It said that the terms, ratings and pricing strategy and structures of old and new
policies differed, and that Mr and Mrs B had the right to decline a particular policy. Barclays
did however offer £50 in compensation in relation to certain administrative matters. Mr and
Mrs B were unhappy with this and referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Our investigator thought that
Barclays had priced the policy fairly each year in line with its pricing policy and thought that
Mr and Mrs B were treated in the same way as any other customer in similar circumstances.
Without shopping around or requesting a review of cost, our investigator considered that
prices generally keep increasing and customers could miss out on any new products. The
investigator accepted that the bank wouldnt proactively help customers get the best offer.
She said that although this may feel unfair, it was standard practice across the industry.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter was then 
referred to me for consideration in my role as Ombudsman. In September 2022, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Bs complaint as follows; -
The matter for me to determine is whether Barclays treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or
unreasonably during yearly renewals. Ive concluded on a provisional basis that Barclays
didnt acted fairly in all respects. Ill explain how Ive reached this provisional conclusion.
Insurance pricing practices and risk assessments do change over the years. When a
customer takes out a new policy, its often at a discounted price to the true cost of providing
the insurance, and sometimes the premium will increase over time to recoup that discount.
The fact that the price of an insurance policy has gone up and that there might be similar,
cheaper polices available elsewhere, doesnt necessarily mean something has gone wrong.
Nevertheless insurers still need to treat their customers fairly and reasonably. This means
that Barclays needed to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly when deciding what premium to charge at
each renewal. It needed to consider the extent to which Mr and Mrs B were engaging with
the renewal process and any reasons for failing to fully engage. I now turn to the evidence
and what Mr and Mrs B and Barclays say about the matter.
Mr B said hed queried premiums in 2021 as a friend told him he was paying too much. Mr
and Mrs B had been long-standing customers of Barclays. Having been alerted to a possible
issue, Mr and Mrs B thought theyd been charged substantially more than they were charged
in 2011 when they were paying just under £820 for their policy. They accepted that theyd let
their policy automatically renew as they trusted their insurer to be acting ethically in providing
the market rate. Mr B said that when he spoke to Barclays in autumn 2021, its representative
agreed that the premium was quite high and offered to look at another Barclays product that
might be cheaper. Mr and Mrs B considered it to be a like for like product with small 
variations but cost around £1,430 less.
Mr and Mrs B felt they hadnt been helped or advised by Barclays of a cheaper rate. Mr B
said; - I only get one letter a year and nothing to say there is a new policy or new covers. Mr
B said that he suffered from ill health and that the large increases had further affected his
health. In summary, he felt hed needlessly paid thousands of pounds over a decade and,
due to personal circumstances, his eye was not on the ball here. Mr B agreed that hed
previously asked why the prices kept rising. He said he was told that this was in response to
nationwide floods and the costs involved with claims. He felt that hed never received an
answer why there should be such a large difference on a like for like policy. Over the last
seven years, he said that hed paid over £20,000 for his insurance.
Barclays confirmed that Mr and Mrs Bs policy had been rated correctly and that the renewal
prices were correct. It stated that the premiums were calculated for the type of policy in
place, the cover selected, the information it held and its view of risk. It said the quote given in
autumn 2021 was on a new and totally different product, with different rating factors, and
couldnt be considered as a like for like comparison. It further explained that each product
had its own specific individual core set limits, terms and conditions, exclusions and rating
models based on the risk information we hold unique to that policy type. It said that this
meant that there could be large variances in premiums when comparing different policy
types. It said the cheaper quote given in 2021 was based on much more information and a
different pricing strategy. Factors such as protection of no claims discount, type of cover, the
excess amount and a previous claim such as in this case, could all lead to price differences.
As for a specific comparison with Mr Bs new policy purchased in 2022, Barclays provided
details of what it considered to be differences in cover. These included different excess
amounts, estimated rebuild costs, certain issues not included as add-ons, amount of cover
on certain items and protection of no claims discount. It said that all these differences could
make differences to the price and the way the policy was rated.
Barclays noted from its records that Mr and Mrs B had discussed their policy at times during
renewals. It acknowledged that this was sometimes to do with the number of adults living in
the property, however on occasion, it had also been to discuss the price of the policy.
Barclays considered that Mr and Mrs B had therefore been aware of renewal and price
issues. It said that it was each companys commercial right to charge what they feel is, the
correct premium based on the above information and as the customer, you have the right to
accept or decline the renewal invitation sent to you.
It said that it had informed Mr and Mrs B of alternative products within their renewal
invitations since 2015 as follows: - We have recently launched a new way to insure your
home and your possessions. You can now choose from a range of independent covers,
which may be better suited to your needs, and you may also be able to reduce the overall
cost of your cover. There is no obligation for you to switch your policy but if you would like a
quote, or want to discuss the cover options available, please visit It confirmed that its new
product quoted for in autumn 2021, was released in 2015. Barclays stated that since 2019, ithad also informed customers of the option to shop around as follows: - Please check this
cover still meets your needs. You have been with us a number of years. You may be able to
get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around.
In relation to one administrative matter, Barclays apologised for its departure from what it
referred to as its usually high standards of service. As a representative hadnt left a message
on Mr and Mrs Bs answering machine and due to wait times, it offered £50 in compensation.
In considering this case, Ill firstly explain that this service has a settled approach to inertia
cases. When consumers dont engage with the renewal process, dont shop around and
keep paying for insurance even when the price has increased significantly, the service
generally refers to this as insurance inertia. It recognises that there is then potential for
customers to lose out on the best available terms and prices and for a business to take
advantage of this inertia to increase premiums and profits. Whilst this isnt an exact science,
our general approach is that if a customer hasnt engaged with the insurer for over four
years, the relationship is then deemed to be inert.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances to understand whether this was a case of
insurance inertia. Ive therefore looked at the extent and nature of any engagement on
renewal, whether there was any barrier to Mr and Mrs B being able to engage and what has
prompted them to complain. Ive provisionally concluded that Mr and Mrs B didnt shop
around for the duration of their cover with Barclays. There was some dialogue between Mr
and Mrs B and Barclays on renewal in some instances. The question is whether that
dialogue amounted to conscious engagement about the price and alternative policies. In the
absence of telephone records, Ive carefully considered Barclays case notes.
There is little information about contact for the period 2011 to 2014. I note from the available
records that there was some dialogue between Mr and Mrs B in 2014 and that Mr B had then
complained about the price of his insurance and that this complaint was resolved. Contact in
2015 did not appear to relate to price but indicated that Barclays was aware of certain
personal difficulties being experienced by Mr B. In 2016, Barclays noted that Mr and Mrs B
called to discuss the renewal price and that they had indicated that they might have to look
elsewhere. At this point, certain adjustments were made to the policy and Mr and Mrs B
accepted an adjusted price. Apart from updating the number of adults at their property, it
appears that Mr and Mrs B didnt subsequently challenge the price of the policy.
In all the circumstances and on a provisional basis, I consider that the available evidence
points to insurance inertia in the light of the significant year on year increases in price and
limited engagement. Mr and Mrs B didnt shop around or consciously engage with Barclays
about cheaper policy options until autumn 2021.
The point when price increases for an inert consumer become unfair will vary from case to
case. The question of when the relationship became inert isnt an exact science. Whilst
there is evidence of challenge to the price in 2014, there is no evidence of any challenge to
the price in 2015. This was the year in which Barclays new product became available.
Again, theres evidence of a limited price enquiry in 2016, however that only resulted in slight
adjustments to the policy and there appears to have been no reference to a possible
cheaper alternative option in telephone contact. I therefore consider that insurance inertia
applied in this case from 2015 onwards.
I accept that Mr B was only alerted to a potential price issue in autumn 2021. Mr B candidly
stated that due to his difficult personal and health circumstances hed taken his eye off the
ball. He also accepted that he didnt call to ask for a better policy. On a provisional basis, Im
persuaded that Mr and Mrs B hadnt fully engaged with the renewal process as they thoughtthey were receiving competitive premiums and the best policy for their needs. As 
longstanding customers, they accepted on trust that they were receiving a favourable 
market rate. I consider that these factors were barriers to effective engagement, and that 
lack of engagement was likely to have led to higher premiums being charged than would 
otherwise be the case. Whilst they queried price on occasions, theyd understood that price 
increases were due to the industrys response to nationwide floods and that they were still 
being offered competitive insurance. I consider that if Mr and Mrs B had understood that 
there were cheaper comparative policies available, they would have opted for a cheaper 
policy.
I appreciate the renewal information provided by Barclays about possible cheaper policy
options. I also appreciate that Barclays wasnt acting as a broker, so I wouldnt expect it to
search the wider market for the best available price on behalf of its policy holders. However,
it did still need to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly regarding the premium it was charging. Based on
the evidence Ive seen, and due to Mr Bs personal circumstances, I consider that Barclays
should have realised by 2015 that Mr and Mrs B hadnt been shopping around for their
insurance cover or negotiating the best policy and price alternatives at renewal each year.
As Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays in 2014 about the price of its policy, I consider that
it would have been fair and reasonable for Barclays to have provided clear information in
subsequent years. In particular, it could have referenced the new product introduced in 2015
during the telephone contact in 2015 and in following years. This would have allowed Mr and
Mrs B to make a fully informed decision about price. I note from the case notes that during
renewal, some concessions and reductions had been made under the existing policy. There
is however no reference to any alternative policies or options. Whilst possible alternatives
had been referenced in recent renewal documentation, I dont consider that this was
particularly clear, or a substitute for information offered during telephone contact in this case.
Mr B hadnt appreciated from the renewal letter that there was a possible alternative policy.
Barclays representative properly and appropriately provided this information in autumn
2021, and I consider that it could fairly and reasonably have done so in previous years.
Barclays representative noted in 2021 that the premiums were quite high. I agree and
consider that the significant premium increases over 10 years should have alerted Barclays
that there was an issue here, particularly when Mr Bs personal difficulties were noted in
2015. I provisionally conclude that its fair that the extra premiums that Mr and Mrs B have
paid should be reimbursed. Ive therefore looked at the premiums that Mr and Mrs B have
paid through the life of the policy as well as the percentage increases each year. In 
summary, Ive noted that the premium was just under £810 in 2011, it was just under £1,315
in 2015 and had reached just under £2,245 by 2021 (albeit the premium in 2016 was less
than that in 2015). In this case, the cumulative premium increases are very significant, and I
consider it likely that Barclays were advantaged by inertia and that over the course of the
years, the premium increases became unfair.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs B have been treated differently to other
customers. I also appreciate that different products are rated differently depending on
approach to risk and that any claims, level of cover and excess levels all affect the price
which an insurer may charge. Not all price increases are unfair and a policy that has run for
over 10 years is likely to see some increase in price due to inflation and other general
increases in cost. Home insurance prices have however remained relatively stable between
2005 and recent years, based on industry wide information and Consumer Price Index data.
In this context, I dont consider that Barclays has provided sufficient evidence to explain this
very significant cumulative increase. Nor do I consider that the reasons given for the
difference in price for the new and old policies adequately explain the extent of the 
difference. When this is the case, our approach is that its likely that the customer has been
treated unfairly and wed expect the business to compensate for this.In summary, its not for us to tell an insurer how to price its policies. However, where a
consumer is effectively inert and there are barriers to full engagement as in this case, the
insurer needs to show that it has acted fairly and reasonably in increasing premiums year on
year. My provisional conclusion is that Barclays hasnt been able to provide sufficiently
persuasive reasons to explain the increases. Neither do I consider that it did enough to
highlight alternative policy options in the circumstances of this case. I therefore consider that
it would be fair for Barclays to refund the difference between the quote for the new product of
£1028 given in autumn 2021 and the sum they paid every year from 2015, together with
interest. I appreciate that the equivalent policy may have been cheaper in 2015 as prices do
tend to increase year on year. I consider this to be a fair outcome in all the circumstances
however, bearing in mind the fact that the 2021 quote will have been given on the basis of
additional information and a different rating strategy.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Barclays and Mr and Mrs B if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have accepted the provisional decision and havent provided any further 
submissions or evidence. Barclays have however provided additional evidence in the form of 
telephone call records and also comprehensive submissions. I have listened to all calls and 
considered the submissions submitted by Barclays in detail.
Barclays say that When a customer calls into the centre to discuss their policy, these calls 
are customer led and we are non-advisory. If the customer calls to cancel their policy and if 
we think another product may be suitable, we may mention the new product then. This 
approach is noted, however a fair and reasonable approach would be for the insurer to be 
alert to customer inertia and take a more proactive approach, not only when they call to 
cancel but also when they renew their insurance at a significant increase in premiums.
In its response to the provisional decision, Barclays does acknowledge Mr Bs health 
concerns and makes the point that if Mr B was unable to deal with insurance matters due to 
this, then Mrs B as a person named on the policy, could have engaged with Barclays or 
nominated a friend or a family member to discuss the policy on their behalf. It didnt therefore 
consider Mr Bs ill-health to be a barrier to engagement. This is a valid response. It doesnt 
however alter my ultimate conclusion that there remained underlying barriers to engagement 
notwithstanding Mr Bs health issues. Mr and Mrs B hadnt fully engaged with the renewal 
process as they thought they were receiving competitive premiums and the best policy for 
their needs and, as longstanding customers, accepted on trust that they were receiving 
favourable rates. 
Barclays make the point that it didnt know where the friend who alerted Mr B to the issue 
lived and that his/her policy might not be comparable. I agree, however the provisional 
decision did not turn on this point. A relevant comparable policy was quoted for by Barclays 
in 2021. It also stated that it was standard industry practice for a customer to receive only 
one letter a year. Again however, the provisional decision did not turn on this point.
As to the level of contact by Mr B, Barclays stated that Mr B had contacted it nearly every 
year, either to discuss his renewal price or to add items onto the policy. It provided details 
of historical contact it had with Mr B including his dissatisfaction with the price quoted in 
2014 and its subsequent letter informing him that the price was correct. In 2015 the telephone call on renewal was about a range of issues including occupancy but Mr B was 
happy to go ahead with the revised price. The representative said that if Mr B had any 
questions he should call. There was a subsequent call from Mr B about employment issues. 
At 2016 renewal, Mr B wanted an explanation for an increase in price and this was 
explained, to include the fact that flood re had come into effect and changes in cover. It was 
also explained that there could be no discount due to a recent claim on the policy. Mr B said 
he might get a quote elsewhere and then due to changes in excess amount he was quoted 
an amount which Mr B was happy to accept. In 2017 and 2018, Mr B was happy to renew 
the policy without discussion about the price being high.
The provision of detailed information by Barclays regarding the level of telephone contact is 
appreciated and is helpful in providing a fuller picture of events. Nevertheless, this doesnt 
alter the provisional conclusion that by 2015, it should have been apparent that Mr and Mrs 
B hadnt been shopping around for their insurance cover or negotiating the best policy and 
price alternatives at renewal each year. Ive also noted that in 2015, Barclays became aware 
that Mr B was struggling with an issue at work and had that hed sought help and advice 
from it which supports Mr Bs contention that hed taken his eye of the ball.
Barclays have referenced the services approach to CPI figures suggesting little change in 
home insurance premiums over time and states that this is not a realistic measure of what 
inflationary factors are impacting...  It acknowledges that home insurance has been a very 
competitive market for many years, however it states that the cost of claims and of servicing 
such policies has increased dramatically. It states that annual claims inflation runs typically 
at 4% to 5% and gives a very detailed list of factors which can influence inflation, and which 
are outside its control. It describes how different insurers have tackled this issue. It explains 
however that Barclays had chosen to maintain customer outcomes should they be 
unfortunate enough to need to use our product. It concludes that CPI is not a realistic 
measure to assess the inflationary factors impacting insurance claims. 
Barclays has also provided its predicted claims ratio as a percentage of premiums across six 
years from 2016 and it says it was clear that it had made a loss in this instance and was not 
able to cover its commission and expenses. It considered that the customer had received 
great value for money over the last six years.
Whilst Barclays detailed arguments about claims inflation are noted and appreciated, it 
hasnt however taken the opportunity to provide further evidence to explain the specific 
calculations leading to the very significant cumulative increase in the case of Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy. Neither has it taken the opportunity to provide a breakdown to fully and adequately 
explain the specific reasons for the difference in price for the new and old policies. Apart 
from general reference to addition of protected no claims discount, a particular claim, 
removal of an item and increases in excess amounts, no specific breakdowns and 
explanations have been given for significant increases in premiums year on year. The 
provisional decision noted that; When this is the case, our approach is that its likely that the 
customer has been treated unfairly and wed expect the business to compensate for this. 
When a business cant demonstrate why its increased the price when a customer is inert, 
we think its likely that theyve been treated unfairly and wed expect the business to 
compensate that customer.
Barclays concludes by stating that due to the level of contact from Mr B, it couldnt agree that 
this was a case of inertia and considered that Mr and Mrs B were well aware that they could 
shop around. Having carefully considered Barclays further submissions, whilst finely 
balanced, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B didnt fully engaged with the renewal process as 
they thought they were receiving competitive premiums and the best policy for their needs. 
As longstanding customers, they accepted on trust that they were receiving a favourable market rate. I consider that this amounted to customer inertia and Mr and Mrs Bs loyalty 
had become a barrier to effective engagement. I also conclude that if Mr and Mrs B had 
understood that there were cheaper comparative policies available, they would have opted 
for a cheaper policy. When a business cant clearly and specifically demonstrate why its 
increased the price during customer inertia, we think its likely that theyve been treated 
unfairly, and wed expect the business to compensate them.
This services approach to inertia was designed to respond to a potentially problematic 
business practice in home insurance which wasnt always leading to good outcomes and fair 
treatment for consumers. It had been found that consumers whod been with the same 
insurer for many years often paid more for their insurance than those who shopped around. 
In all the circumstances, whilst I appreciate Barclays efforts to clarify its approach, Ive 
concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
matter. As we cant be sure what a customer may have paid for their insurance if theyd 
shopped around or engaged about the price, we then look at what fair compensation might 
look like to put right any unfairness. Again, I consider that the provisional decision provides a 
fair and reasonable compensation outcome in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and require Barclays Bank 
UK Plc to do the following: -
- to refund the difference between the price for the product quoted for in autumn 2021 of 
£1028, and the price they paid for their policy each year between 2015 and 2021.
- to pay interest on the difference, at the annual rate of 8% simple interest* from the date of
each relevant annual payment to the date of settlement.
- *If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman