DRN-2905369
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds refusal of a 
claim under the legal expenses insurance section of her home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs H submitted a claim to DAS, as she wanted to take legal action 
against her neighbour for causing damage to her property. Mrs H said that a problem with 
her neighbours garden wall was causing rainwater to collect around her property, which was 
causing cracking. DAS appointed one of its panel of pre-approved solicitors to assess the 
claim. 
The solicitors said there was no independent evidence that the neighbours wall was the 
cause of any damage to Mrs Hs property and that it would need a surveyors report to be 
carried out to establish this. It said this would cost around £500 plus VAT and Mrs H would 
have to pay for it herself.
Mrs H contacted DAS for clarification about this and it confirmed that without the report, the 
solicitors said they couldnt establish the claim was covered under the policy. DAS said it is a 
pre-requisite of cover that any claim needs to have a more than 51% chance of succeeding 
and, without a report, there was not enough evidence the wall was the cause of any damage 
and that any legal claim would therefore be likely to succeed.
DAS told Mrs H that if the report confirmed her case had reasonable prospects of success, it 
would reimburse her for the cost. There was then some further communication. DAS 
maintained its position on the report, however, it offered Mrs H £150 compensation for 
delays in responding to her queries about cover. 
Mrs H is very unhappy with this and queries why it took so long to tell her she needed a 
surveyors report. She also says she asked DAS numerous times to move her case to a 
different solicitor, as they were not making any progress but it didnt; and she had trouble 
contacting DAS and the solicitors. Mrs H says she had to call DAS 10 times. 
Mrs H says that after this she went to the council, who wrote to her neighbour and the issue 
is now resolved; she wants DAS and the solicitors to learn from this and improve their 
customer service. 
DAS says it has no record of Mrs H asking to change solicitors. It says the first call from her 
after she lodged her claim, was on 13 November 2020 to enquire about the surveyors 
report. It also says all calls and emails were responded too, albeit there was some delay 
which it already acknowledged. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld as she was satisfied that DAS was not acting unreasonably in refusing the claim 
without some evidence about the cause of the damage to Mrs Hs property. She also 
considered the £150 offered was reasonable to reflect the trouble caused by the delays in 
responding to Mrs H. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been referred to me. 
Mrs H has asked for me to contact her by phone to discuss the case before issuing my final 
decision. Deciding ombudsmen dont routinely talk to either party to the complaint, as 
fairness would usually require that both parties be involved in any discussion at the same 
time. As the investigator already explained, we may decide it is necessary to do so, if there 
is information that is unclear or a dispute about the facts of the case that we consider can 
only be clarified by discussing it with the parties. Mrs H has made her case clearly both in 
writing and verbally to the investigator, and I have been provided with all the correspondence 
and communications between Mrs H and DAS. The evidence and positions of both parties is 
sufficiently clear and so I dont consider it is necessary to discuss this case with the parties 
in order to fairly determine the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy says: 
We will cover the costs and expenses for your legal rights in a civil dispute relating to your 
principal home following: 
An event which causes physical damage to such material property
A legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with your use or enjoyment of 
your land, or some right over, or in connection with it. 
Trespass.
However, Mrs Hs policy, like all other legal expenses insurance policies, also requires any 
legal case to have a reasonable chance of succeeding in court in order to be covered under 
the policy. The policy specifies that this be a 51% or more chance of the legal case 
succeeding. This is not unusual or unfair. 
The solicitors said that without some independent evidence about what was wrong with the 
neighbours wall and that it was the cause of the damage to Mrs Hs property, it could not 
confirm that any legal case against the neighbour was likely to succeed. Ive not seen any 
other evidence to suggest this was unreasonable. In the first instance, its for the 
policyholder to show they have a valid claim. Mrs H might have felt the cause of the damage 
to her property was obvious but I am not persuaded it was unreasonable to require 
independent evidence of the cause before agreeing to provide cover. 
DAS queried the matter with the solicitors and also confirmed it would reimburse Mrs H for 
the cost of any report, if it confirmed she had a legal case against the neighbour. I consider 
this was a reasonable approach. 
Mrs H is also unhappy with the time taken for the solicitors and DAS to deal with the matter.  
It took the solicitors some weeks to tell Mrs H she needed to get the report. I note they say it 
was agreed the neighbour would be given time to act but it also appears the case-handler 
was on leave for some of the time. The solicitors were assessing if there was a valid claim 
under the policy and so were acting on behalf of DAS during this period. I have not seen any 
evidence that Mrs H asked to change solicitors however. Mrs H contacted DAS on               
13 November 2020 to query the solicitors request for her to get a surveyors report. DAS 
contacted the solicitors the same day to clarify if the report was needed to be able to 
establish a case against the neighbour. DAS confirmed that the solicitors said the report was needed to establish the legal case against the neighbour and therefore that Mrs H would 
need to pay for it, but would be reimbursed if it was supportive, on 25 November 2020.  
However, Mrs H was also given some conflicting information at times and I can also see she  
had to chase up responses from DAS at times. 
Overall, I do consider the time taken to assess the claim was too long and the service 
provided was not as Mrs H was entitled to expect. However, I consider the £150  
compensation already offered is sufficient to address this and is in line with the awards we 
would make for similar cases.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, as I am satisfied DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited has already made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman