DRN-3145484
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W complain that Financial and Legal Insurance Company Ltd (FLIC) have 
unfairly declined a claim for Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to FLIC, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
Mrs W is the policyholder, and Mr B is able to claim on the policy, so its appropriate that this 
is a joint complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr B. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In around 2011 Mr B was involved in an 
accident at work. He later pursued a claim for personal injury using a firm of solicitors Ill 
refer to as W. This progressed between 2014 and 2019 when the claim settled for far less 
than Mr B thought it should have. He believes that during 2017 W messed up the legal 
action resulting in him not getting the settlement he deserved. 
Until February 2018 (when the policy lapsed) Mr B had the benefit of insurance for certain 
legal expenses which was provided by FLIC. In June 2020 Mr B made a claim to FLIC. He 
wanted to pursue W for professional negligence. FLIC declined the claim. In summary they 
said that the policy had lapsed some time ago and that it only provided cover for claims 
made during the period of insurance. Mr B complained and FLIC maintained their position. 
They added in their complaint response that Mr B hadnt evidenced his claim had the 
required prospects of success.
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary he thought FLIC had acted within the policy terms and fairly when 
declining the claim. Mr B disagrees, he doesnt believe prejudice has been caused to FLIC 
and that they should therefore further consider his claim. The complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy says there is only cover if the claim is reported during the period of insurance. 
This is what is known as a claims made policy. It only provides cover for claims that are 
made whilst the policy is in place. This is a common term in this type of insurance and not 
something that I think is unfair. 
Mr Bs policy with FLIC ended in February 2018 and his claim wasnt made until over two 
years later in June 2020. Clearly, the claim was made outside of the period of insurance and 
so in line with the above term, it isnt something that is covered. So this isnt a case of a late 
notification of a claim that would otherwise have been accepted. As has been made clear 
above, the policy only covers claims made during the period of insurance. Outside of that, no 
cover is available. I dont think FLIC acted outside the policy terms when declining the claim 
on that basis. Ive gone on to think about whether this is a fair outcome. 
There are times, when an insured person has continuous LEI cover through different 
insurers, and they end up with both saying a claim isnt covered. Normally one insurer will 
say its because the insured event pre-dates their policy and the other insurer will say the 
claim has been reported outside their period of cover (on a claims made policy). So there will 
be occasions where Id think it fair and reasonable that one of the insurers accepts the claim. 
Mr B has said he has had continuous LEI cover, but he isnt willing to evidence this. He also 
says that he hasnt made a claim to his new insurer because he doesnt believe he would be 
covered. Taking this into account, in the circumstances of this complaint, there is nothing 
which persuades me it is unfair for FLIC to decline the claim in line with the policy term 
referred to above.
I note that FLIC also said Mr B hadnt evidenced his claim had reasonable prospects of 
success nor sufficiently evidenced the date that the alleged negligence took place. I agree 
that Mr B hasnt specifically highlighted what he believes the negligent act to have been and 
when it took place (beyond saying he believes this to be in November 2017). And it appears 
he is generally unhappy with the service he received from W and him achieving a lower 
settlement than he expected.
It is for Mr B to evidence that he has a valid claim under the policy. So, Id expect him to 
provide a clear case for what W did (and when) that amounted to negligence. Had he done 
so, Id then have expected FLIC to obtain an assessment as to the prospects of the intended 
legal action succeeding. But I dont need to comment on this in detail because I think the 
claim has been fairly declined because it was made outside the period of cover. And Mr B 
hasnt evidenced that he had continuous cover which would lead me to think FLIC should do 
more. But even if the claim had been made within the period of cover, I dont think Mr B has 
substantiated that W were negligent and that this negligence took place at a time he was 
covered by the policy with FLIC. 
For the reasons explained above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mr B or Financial and Legal Insurance Company Limited, Im not intending to uphold this 
complaint.
FLIC didnt respond to my provisional decision beyond acknowledging its receipt. Mr B 
responded with further comments which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an 
opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Mr Bs submissions relate to other complaints he has had with our service which 
were decided in his favour. Ive considered these but each case is decided on its individual 
merits. Whilst I acknowledge there are some broad similarities between the complaints, Ill 
only be commenting on this complaint about FLIC. 
Mr B says that this is a case of late notification and that what Ive said in this regard so far is 
incorrect. Mr Bs policy requires that a claim is notified immediately. But this isnt a case where FLIC are saying the claim isnt covered solely because of a delay in reporting (within 
the period of cover). Its also because the claim wasnt notified whilst the policy was still in 
force. 
Mr B accepts that his claim wasnt made within the period of insurance. But hes pointed out 
that not all claims can be. Some failings might only come to light later on, only then enabling 
someone to have knowledge of something that occurred previously. I understand and accept 
this. But the policy in this case doesnt provide cover for these circumstances. For a claim to 
be valid, it must be reported within the period of insurance. 
Claims made policies are common to this type of insurance and allow an insurer to limit the 
risk they are insuring against. I dont think this is unfair. As Mr Bs claim wasnt made within 
the period of insurance, Im satisfied it falls outside the policy terms for cover.
I explained in my provisional decision that there are some circumstances where despite the 
policy terms, it might be fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim. But there must 
be a good argument for doing so based on fairness. Mr B has repeated that he has had 
continuous LEI cover  but he has still declined to provide any evidence of this or of any 
claim being made on other policies. Mr B was also afforded a short extension to the deadline 
for submissions in response to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr B feels that doing so is a waste of his time as he says he knows further 
policies wouldnt cover him for events that predate their existence. This is a decision Mr B is 
entitled to make. But in the absence of evidence (beyond Mr Bs testimony) of the existence 
of such policies  Im not persuaded to ask FLIC to do more. I think it is fair for them to rely 
on the policy term about claims made during the period of insurance to decline the claim.
Mr B has also provided some further evidence to support when he says the alleged 
negligence took place. Ive considered this, but there is no merit in commenting further on it 
as Im satisfied FLIC declining the claim for the above reason is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman