DRN-2750028
The complaint
R complains that it didnt get online or paper statements from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
What happened
R had a current account with Barclays. Between October 2017 and June 2019, it didnt get 
any online statements from Barclays. Barclays mailed it replacement paper copies in 
January 2021.
R complained  it needed to download the statements in order to give them to its accountant 
for the preparation of its annual accounts. Because of what happened, the accounts were 
delayed. And Rs director had to cancel some work to sort things out with Barclays. When 
Barclays agreed to send out paper statements for the period, they didnt arrive.
Barclays said that the issue arose because paper statements had been returned gone 
away. And  because of this, the account was marked so that they werent sent to the 
wrong address. And, that also stopped online statements. After Rs director got in touch with 
them, theyd organised to send out paper statements. They could see that theyd been 
ordered but couldnt be absolutely certain theyd been despatched. So, they paid 
compensation of £25 for that. They were sent out again in January 2021.
R brought its complaint to this service. Out investigator said he thought Barclays had acted 
fairly. He was satisfied with Barclays explanation as to why the online statements werent 
generated. R hadnt brought forward any evidence of costs or losses relating to what had 
happened. He also considered that Barclays payment of £25 for the missing paper 
statements was reasonable under the circumstances.
R asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
R says it was inconvenienced as it needed its printed statements to give to its accountant so 
its end of year accounts could be prepared. Because they werent available online, Rs 
director had to spend a lot of time trying to get through to Barclays to sort things out. And 
when Barclays offered to send out replacement copies  they didnt arrive, so R had to 
chase Barclays again.
Barclays told us that the online statements werent available to R between October 2017 and 
June 2019 because theyd had post returned to them marked gone away. In those 
circumstances, they stopped all paper correspondence (including statements) being sent out 
 for security reasons. This, in turn also meant that online statements were stopped. Ive 
seen Barclays records  and Rs account address was marked gone away at that time. 
These safeguards are part of Barclays operating processes  and I cant say theyre wrong 
in doing this. All banks, including Barclays, have a duty to prevent fraud and identity theft  
and these processes are part of that. I cant see that R was inconvenienced in its trading 
during the period  as it was only much later when Rs director got in touch with Barclays 
about it  some time later, in June 2020. We asked Rs director for evidence of costs 
incurred as a result of what happened. He said hed had to cancel an order to spend time on 
the problem  but didnt provide any evidence of this that we were happy with. And we could 
see from Companies House records that Rs accounts were filed in time  so there was no 
fine incurred there. No other evidence was brought forward by R.
I considered what happened when Barclays agreed to send out the paper statements for the 
period. Rs director says they werent received. So, Barclays re-ordered them, and they were 
sent in January 2021. Barclays said theyd been ordered  but couldnt prove categorically 
they were despatched  so on balance, they accepted what Rs director had said, sent 
another set and paid compensation of £25. On balance, I think that was reasonable. 
Rs director says he spend a long time on the phone to Barclays trying to sort matters out. 
But, Barclays have said they only have records of one call and one email from Rs director. 
Again, on balance, while clearly Rs director did have to contact Barclays, and this wouldve 
been frustrating, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to make an additional 
award of compensation here.
So  and Im sure that R will be disappointed by my decision, I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman