DRN-2859341
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) didnt do enough to prevent its loss when it sent a payment of £3,600 to one of 
their customers as a result of a scam.
Mrs A, who is a director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf. But for ease of reading Ill 
refer to Mrs A throughout rather than M. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary of some key events here.
In November 2019 Mrs A was tricked into sending £3,600 to an account held with Cashplus. 
Mrs A thought she was in communication with a pharmaceutical company, who Ill refer to as 
B, from whom she was looking to purchase some supplies. The goods didnt arrive, and the 
seller stopped responding to calls and messages. 
Mrs A contacted B using an alternative contact number shed found. She was told that the 
person she was communicating with was not a representative of B. Mrs A realised shed 
likely been the victim of a scam at the hands of someone purporting to be B. She reported 
the matter to her bank, who contacted Cashplus. Cashplus responded to advise no funds 
remained to be returned. 
Unhappy with Cashplus response Mrs A complained that it had allowed a fraudster to open 
and operate an account. She asked Cashplus to reimburse her loss. Cashplus sympathised 
with Mrs A being a victim of an alleged scam but didnt agree to refund the loss. In short it 
said for data protection reasons its unable to share third party details, but it has systems 
and controls in place that are compliant with regulatory standards, to both identify and verify 
every account applicant, and monitor all potentially high-risk transactional activity.
Mrs A was not satisfied with the explanation provided by Cashplus. The complaint was 
referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend that Cashplus needed 
to do anything further. She was satisfied Cashplus couldnt reasonably have done more to 
prevent, or respond, to the alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud. 
Mrs A disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Let me say, first of all, Im sorry to hear Mrs A has been the victim of a scam and I do 
sympathise with the situation in which she has found herself. I can see she acted in good 
faith and carried out checks before making the payment. So I do understand why she thinks 
its unfair that she should bear the loss. Ultimately Mrs A has suffered her loss as a result of 
the fraudsters actions. And I cant reasonably ask Cashplus to reimburse those losses 
unless it can fairly be said that its acts or omissions failed to prevent that loss. So what I 
have to decide is whether or not Cashplus reasonably did enough to prevent, or respond to, 
the alleged APP fraud. 
Cashplus has shared relevant information with this service in confidence to allow us to 
discharge our investigatory functions and has provided that which is necessary for the 
determination of this complaint. But Im also limited to how much of this I can share for the 
same reasons as Cashplus. But Id like to assure Mrs A Ive carefully reviewed everything 
before reaching my decision. 
I appreciate Mrs A feels Cashplus should refund her loss as it allowed a fraudster to open 
and operate an account. But an account later found to have been utilised to misappropriate 
funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it mean that the 
recipient bank failed to prevent the loss. What I need to consider is whether, at the time of 
opening the account, the bank ought reasonably to have known that the account being 
opened would later be used fraudulently. And in the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Cashplus correctly followed their account opening procedures, carried out 
checks to verify the identity of the named account holder and did its due diligence when 
opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably 
couldve alerted Cashplus that the account it was opening would later be used to 
misappropriate funds. So Im satisfied it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mrs As loss 
when opening the account.
 
Ive also considered whether there was anything prior to Mrs As notification that ought to 
have alerted Cashplus to the possibility of fraud. Im satisfied none of the account activity 
ought to have stood out to Cashplus as unusual or suspicious. So I cant fairly say Cashplus 
missed an opportunity to prevent Mrs As loss here either. 
 
I appreciate Mrs A feel strongly that her payment was intended for B and that Cashplus 
should have checked that the payee name matched the account holders before crediting the 
account. However, at the time the payment was made, if the funds were credited to the 
specified account number and sort-code the payment was executed correctly. Im satisfied 
that was the case here. There was no requirement for receiving banks to check whether the 
name on an account matched the named payee. So Im unable to fairly say that Cashplus 
should have checked the account name before crediting the funds to their customers 
account. 
Im also satisfied that Cashplus responded appropriately when notified of the alleged APP 
fraud. Unfortunately, however, by the time Cashplus had been told that Mrs As payment had 
been made as a result of a scam, Mrs As funds had already left the beneficiary account. So 
I dont think there were any failings that prevented Mrs A recovering her money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman