DRN-3685001
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G are unhappy with the service they received from Nationwide Building Society 
surrounding the removal of restrictions that had been applied to their account.
What happened
Mrs and Mr Gs accounts were restricted by Nationwide on 19 February 2021 as a result of 
an attempted fraudulent transaction. In order to remove the restrictions, Nationwide required 
Mrs and Mr G to visit a Nationwide branch with identity verification documents, which Mrs 
and Mr G did on 22 February 2021. However, Mrs and Mr Gs account remained restricted 
until 18 March 2021, even though Mrs and Mr G made concerted efforts after 22 February to 
resolve the situation. Mrs and Mr G werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. They acknowledged that the account 
restrictions should have been removed following Mrs and Mr Gs branch visit on 22 February 
2021, and they apologised to Mrs and Mr G for this and made a payment of £225 to them as 
compensation for any trouble and upset incurred. Nationwide later increased this 
compensation payment by a further £100, so that a total of £325 compensation was received 
by Mrs and Mr G.
Mrs and Mr G didnt feel that Nationwides response went far enough, and felt that a 
payment in the region of £10,000 would provide fairer compensation for the impact that 
Nationwides error in not removing the restrictions when they first should have done had had. 
So, they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
Nationwide had already issued to Mrs and Mr G, including the £325 total compensation 
amount, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what had happened.
Mrs and Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide dont dispute that the restrictions on Mrs and Mr Gs accounts should have been 
removed following their visit to branch on 22 February 2021, or that Mrs and Mr G incurred 
both inconvenience and upset by the restrictions not being removed from their accounts until 
approximately four weeks later. And Nationwide have apologised to Mrs and Mr G for this 
and have paid compensation totalling £325 to them as a result.
Mrs and Mr G dont feel that the compensation amount paid by Nationwide takes due 
account of the impact of Nationwides mistake on them and their family. And its notable that 
following Mrs and Mr Gs visit to branch on 22 February 2021, that Mrs and Mr G did make 
further visits to branch at Nationwides request, and also made further efforts to try to regain 
access to their accounts, none of which should have been necessary, had Nationwide 
removed the restrictions from the accounts when they first should have done.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But having 
considered the full circumstances of this complaint, I do feel that the £325 total 
compensation already paid by Nationwide to Mrs and Mr G is a fair amount in this instance, 
and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would have instructed Nationwide to 
have paid, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position Ive considered the impact that I feel these events would likely 
have had on Mrs and Mr G, including that they had large purchases that they were 
prevented from making, that they were able to borrow money from friends and family to 
alleviate the financial impact of not being able to access their accounts, and that Nationwide 
allowed Mrs and Mr G to transfer £1,000 to another account in early-March, before the 
restrictions on their account had been lifted. 
Ive also considered that Mrs G is unhappy that on one occasion when she contacted 
Nationwide that they refused to update her on the situation, and instead advised that they 
needed to speak with Mr G, even though the accounts were jointly held. I can appreciate 
why Nationwide wanted to speak with Mr G, given that fraudulent attempt to withdraw money 
from their account had been undertaken by someone pretending to be Mr G, but I dont feel 
that this should have precluded Nationwide from providing an update to Mrs G, even if that 
update could only have been general in nature.
And having considered all these points, as well the general framework by which this service 
awards compensation for distress and inconvenience (further details of which can be found 
on the Financial Ombudsman Service website) Im satisfied that the £325 total compensation 
already paid by Nationwide is a fair and reasonable amount in respect to the totality of 
whats happened here.
Im aware Mrs and Mr G feel their childrens education was impacted by Nationwides error, 
given that they were home-schooling their children at that time because of restrictions put in 
place because of Covid-19 and that Mrs and Mr G didnt have access to their accounts so as 
to purchase the educational equipment they needed to educate their children at home. 
But Mrs and Mr G have confirmed there was a requirement to home-school their children 
from the beginning of 2021 until Easter that year, and so its unclear why the equipment Mrs 
and Mr G wished to purchase hadnt already been bought by them, given that their accounts 
werent restricted until mid-February. And if the equipment hadnt been purchased in 
February 2021, I feel the £325 already paid to Mrs and Mr G already provides fair 
compensation for their being unable to purchase that equipment until the following month. 
Ultimately, given the above, I dont feel that Nationwide should be fairly held solely 
accountable for Mrs and Mr G not possessing the educational equipment they refer to in 
February 2021 such that any higher amount of compensation beyond the £325 already paid 
to them by Nationwide is merited in this instance.
Finally, Mrs and Mr G have stated that the £1,000 that Nationwide allowed them to have 
access to in early-March wasnt enough for their needs at that time. However, given that the 
restrictions on Mrs and Mr Gs accounts were lifted in a relatively short time after they were 
given access to this £1,000, I feel it was a reasonable amount for Nationwide to have 
allowed Mrs and Mr G to have received for essential expenditure while the restrictions were 
still in place. And while Mrs and Mr G have explained that they wanted to repay family at that 
time, I dont feel that its reasonable to have expected Nationwide to have allowed Mrs and Mr G to have withdrawn a higher amount from their account while it was still restricted, even 
if in hindsight that restriction shouldnt have been in place.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs and Mr G were wanting, but it follows from the above 
that Im satisfied that the response that Nationwide have already issued to their complaint 
does provide a fair and reasonable resolution for what happened, and as such I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I trust that Mrs 
and Mr G will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman