DRN-3267553
The complaint
Mr R complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) declined his application for a personal 
bank account. He feels they have discriminated against him. 
What happened
Mr R says he wanted to open a business account with Starling but he was told he needed to 
open a personal account first as this formed part of Starlings policy. Mr R says he used 
Starlings mobile app to apply and entered his first name and surname. Mr R says after 
submitting his information, the app asked him to confirm his name matches that on his 
passport. Mr R says his passport includes his middle name but there was no provision in the 
app to include his middle name, so he edited his first name to include his middle name. Mr R 
says this led to Starling declining his application and asking him to check his credit report.  
Mr R says he checked his credit report but theres no adverse information, so he complained 
to Starling. 
Starling responded and said, when they review applications, credit, fraud and identity checks 
are carried out before a decision is made to approve or decline an application. They said,  
Mr Rs application was declined in line with Starlings processes but they dont elaborate on 
the reasons for declined accounts. They didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought Starling hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Rs application. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
I can see Mr R applied to Starling to open a personal account. Starling wrote to Mr R to 
inform him of their decision on his application. They said, as they are a regulated bank, they 
conduct identity, fraud prevention and credit checks to open a Starling account. Starling 
say, based on the information Mr R provided, they have done their checks and are 
unfortunately unable to open an account for him at this time. They acknowledge that Mr R 
will want to know the reason and they say its due to one or more matters arising from the 
identity, fraud prevention or credit checks they have conducted. 
Starling say, if Mr R is unaware of any information held by credit reference agencies or fraud 
prevention agencies that might impact Mr Rs ability to open a bank account, they suggest 
he seek a copy of his credit report.   
I can see Mr R responded and provided details of his credit score and also confirmed he had 
never missed a payment and his credit report showed no adverse information. Mr R 
therefore believes his application has been declined on the basis of discrimination. Im sorry 
to hear Mr R feels hes been subject to discrimination and I do acknowledge why hes 
frustrated at not receiving specific reasons supporting Starlings decision to decline his 
application. But, from the information Ive seen, I cant say Starling have acted unfairly. 
While I do understand why a customer will want to know the exact reasons for their 
application being declined, in the case of bank accounts, the reasons will generally be 
commercially sensitive  and thats the case here. Starling have provided Mr R with a broad 
explanation of the factors they take into account when considering an application and these 
are in line with general industry standards. And, Starling have explained their reason is due 
to one or more matters arising from the checks they carried out. So, I cant say Starling have 
been unfair in carrying out these checks or acted unreasonably as they have provided a 
broad explanation supporting their reason. 
I note Mr R feels Starling have discriminated against him as there didnt appear to be an 
issue until he entered his middle name into the application. Starling have provided 
information which supports their reasoning and, while our service cant share this with Mr R 
because its commercially sensitive, I do wish to reassure Mr R theres no evidence of the 
grounds being linked to any factors associated with discrimination. The evidence shows     
Mr Rs application was considered in line with Starlings process. And, I havent seen any 
information which suggests Mr R was treated differently to other customers or that his 
application wasnt considered in line with the same criteria as any other customer wishing to 
open a bank account.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman