DRN-2886008
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE wont pay for all 
the damage to his car following a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay the 
full cost of his repairs quotation. 
What happened
Mr A said a neighbour had damaged his car whilst parking. Mr A sent photographs of the 
damage to Aioi Nissay. Aioi Nissay said he could have a cash payment to have the repairs 
done at his own garage. Mr A sent photographs of the damage to his garage to obtain an 
estimate. But Aioi Nissay said that not all the claimed for damage was due to the incident as 
Mr A had described it. So it wouldnt pay for the full cost of repairs, just those it thought had 
been caused by the neighbour in the incident.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aioi 
Nissays engineer had established that damage to the cars rear bumper was unrelated to 
the incident and this was confirmed by Mr As garage. So she thought it had reasonably 
decided just to pay for the repairs to the side of the car and the corner of the front bumper.  
Mr A replied that he wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he was unhappy that he sent the same photographs of the damage to his car to 
Aioi Nissay and the garage, but it wouldnt pay for the full cost of the repairs. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see from Aioi Nissays response to Mr A and its file that its chief engineer said that the 
rear bumper of Mr As car was cracked. But Mr A had said that the incident had damaged 
the drivers side of his car. The engineer then called the garage which confirmed that this 
damage was unrelated to the incident. The engineer also said that the front bumper had 
damage and previous poor repairs that were unrelated to the incident. 
I think Aioi Nissay needs to pay only for the damage related to the claim. I think it has 
investigated Mr As claim and considered the evidence from its engineer and the garage. I 
cant see that there is any further evidence it should have considered. I think Aioi Nissay 
then reasonably decided to pay Mr A only for the damage caused by the incident. So I cant 
say it has done anything wrong or needs to pay for further repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman