DRN-3710811
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited didnt include a final with-profit bonus 
when she claimed on the non-reviewable whole of life policy she owned.
What happened
Mrs M took out a with-profits non-reviewable whole of life policy with a business that has 
now been acquired by Phoenix. The policy was owned by Mrs M and the life assured was 
Mrs Ms late husband who passed in 2020. When Mrs M made a claim on the policy Phoenix 
paid her £5,740.99, which was made up of the guaranteed sum assured plus reversionary 
bonuses, but no final bonus was added.
Mrs M complained to Phoenix that shed only received what shed paid into the policy and 
that no final bonus had been added. Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint and explained that 
reversionary bonuses of £3,039.80 had been added to the guaranteed sum assured. 
Phoenix explained that it wasnt paying a final bonus on the policy at the time of the claim. 
Phoenix offered to pay Mrs M £50 as one of its agents had told her she would receive a 
response to her complaint within five working days, but it didnt respond within this time.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the final response from Phoenix. Mrs M brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our Investigators looked into things. The 
Investigator thought that Phoenix hadnt done anything significantly wrong as a final bonus 
on these types of policies isnt guaranteed. The Investigator explained that reversionary 
bonus had been added to the sum assured and that the amount paid out to Mrs M exceeded 
the amount shed paid into the policy. Mrs M didnt agree with the Investigator and has asked 
that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs M will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
The policy was sold in 1983 and although there is little point of sale documentation, I have to 
consider whether the policy was mis-sold at the time or whether the information provided 
was mis-leading. In this regard it seems to me that Mrs M has a good understanding of what 
the policy was for and how it worked. It seems she understood the policy would pay out 
when her late husband died, that the cover was for the whole of his life and that it 
participated in the with-profits fund of the business. The monthly premium was £8.51, and 
Mrs M continued to pay the premiums until she made a claim. This suggests to me that the 
premium was affordable. Im therefore satisfied that the adviser demonstrated a duty of care 
to ensure the policy recommended was appropriate for Mrs Ms needs and that it wasnt mis-
sold.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that she understood the policy would have a final bonus 
applied when a claim was made. Ive seen a copy of the policy schedule and it confirms the 
policy would benefit from reversionary bonuses that when added couldnt be taken away. Im 
satisfied that when Mrs M made the claim Phoenix paid out these bonuses on top of the 
basic sum assured of £2,700.
The policy also entitled Mrs M to participate in the profits of the business, which is typical of 
these types of policies. A final or terminal bonus may also be payable at the time of a claim 
or if the policy is surrendered. A final or terminal bonus is not guaranteed and is intended to 
ensure that the final policy value reflects the total investment performance achieved over the 
duration of the contract. Ive seen that Phoenix provided regular statements to Mrs M 
explaining what the value of the policy would be if a claim was made and explaining that a 
final or terminal bonus wasnt guaranteed to be paid. In annual statements sent from 2015 
until the date of claim, Phoenix told Mrs M it was now unlikely it would be able to pay any 
final bonus in the future. 
Mrs M received reversionary bonuses and when added to the sum assured this meant the 
policy paid out more than she paid in. This is what I would expect to see from a policy of this 
type. Ive no doubt Mrs will have been disappointed there was no final bonus, but Im 
satisfied Phoenix didnt do anything wrong when it paid out the claim. It paid the reversionary 
bonus on the guaranteed sum assured and I consider Phoenix made it reasonably clear that 
the final bonus was not a guaranteed payment.
Ive noted that Phoenix offered to pay Mrs M £50 for the inconvenience caused when it told 
her she would receive a decision on her complaint with five days. As complaint handling is 
not a regulated activity, Im not able to comment on this within my decision. If Mrs M hasnt 
received the £50, she may wish to contact Phoenix to arrange payment.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint Mrs made against Phoenix Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman