DRN-3583669
The complaint
Mr M complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him when it provided a loan 
that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows:
Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repayment*Total payable
November 2019 36 £1,500 £71.92 £2,589.12
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve 
provided this loan. So our investigator upheld the complaint and set out the steps that he felt 
1Plus1 needed to take to put things right.
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that Mr Ms earned income plus 
his self-employed earnings (which it didnt think our investigator had allowed for) provided 
Mr M with ample money to cover all his essential spending and that the loan monthly 
repayments were affordable for him.
As the complaint wasnt resolved, it came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive provisionally decided this isnt a complaint I can fairly uphold based on the information 
I've seen so far. Ill explain why I say this. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will depend on a number of 
factors  a lender should for instance consider, amongst other things, the borrowers 
particular circumstances (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are 
seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a borrower has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems or impact 
adversely on a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable 
way. 
1Plus1 has provided evidence to show that, before lending to Mr M, it asked him for details 
of his income and expenditure and carried out its own banking and credit checks to 
understand Mr Ms financial situation and his credit history. It took steps to verify Mr Ms 
income and discussed Mr Ms financial situation with him during a phone call. 1Plus1 called 
him back to double check information it saw on its credit checks relating to late payment 
issues on a couple of other loans. It calculated what it thought was Mr Ms disposable 
income to see if the loan repayments were affordable.Based on the amount that Mr M borrowed, the repayment amount and the loan term, I think 
the checks 1Plus1 did were reasonable and proportionate in Mr Ms particular 
circumstances. Those checks suggested to 1Plus1 that the loan was affordable and Mr M 
shouldve been able to sustain the repayments over the term. On balance, I think that was a 
reasonable conclusion for 1Plus1 to have reached.
I appreciate Mr M has said he was already in financial difficulty at the time this loan was 
provided to him and that it was unaffordable. But I dont think this is something 1Plus1 knew 
or ought to have known about at the time. I say this because: 
I think its fair to say that the information 1Plus1 saw suggested Mr M could rely on 
being able to boost his typical monthly earned income which seemed to be around 
£1,472. It could see that a couple of months earlier hed more than doubled his 
earned income with extra money from his self-employed work. Im not assuming 
Mr M would always be able to rely on getting as much work as this  but 1Plus1 
looked at bank statement information covering three months or so and saw that, as a 
minimum, he was able to pay between £400 and £500 extra into his account each 
month  and a lot more than this in September 2019. Overall, his debt servicing costs 
didnt appear to be an unreasonably high proportion of his income, so I dont think 
I can fairly say that 1Plus1 should have realised that Mr M would find himself short of 
enough money to make the loan monthly repayments.   
although 1Plus1s credit checks showed that Mr M had recently made late payments 
on two loans, I've carefully listened to the call recordings when he explained this was 
due to a mismatch between the date he was paid at work and when the direct debits 
for his loans were due. Mr M said the payments were made a couple of days after the 
due dates and there werent any ongoing late payment issues  
he told 1Plus1 that he was in an arrangement to pay with one of the lenders which 
I think would have reassured 1Plus1 that he had demonstrated a responsible attitude 
towards bringing the account back up to date
Mr M said old defaults were due to being out of work and they were all now paid
it looks like Mr M was also paying a private loan which wasnt shown on the credit 
checks 1Plus1 obtained but was apparent from looking at bank statements  and this 
too showed a recent payment problem with a returned direct debit. But it isnt unusual 
for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing other 
borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if the loan 
otherwise looked affordable. It didnt look like Mr M was particularly reliant on an 
overdraft, he wasnt shown as being in bankruptcy or having entered into any formal 
arrangement with creditors. There was no record of any county court judgement  1Plus1 saw some recreational gambling on his bank statements but there was 
nothing to suggest that Mr Ms spending on gambling was excessive or out of control 
there were some unpaid items on his bank statements and Mr M was paying bank 
charges for this. But there was also significant non-essential spending apparent and 
it looked like Mr M had enough flexibility to manage his money differently if he had 
chosen to do so. So I think 1Plus1 was reasonably entitled to take the view that his 
spending reflected his priorities and it didnt look like Mr M was financially over-
stretched or that his credit commitments werent manageable.
It was fair for 1Plus1 to decide Mr Ms lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. Looked at overall, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for 1Plus1 to provide the loan as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to 
suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to repay it in a sustainable way. The loan appeared to be 
affordable looking at Mr Ms income capacity and committed expenditure. And I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required 1Plus1 to probe any more deeply into Mr Ms 
finances or ask Mr M to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to 
verify what he had told 1Plus1 (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided or the other information 1Plus1 obtained. But in order to uphold this 
complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think 
that 1Plus1 did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr M. 
Our investigator didnt think that 1Plus1 had acted towards Mr M in any other way that wasnt 
fair and reasonable. Mr M hasnt commented on that but Ive thought about this also as part 
of my independent review of his complaint. I havent seen anything which makes me think 
1Plus1 acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in any other way. 
So for these reasons, Im not planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
I appreciate that my provisional decision will be disappointing for Mr M but I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps explain how I've come to my conclusions. If Mr M is still 
struggling with debt and would like to talk to someone about his situation or get help to 
manage his finances theres more information about how to get free advice and assistance 
on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
1Plus1 accepted what I've said in my provisional decision. 
I have heard nothing further from Mr M and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman