DRN-1465055
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) handled her claim for 
cancer treatment.
What happened
Mrs M has a private medical insurance policy with AXA and has comprehensive cancer 
cover. 
In March 2017, Mrs M was diagnosed with cancer and her consultant prescribed a 
combination of drugs rather than chemotherapy due to less side effects. She was prescribed 
Fulvestrant, which prevents oestrogen from reaching cancer cells and Denosumab which is 
a bone strengthening drug used to treat some bone cancers.
Mrs M had injections of the drugs every month but in May 2019, AXA told Mrs M that it had 
mistakenly covered the treatment by drugs. Its policy says the drugs would only be covered 
if they were taken alongside chemotherapy or biological therapy to kill cancer cells. AXA 
accepted that it had given Mrs M false expectation and to recognise this, it offered to pay 
£500 compensation and continue paying for her treatment until August 2019. This was to 
allow Mrs M time to switch her treatment to the NHS instead. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with AXAs offer as the NHS dont fund the treatment in every case 
unless taken through the NHS before 2018. To be able to continue with the treatment, Mrs M 
would need to make an application to the NHS and may need to accept a slightly different 
drug. Mrs M also questions that the drugs are not biological therapies as her consultant has 
said that both of the drugs she has been taking are biological therapies.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think AXA had treated Mrs M fairly as 
the switch to the NHS may take longer than suggested and also that Mrs M had an 
expectation that the treatment would be covered until the end of the current policy term. So 
she recommended that AXA fund the treatment until March 2020 which AXA agreed to.
Mrs M didnt agree that funding should be limited in this way and believes the treatment 
should be funded by AXA indefinitely. Mrs M is concerned that if she switches to the NHS, 
she will not be able to continue with the medication she is on now. She feels she shouldnt 
need to go to the NHS. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
AXAs policy confirms what sort of cancer treatment is covered:
Drug treatment to kill cancer cells  including
Biological therapies such as Herceptin or Avastin
Chemotherapy.
 
The policy confirms other drugs may also be covered as long as you have them at the same 
time as you are having chemotherapy or biological therapy to kill cancer cells covered by 
your policy.
With the drugs Mrs M was taking, she would need to have them at the same time as 
chemotherapy or a biological therapy to kill cancer cells in order to be covered under the 
policy terms. In this case, AXA mistakenly provided cover and so I dont think theyve 
handled the claim properly. As a result of notifying Mrs M so late about the fact that her 
treatment wasnt covered, the NHS treatment criteria has changed which means she now 
has to make an application to get the same treatment on the NHS. This could take some 
time and has clearly caused Mrs M stress, frustration and inconvenience for which a 
compensation payment is due. 
AXA offered to pay Mrs M £500 compensation which I think is fair taking into consideration 
that they should also fund her treatment until March 2020. The compensation is to recognise 
the impact AXAs mistake has had on Mrs M and the payment of the treatment should give 
Mrs M enough time to make any necessary application and get alternative funding for her 
treatment.
I appreciate that Mrs M says the treatment should be covered under the terms of the policy 
but having considered this carefully, the policy wording confirms that the biological therapy 
should kill cancer cells. The treatment Mrs M was having doesnt kill cancer cells and so it 
doesnt meet the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld and AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited should:
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation
Continue to fund Mrs Ms treatment until March 2020
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman