DRN-3847591
The complaint
Mr X, as the executor of the estate of Mr M, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
wont refund a transfer made from the late Mr Ms account.
What happened
Mr X says that since 2016 the late Mr M suffered from Parkinsons and dementia and that his 
wife managed their banking. He says the late Mrs M had told their local Lloyds branch about 
the late Mr Ms health issues. Then, in January 2019, sadly Mr Ms wife passed away and 
the late Mr M took over managing their Lloyds account. 
In August 2019, the late Mr M attended a Lloyds branch with a family member - who Ill refer 
to as L. While in the branch the late Mr M made a transfer of £25,000 from his account to Ls 
account.
Later in August 2019, after the transfer was made, Mr X was appointed as sole attorney for 
the late Mr M under a Power of Attorney (POA). And, during a review of the late Mr Ms bank 
statements, Mr X saw this withdrawal and had concerns that L had taken advantage of the 
late Mr M in order to access funds in his account.
In September 2019, Mr X raised his concerns with Lloyds and asked them to refund the 
money to the late Mr Ms account. However, earlier in September Lloyds had received 
notification from a solicitors firm that the POA had been revoked. Without which, Mr X 
wasnt an authorised party on the late Mr Ms account and couldnt raise a complaint on his 
behalf.
In January 2020, the late Mr M suffered a stroke and was admitted to hospital. Then in 
February 2020, he was discharged from the hospital into full time care. Sadly, in November 
2021, the late Mr M passed away.
In February 2022, Mr X was appointed as the executor of the late Mr Ms estate and raised 
the complaint with Lloyds again  as an authorised party.
Lloyds considered Mr Xs complaint but declined to refund the transfer, saying they had no 
reason to decline the payment when the late Mr M requested it. They explained that they 
may contact the police if they believe a customer is being coerced or forced into making a 
payment, however there was no evidence of that when the late Mr M made the transfer.
Mr X was unhappy with Lloyds response and asked us to look into the matter.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator said there 
wasnt any evidence that Lloyds were made aware of any medical conditions the late Mr M 
mayve had or that he mayve been vulnerable at the time of making the transfer. So, there 
was no reason for them not to proceed with the transfer.
Mr X disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
Lloyds is withholding information that was given to them at branch level.
Lloyds were made aware of the late Mr Ms condition in 2016 by the late Mrs M.
Messages sent by L to Mr X, say that the late Mr M didnt have capacity  and this 
was her observation as a healthcare professional.
L took control of a vulnerable Mr M.
Prior to this transfer, the late Mr M had never made a transfer from this account.
Lloyds didnt follow their own procedures where there is financial abuse of vulnerable 
or incapacitated customers  they shouldve called the police.
The late Mr Ms physical appearance shouldve raised concerns for the branch staff. 
L told the branch staff that she was the late Mr Ms carer, which shouldve highlighted 
a potential issue.
Lloyds failed to protect an elderly, frail and vulnerable customer.
As the case couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. And, where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted reasonably in following the late Mr Ms 
payment instructions, or whether I think they shouldve intervened and not made the transfer.
The contact notes that Lloyds have relating to the transfer for £25,000, record the amount of 
the transfer and note it was approved by a manager. Lloyds say a High Value Checklist 
(HVC) wouldve been completed as part of the payment process, however they dont have a 
copy of it. They have provided a blank HVC to show the type of questions the late Mr M 
wouldve been asked by branch staff. This suggests they wouldve asked about the purpose 
of the transaction, reviewed the late Mr Ms account to look for any unusual activity and read 
out a fraud statement to the late Mr M. Based on the size of the payment the late Mr M was 
making, these are the type of questions I wouldve expected Lloyds to have asked in order to 
identify any potential fraud warning signs. 
Lloyds have other contact notes from 1 August 2019. These detail that the late Mr M had 
concerns about certain parties having access to his account and his money  although he 
doesnt refer to L as being someone he is concerned about. They say he instructed Lloyds to 
contact L if there were any issues with his account and he provided Ls contact phone 
number. I can also see that in the same month, the late Mr M changed his contact details to 
those of L.There is nothing in Lloyds contact notes that suggest they had concerns when the late Mr M 
requested the transfer with regards to his capacity to make the request, or that they had any 
concerns that he may be under duress to make the transfer. In cases where they had these 
types of concerns, I would expect Lloyds to invoke the banking protocol which may involve 
them calling the police. But I havent seen anything that suggests they shouldve in this case.
Mr X has referred to Lloyds being on notice about the late Mr Ms vulnerabilities and his 
health issues since 2016, however Ive reviewed contact notes for the late Mr M back to 
2008 and cant see anything that supports Lloyds being told the late Mr M was vulnerable or 
unable to manage his finances. Mr X has also suggested that a local branch knew the late 
Mrs M and mayve had local records about discussions with her. However, this branch 
closed prior to the late Mr M making this transfer in August 2019 and isnt the branch that he 
attended to make the transaction. Also, Lloyds have told us that they dont keep branch 
records, and that all contact would be logged on their main system.
Ive very carefully considered everything that Mr X has told me, but Im not satisfied that I 
can safely conclude that Lloyds acted unreasonably by following the late Mr Ms transfer 
instructions. Im not satisfied that Lloyds were made aware or had any concerns that the late 
Mr M was vulnerable or unable to manage his finances, and I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Lloyds to infer that he lacked capacity because he introduced L as his carer. 
I havent seen anything that suggests that Lloyds shouldve been concerned, so I cant fairly 
say they shouldve invoked the banking protocol and called the police. Based on the 
information I have seen, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds asked the late Mr M some 
questions about his transfer request and that a manager approved the transaction based on 
being satisfied with the information or responses the late Mr M gave.
I realise that Mr X is going to be extremely disappointed, but Im not satisfied that I can 
safely say that Lloyds acted unreasonably or fairly ask them to refund the estate of Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman