DRN-4134382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how they have been treated by Landmark Mortgage Limited 
in relation to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a mortgage with Landmark, which they say was initially taken out with 
Northern Rock in 2001. Further borrowing was taken in November 2004, on a repayment 
basis. Mr and Mrs B then took further borrowing in August 2005, also on a repayment basis. 
A new product was taken in August 2006, running until September 2008. From this point, the 
mortgage would revert to the Standard Variable Rate (SVR), with a minimum 0.25% loyalty 
discount after seven years of the loan provided that payments were kept up to date. The 
mortgage was also later transferred to an interest only basis.
As Landmark was the business responsible for the loan when it was redeemed, Ill refer to 
Landmark only when referring to the actions of either Landmark or Northern Rock.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was redeemed in May 2016, and they contacted Landmark in 
November 2019, following receipt of a report carried out by a third party which said that 
theyd been overcharged. A third party had previously contacted Landmark about this in 
September 2018, although Landmark didnt provide a final response to that complaint.
Mr and Mrs B said that previous issues with the calculation of the mortgage interest when it 
was redeemed made them question whether there had been any other errors in the 
calculation of the payments. They said that the findings in the report were based on findings 
from FCA rulings in relation to similar lenders, which suggested there was merit to the report.
Mr and Mrs B said this error has caused them a significant amount of distress, in addition to 
the financial loss the report referred to of approximately £27,500. Mr and Mrs B said this is 
because they were in financial difficulties for a number of years and struggled to maintain the 
payments, unaware of the overcharging the report referred to. They were concerned about 
what had happened when the account was in arrears. They were also unhappy that 
Landmark hadnt offered them a new rate after their fixed rate expired in 2008.
Landmark has said it doesnt agree that the report suggests it has acted unfairly. It said it 
had been proactive in ensuring accounts were correctly managed and has referred to letters 
it sent in 2017 and 2019 about reviews carried out around how Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
payments were calculated and fees applied to the account. Landmark said that it took steps 
to put things right and refunded these amounts.
Landmark said that outside of these events, it believes there have been no errors in relation 
to calculations and the application of interest and fees. It has said that the statements 
provided to Mr and Mrs B made the payments received and interest applied clear.
After referring their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, an investigator issued 
an assessment setting out the things they thought we could consider and those we could 
not, given the time limits that exist for bringing a complaint. In summary, they said the 
following:
- They were satisfied the original complaint had been made on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf 
in September 2018. This was because there had been an expression of 
dissatisfaction by Mr and Mrs B and Landmark had acknowledged this at that time. 
- We could only consider fees, charged and the administration of the account from six 
years before the complaint was made  September 2012. This was because 
Mr and Mrs B ought reasonably to have been aware before then of the concerns they 
were now raising, about the application of fees and charges and how they were being 
treated by Landmark in relation to the financial difficulties they were experiencing.
- We could also only consider Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about not being offered a new 
rate by Landmark from September 2012, because they would reasonably have been 
aware of cause for complaint from when the fixed rate ended. Landmarks contact 
notes suggested that Mr and Mrs B had discussed switching to a new lender, 
because they found the Landmark SVR uncompetitive.
- We could consider Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the interest charged on their 
mortgage over the whole term. This was because from what Mr and Mrs B had said, 
their concerns about the calculation of mortgage interest had emanated from issues 
theyd experienced with how interest was calculated when the mortgage was 
redeemed. This was within 3 years of when the complaint was first raised. They also 
wouldnt have been aware of the points raised without reviewing the report by the 
third party. 
- We could consider Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the administration of and the fees 
and charges associated with the account when it was in arrears, but only from July 
2015. This was because Mr and Mrs B had raised a complaint about this in July 2015 
and hadnt subsequently referred it to this Service within 6 months. 
Both Mr and Mrs B and Landmark accepted the investigators conclusions about what we 
could and couldnt look at. 
The investigator then issued an assessment of the issues theyd said they could consider. In 
summary, they said :
- In terms of how Landmark had treated Mr and Mrs B when they were experiencing 
financial difficulties, they didnt think it had acted unfairly. They thought it was 
reasonable for Landmark to try to contact Mr and Mrs B in the way they did, because 
payments werent being maintained and they were trying to engage about the arrears 
to get things back on track. They also thought the steps Landmark had taken at 
different times, including appointing a field agent and requiring income and 
expenditure information, hadnt been unreasonable either.  
- The only fee/charge on the account during the time period they could consider was 
the mortgage redemption fee of £250. This had been set out in the relevant mortgage 
offer and they didnt think it was unfair for the fee to be applied.
- In the period they could look at, they were satisfied the arrears balance varied taking 
into account any payments or overpayment made during this time. - They couldnt audit the account, but they hadnt seen anything to suggest that 
Landmark had acted unfairly when calculating the monthly payments, taking into 
account the interest rate and balance at relevant times.
- They couldnt see that Mr and Mrs B had requested a new interest rate from 
Landmark, in the period they could look at. Landmark wasnt offering new rates 
anyway and they didnt think Landmark had needed to do more in this regard.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the outcome. In summary, they said
- There were unanswered questions about how interest had been calculated on the 
account. The mortgage had been on a repayment basis and yet the balance didnt 
reduce over a significant period of time. 
- Landmarks staff had made them feel like they had been irresponsible and should 
feel ashamed. Landmark couldve trained its staff to be more compassionate and 
empathetic. Landmark also hadnt done enough to help them when they were 
experiencing difficulties. Other lenders offer a range of solutions such as payment 
holidays and refunding or waiving fees and charges. Landmark didnt offer any other 
solutions.
- They hadnt contacted Landmark about a new rate, because it had already told them 
(after it had gotten into financial difficulties) that it couldnt offer any products to 
transfer to. Landmark could have done more over time to provide alternative 
products. 
- Landmarks SVR didnt fall in line with the reductions in the BoEBR that occurred 
during the credit crunch. The interest charged was then continuously higher than 
other lenders, whilst Landmark was reporting large profits, which meant it was 
exploiting customer who were suffering.
- Other lenders have undertaken rectification programmes where they identified that 
customers has experienced poor outcomes. 
- They thought the Financial Ombudsman Service was a customer champion and force 
for good. 
Mr and Mrs B also said they didnt remember a field agent ever having visited their home 
and asked to see evidence this had happened. They said they wanted someone else to 
review their complaint. At this point, the investigator asked both parties if they had a copy of 
the 2001 mortgage offer. Both confirmed they didnt. A different investigator then issued 
another assessment of the complaint. In summary, they said:
- Having reviewed the previous investigators assessment, they too didnt think 
Landmark had acted unfairly. 
- The audit report didnt provide any specific reason why the interest on the account 
had been calculated incorrectly. It simply suggests possible reasons why the interest 
might be miscalculated. 
- The audit report appeared to have used an incorrect (lower than actual) interest rate, 
so it wasnt surprising that it was suggesting that too much interest had been 
charged.- Having considered the interest variation terms and the way in which Landmark relied 
on those terms to vary the SVR over time, they didnt think Landmark had managed 
the SVR unfairly or that Mr and Mrs B had been overcharged as a result.  
- The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a consumer champion, rather an impartial 
dispute resolution service.
- Much of what Mr and Mrs B had said should have happened over time, wouldve 
required regulatory intervention. Regarding Landmark not offering Mr and Mrs B any 
alternative rates/options, it had not been required to do this and had not acted 
unfairly in not doing so.
They also provided a copy of the contact note referring to the visit by the field agent. 
Mr and Mrs B confirmed they had nothing to add but that they still wanted the case to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this, but I hope my explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached 
the conclusion that I have. 
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
In summary, Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns about the following:
- The amount of interest theyve been charged on their mortgage (including that the 
SVR was high).
- The fees and charged applied to their mortgage.
- They way theyve been treated by Landmark when experiencing financial difficulties.
- What happened to the balance when the account was in arrears.
- Landmark not offering them alternatives to being on the SVR.
Ive considered each of these in turn.
The amount of interest charged on the mortgage
Mr and Mrs B have referred to an audit report which they say shows that they have been 
overcharged by a considerable amount on their mortgage. They say that although they dont 
necessarily think the amount mentioned in the audit report is correct, they do believe there is 
some truth in it and that problems they encountered when redeeming their mortgage, make 
them concerned there are issues with the amount of interest theyve been charged. Theyve also said that the mortgage was on a repayment basis and yet the balance didnt reduce 
over a considerable period of time. 
Landmark says that the mortgage account has been administered correctly and that 
Mr and Mrs B havent been overcharged interest.
As the investigator has pointed out, the audit report appears to have used an incorrect 
interest rate, which immediately calls into question the reports reliability. I find that the audit 
report lacks detail and the conclusion that interest has been overcharged is unsubstantiated. 
In relation to Mr and Mrs Bs point about the balance not reducing despite the mortgage 
being on a repayment basis, I can see that the mortgage was moved to interest only and that 
the contractual monthly payment wasnt always being paid, with the account history 
suggesting Mr and Mrs B made use of payment holidays. Having reviewed the annual 
statements, I cannot see anything to suggest to me that interest has been incorrectly 
calculated. It follows that I dont uphold this element of the complaint. 
Fees and charges
I agree that only fees and charges applied since September 2012 can be considered, for the 
reason given by the investigator. As the investigator has said, there was only one fee levied 
after that point  the mortgage redemption fee. Such a fee is standard in the industry and the 
amount of £250 does not seem to me to be excessive. The fee was set out in the relevant 
mortgage offer, so it was reasonable for Landmark to apply it. It follows that I dont uphold 
this element of the complaint. 
Financial difficulties
I agree that I can only consider the way Landmark responded to Mr and Mrs B being in 
financial difficulty, since September 2012. 
It is clear that Mr and Mrs B experienced financial difficulties throughout this period. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they are aware that other lenders have gone further to help people 
in financial difficulty and that Landmark didnt help them enough. There is no one size fits all 
approach required by lenders when dealing with borrowers experience financial difficulties. 
So the general reference Mr and Mrs B have made to steps taken by other lenders when 
dealing with borrowers experiencing financial difficulties isnt particularly relevant.
Ive reviewed the contact notes in conjunction with how the account was managed and I 
havent found that Landmark has acted unfairly. I can see there were times when Landmark 
was making frequent attempts to contact Mr and Mrs B about the arrears on their account, 
but they werent able to get through to speak to them. It was reasonable for Landmark to 
want to discuss with Mr and Mrs B how best the mortgage could get back on track.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs B have said that Landmarks staff werent empathetic enough 
when dealing with them and that the staff members they spoke to left them feeling ashamed 
and responsible for the situation they found themselves in. 
I asked Landmark to provide recordings of a number of the calls that took place in 2015, 
however Landmark has said it no longer has recordings of the calls in question. Given the 
passage of time, this is unsurprising. I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs B wouldve found the 
inherent situation upsetting. There is insufficient evidence for me to conclude that 
Landmarks staff acted inappropriately and caused Mr and Mrs B to feel the way they have 
described. I do not uphold this element of the complaint, either.
What happened to the balance when the account was in arrears
I can see that Mr and Mrs B complained about this in 2015, with Landmark issuing a final 
response letter in July 2015, giving then six months to refer their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. As Mr and Mrs B didnt do this, I can only consider this complaint point 
from July 2015 onwards.
Ive looked at what happened on the account after that point and cannot see that Landmark 
has made any errors. The arrears balance was part of the overall balance and the overall 
balance moved in accordance with the receipts and debits on the account. So I dont uphold 
this element of the complaint.  
Landmark not offering alternatives to the SVR
I agree that I can only consider the complaint about Landmark not offering alternatives to its 
SVR, since September 2012. Mr and Mrs B have said that Landmark could and should have 
done more to offer them some kind of alternative to remaining on its SVR. 
I dont find that Landmark did need to do any more. It was a closed book lender and not 
required to offer new rates to its borrowers. So I cannot say that it acted unfairly and I do not 
uphold this element of the complaint. 
The level of the SVR charged by Landmark
Mr and Mrs B have said that Landmarks SVR didnt reduce as the Bank of England dropped 
the base rate and that it was continuously higher than other banks and building societies. 
Mr and Mrs B also said that, during the last few years they were suffering financially, 
Landmark reported eye watering profits in its annual reports, which Mr and Mrs B conclude 
represented greedy unethical exploitation of its customers who were suffering.
When considering allegations of this nature, I would usually only be able to consider the 
interest charged in the six years leading up to the complaint. This is because a consumer 
would typically have been aware of the grounds for a complaint of this nature, some time in 
the past. However, in this case I take it that Landmark has consented to us considering the 
interest charged since inception of the mortgage.
Since Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage began, Landmarks SVR has generally risen and fallen 
shortly after a change in the Bank of England base rate (BoEBR), albeit not always by the 
same amount. Between January 2008 and April 2009, the SVR only reduced. There werent 
any increases made in this period. However, there was a significant increase in the 
difference between the SVR and base rate.  
In the period 2007 to 2009, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant 
change as a result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of 
businesses, including Landmark, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders 
interest rates charged across the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has 
been the subject of analysis by both the Bank of England and the FCA since.
Landmark has told us that during this period its commercial strategy was significantly 
impacted by the government assistance that NRAM received through a government loan, 
and the need to repay the loan as quickly as possible in accordance with the applicable rules 
on State Aid. The reasons for the commercial strategy that was implemented by Landmark at the time, 
and the considerations that were made before deciding how to vary the SVR, have been 
explained to our Service. This information has been accepted in confidence, which is 
allowed for under our rules. 
Landmark not only had to deal with the changes to cost of funding as the other lenders did, 
but it also had additional obligations in relation to the government loan NRAM received. 
Looking at the reasons given for the variations at the time, Im satisfied Landmark had 
regard to the impact any changes would have on its customers, and balanced that 
reasonably with its financial position and obligations at the time.
For the remainder of the term until the mortgage was redeemed, the SVR remained the 
same (although the interest rate applying to Mr and Mrs Bs account reduced by 0.25% in 
2012  presumably relating to the loyalty discount). Landmark has shown that the SVR was 
continually reviewed, with it having regard to the changes made by other lenders and its 
continuing obligations under the government loan. During that period, the interest on the 
government loan was directly set by reference to BoEBR, and that resulted in Landmarks 
costs becoming more in line with those movements.
Whilst the SVR was higher than those charged by some of the mainstream high street 
lenders at the time, the rate still remained broadly in line with those charged across the 
industry and was not an obvious outlier.
All of the variations to the SVR were consistent with the interest variation conditions 
applying to the account. And Im satisfied that that the terms were exercised fairly, given 
the circumstances outlined above. As such, I do not uphold this element of the complaint 
either. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Landmark 
Mortgages Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman