DRN-3351054
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their application to port 
their mortgage product to a new property. They said they had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) and other costs because of this and would like these refunded with 
additional compensation, in order to resolve this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Santander in November 2016. They borrowed
£86,800 on a repayment basis over a term of 19 years and 10 months.
Mr M unfortunately suffered some health issues in early 2016 which meant he was unable 
to work for a period of time which caused them both some financial difficulty. Mr and Mrs 
M said they used a debt charity service to help them out of this and this has all now been 
resolved.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M switched their mortgage onto a two-year fixed rate 
which meant that if they redeemed their mortgage within that two-year period, there 
would be an ERC that would be incurred.
Mr and Mrs M decided they wanted to move to a new house so they could be closer to 
work and school for their children, so in November 2019, they contacted Santander to 
apply to port their mortgage (transfer their current mortgage product to a new property). 
Their plan at the time was to move into their new property in February 2020. They said 
they wanted to port their mortgage to the new property, and they worked out that they 
would have been left with around £24,000 equity after all their costs were paid. They said 
they wanted to use this money to repay some outstanding debts they had with other 
creditors.
Santander agreed the application and sent Mr and Mrs M a mortgage offer dated 
20 December 2019 which was valid until 17 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs M said that around this time, and shortly after they received the mortgage 
offer, they had some unforeseen costs and had to buy a new car as Mrs M needed to 
have one for her work. So they took out a loan for £4,000 and expected to repay this when 
they received the surplus money from the house move.
On 6 January 2020, Mr and Mrs M were informed that the property they wanted to 
purchase was no longer available. So they extended their own property completion date 
to 21 February 2020 so that they could find another property  which they did. But they 
had to increase the amount they wanted to borrow and, in order to afford the monthly 
mortgage payments, extend the mortgage term. Mr and Mrs M informed Santander but 
this application was declined on 31 January 2020 and Mr and Mrs M said they were told 
about this on 4 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs M then found another property and they wanted to borrow the same amount 
as they currently owed  so on the same terms as their original mortgage. They submitted 
their application on 13 February 2020, and this was declined on 21 February 2020 due to 
Mr and Mrs Ms credit files and history. Santanders underwriters explained that this 
included information about returned direct debits, late mortgage payments and the new 
commitments that were not present when the original application was made in December 
2019. They also said that Mrs Ms employment status had changed.
Mr and Mrs M already had a set completion date for the sale of their property, and they 
sold their property on 21 February 2020. As a result of this, Mr and Mrs M said they didnt 
have anywhere else to go so they ended up renting. They also had to pay an ERC of 
£2,372.91 because their mortgage was redeemed.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Santander about how they were treated unfairly during this 
process and Santander sent out their final response on the matter on 15 May 2020. They 
said they would consider another application but only if Mr and Mrs M could provide some 
additional information which included information about Mrs Ms new employment as of 2 
March 2020. Santander also said they usually allowed three months after redemption for 
borrowers to find a new property and complete and if this was the case, they would 
reimburse the ERC. They said as a result of covid-19, they would extend this to five 
months. This meant that Mr and Mrs M had until 21 July 2020 to port their mortgage and 
complete on a new property.
Mr and Mrs M provided Santander with the information they had requested but 
their application was declined on 10 June 2020.
Santander offered Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation for any confusion that was caused 
when Mr and Mrs M applied for the second property because Mr and Mrs M believed this 
application was a continuation of the first one made in December 2019  and not a new 
one.
Mr and Mrs M said they ended up renting the third property they wanted to buy from the 
owners and paid £450 a month which started from April 2020. They said they went to a 
broker to arrange a mortgage with another lender and they completed on that mortgage 
on 30 October 2020. They said they had to pay various fees during this time and in 
order to resolve this complaint, they would like these refunded with additional 
compensation for the stress and hardship caused to them.
Santander didnt offer anything further other than the £250 compensation, so Mr and Mrs 
M brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator thought that Santander had acted unfairly in declining the third 
application that Mr and Mrs M made in February 2020. She thought that Santander 
should have agreed this application because Mr and Mrs M wanted to port their mortgage 
under the same terms and were not looking to borrow any more.
In order to put things right, she asked Santander to do the following:
Refund the ERC of £2,372.91 with 8% simple interest from the date the ERC 
was paid until the date of settlement
Pay the difference in Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly payment of £437.39 
and the £450 in rent they were paying on the third property from May 2020 
along with 8% simple interest
Pay the difference in the interest rate because if Mr and Mrs M had ported 
their mortgage, their current fixed rate would have expired in April 2021. The 
rate they were on was 1.89% and the rate with the new lender was 3.18%. So 
the difference should be paid from September 2020 until April 2021 along with 
8% simple interest
Pay the £250 compensation that was offered if it hadnt been paid already
Refund the broker fee of £595Refund the cost of conveyancing that Mr and Mrs M had to pay with the new 
lender of £360 because Santander would not have charged this had the 
application been approved
Our investigator thought that some of the costs that Mr and Mrs M incurred would have 
still paid because the redemption and purchase of the new property were not 
simultaneous, so she didnt think any other fees should be refunded.
Santander didnt agree with what our investigator had said. They made the 
following comments:
They didnt feel that they had unfairly declined the third application as there 
were material changes to the contract. They said the loan to value (LTV) 
increased so the risk associated with the loan had clearly changed and they 
were right in taking this into consideration
In order to gauge whether agreeing to the application was in the best interests 
of Mr and Mrs M, it was entirely reasonable to consider their financial position 
in order to assess their ability to sustain the mortgage payments. And in this 
case, there was evidence of financial difficulty in the past and since the 
previous mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs M had taken out an additional loan and 
missed other payments on other commitments which had impacted their credit 
file. Since the mortgage offer in December 2019, Mr and Mrs M had taken out 
new credit in the three months and their employment situation had changed
    Mr and Mrs M increased their borrowing on the new mortgage with another 
lender to £86,250 so they are not looking at like for like and would question 
whether they would have been in a position to purchase the property with a 
lower sum. So they didnt agree to pay the different in the interest rates
In summary Santander said, there were too many concerns around Mr and Mrs Ms 
finances, and they were being asked to increase their risk against a poor financial 
record.
Mr and Mrs M also didnt agree with the investigator. They said they were given wrong 
advice by Santander which resulted in a loss of time to move home which caused them 
the need to pay for temporary accommodation. They made the following comments:
The mortgage offer Santander had sent them in December 2019 was valid for 
six months. They sold their home and secured the original house purchase in 
November 2019, with the move set for early February 2020. This was based on 
similar financial borrowing to that which they already had in place. The fixed rate 
they were on was due to end in April 2021. The move would have left them with 
£24,000 equity which was earmarked to pay off the car loan and clear some 
other debts
The move was closer to their work and school and in a less rural location 
which would have been more economical for their family in terms of travel, 
fuel and utility costs
Each time they spoke to Santander, they were given a figure it would lend to them 
and they always found a property to purchase. They said Santander always gave 
them a lesser figure and this happened three times. They feel that had Santander 
given them correct advice in January 2020 that they could only port the amount they had, they would have had time to find a property and arrange a move much quicker
Their track record in January and February 2020 at finding, bidding on and 
winning three houses proves that they were moving fast, and it was Santander 
that let them down. The repercussions of this loss of time meant they ended 
up having to rent
They feel that Santander changed the goalposts, and this was embarrassing to 
them and detrimental to their health. They had to rent and for some of the time, 
their family had to be split up and live with separate family members  at the 
height of the pandemic. They feel they deserve compensation for the upset and 
stress they have encountered
The start time for repayment of their losses based on finalising their mortgage 
and it taking three months to complete is misjudged.
On multiple phone calls they had with Santander they were told a decision 
would take five working days. So they disagree that it would have taken longer 
than a week or two for Santander to have completed their porting application. 
So if things had gone right, they would not have incurred fees such as renting, 
cattery and storage fees
Their family was effectively homeless between February and September 2020. 
They were living month to month, not knowing if they were going to be ok and if 
they were able to stay in the house they were renting while they were waiting 
for a mortgage. They believe they are entitled to much more than £250 
compensation and have never received this payment.
As Santander and Mr and Mrs M both disagreed, they asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have provided very detailed information regarding their complaint and I 
understand they feel very strongly about it. I want to assure Mr and Mrs M that I have 
taken into account everything they have said, but if there is something that I havent 
mentioned, its not because it hasnt been considered  it has, and I have thought very 
carefully about the arguments they have made.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that their application to port their mortgage to a new 
property was declined after it was initially approved by Santander in December 2019. 
They feel they have been treated very unfairly and caused a great deal of stress and 
inconvenience.
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation and that I have to consider. 
These rules followed on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage Market 
Review (MMR). The MMR led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the 
way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules have brought about requirements 
for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage 
lenders to act more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers 
who wanted to make changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they 
passed the tests under the old rules, but not under the new rules. So the FCA 
introduced certain rules to address this.
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt have to 
carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no 
changes to the terms of the mortgage that affect affordability. Ive looked at each 
application that Mr and Mrs M have made.
First porting application  December 2019
Looking at the first application that Mr and Mrs M made in December 2019, I can see 
they were not making any material changes that would have affected affordability. 
Santander didnt carry out an affordability assessment.
Santander said they carried out a credit check when this application was made which 
showed adverse information on Mrs Ms credit file but because it was historical and 
over 12 months old, and the amount Mr and Mrs M wanted to borrow wasnt changing, 
they didnt have an issue with it. They approved the application and proceeded to send 
Mr and Mrs M a mortgage offer. This mortgage offer was valid until June 2020. I think 
that Santander dealt with this application fairly.
Second porting application  January 2020
Unfortunately, the property that Mr and Mrs M intended to purchase fell through, so they 
found another property with a higher purchase price, so they wanted to increase their 
borrowing from around £75,000 to £120,000. Mr and Mrs M also wanted to increase the 
term of their mortgage.
These changes were a material change to the contract so it would have been 
reasonable for Santander to have conducted an affordability assessment to ensure that 
the new mortgage was affordable to Mr and Mrs M. However, Santander said they 
declined the application due to the fact that there was adverse credit on Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit file. I think because there was a change to the mortgage both in terms of how 
much Mr and Mrs M wanted to borrow, and an increase in the mortgage term, it was 
reasonable for Santander to look at affordability. I therefore dont think that Santander 
were unfair in the decision they made and I do appreciate why Santander had concerns 
about this. They had to satisfy themselves that the risk they were taking on was 
acceptable to them, and based on those circumstances, they didnt feel it was. I cant 
say that Santander did anything wrong here. However, I do have a different opinion on 
the third application that Mr and Mrs M made in February 2020 which I will go on to 
explain now.
Third porting application  February 2020
As Mr and Mrs M were unable to proceed with the second property, they found 
another property they wanted to purchase, and they made an application to 
Santander in February 2020. They wanted to borrow the same amount as their 
original mortgage  so around
£75,000 and they were not looking to extend the term or make any other changes that 
would have been classed as material changes to the mortgage.
I have looked at Santanders underwriting notes and they declined this application 
on the basis of Mr and Mrs Ms adverse credit information and because they had 
concerns over their ability to sustain the mortgage payments.
Santander also had concerns about Mrs Ms employment which had changed, and 
because the LTV was increasing. They said this was material, so they had every right 
to carry out an affordability assessment which they were then not happy with.
The FCA rules for mortgage lending allow lenders to set aside affordability checks for 
existing borrowers who arent borrowing more money or making any other material 
changes to the mortgage contract  as this was the case here. They do not say a 
lender must set them aside, but they can use their discretion to do so. If a lender does 
carry out an affordability assessment, it would then be unfair to use that assessment as a reason to decline the application.
Mrs Ms employment status changed from employed to self-employed but from what I 
can see, it was only Mr Ms income that was being used in the application. Even so, 
Santander shouldnt have used this as one of the reasons to decline the application 
because it was linked to affordability.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M took out further borrowing since the first application as 
Mrs M needed a new car for her work. They did this because they thought they would 
pay this and other debts off from the surplus money they would have received from 
the sale of their house  which they thought was still going ahead at that time.
Santander were not happy with historical adverse credit information and returned 
direct debits. They said that Mr and Mrs M had taken out a new loan since the 
original offer in December 2019 and they had missed other commitments which 
impacted their credit file.
But most of these were historic which Santander were already aware of. There were 
late payments on two credit cards for Mr M but these were settled in 2017. And Mrs M 
also had late payments on a credit card, but these were settled in 2018. There were 
missed mortgage payments in 2019 and this was prior to the first application in 
December 2019  when Santander already approved the first porting application.
Mr and Mrs M had a valid reason for needing to take out a loan in order to purchase a 
car. In any event, the fact that Santander have said there was evidence of financial 
difficulty in the past and since the previous mortgage offer, this all falls under 
affordability. While I appreciate that things had changed for Mr and Mrs M since 
December 2019, they knew they had sold their property and were relying on the surplus 
funds to repay their debts. That purchase didnt go through. Their circumstances 
changed at that point and their priority was to find another property to purchase. The 
point here is that the terms of the mortgage were not changing so Santander should 
have allowed Mr and Mrs M to port their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M were not borrowing any further funds. They wanted to keep their 
mortgage on the same terms. The application was on a like for like basis with the 
mortgage amount, mortgage term and contractual monthly payment all remaining the 
same. I do think it was unfair for Santander to decline their porting application for the 
reasons they did.
The LTV increased from 50.66% to 62.49%. While the LTV has increased, I accept 
this meant an increased risk to Santander but this this was a minimal risk. Mr and Mrs 
M still had a considerable amount of equity left in their property so if there were any 
issues in the future, Santanders security would not have been at risk.
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs M were already on a fixed rate which wasnt expiring until 
April 2021. This meant that had Mr and Mrs M not wanted to move, they would have 
continued with this mortgage regardless. Santander would have allowed Mr and Mrs M 
to continue with the mortgage they already had, had Mr and Mrs M decided not to port. 
So Santander already had an obligation to continue with this mortgage.
Because Santander declined this application, Mr and Mrs M had to rent the property 
they wanted to buy and ended up paying the ERC of £2,372.91 when they 
redeemed their mortgage.
Although Santander gave Mr and Mrs M five months from redemption to complete on a 
new property, the final application after Santander reviewed it again, was declined in 
June 2020. So it was highly unlikely that Mr and Mrs M would have arranged another 
mortgage and completed in just a matter of weeks.
Had the application of been approved in February 2020, Mr and Mrs M would have kept 
their interest rate of 1.89% and not had to secure another mortgage with another lender, paying a higher interest rate of 3.18%. I think this has also had an impact on Mr and 
Mrs M.
I understand why Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with what has happened, and why they 
would like to be reimbursed for the fees they have had to pay. I think there are some 
fees that Santander should reimburse in order to put things right for Mr and Mrs M.
Putting things right
As Ive already explained, I think that Santander should have allowed Mr and Mrs M to 
port their existing mortgage to the new property they wanted to purchase  the third 
application made in February 2020. Because of this, they should put Mr and Mrs M 
back in the position they would have been in had that mortgage been approved.
They should therefore refund the ERC of £2,372.91 and the broker fee of £595. The 
ERC would never have been charged if the application was approved. And Mr and Mrs 
M wouldnt have had to pay an additional fee to a broker to try and find a mortgage 
urgently  in order to secure the mortgage on the property they were renting out. Mr and 
Mrs M also had to pay a valuation fee when taking out the new mortgage, but 
Santander said they wouldnt have charged this if the porting application was approved, 
so Santander should also refund this fee of £360.
Mr and Mrs M said they started to rent the property they wanted to buy (the third one) in 
April 2020 and they told us they paid £450 in rent per month. I think its likely that if 
Santander did approve the application, it would have taken at least three months for 
completion to go through. This isnt unusual and given the pandemic, I think this amount 
of time was reasonable based on what we know of the mortgage market. So, Santander 
should pay the difference in Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly payment of £437.39 
and the rent payment of £450 from May 2020 which is three months from when they 
made their application in February 2020, until October 2020 when they completed on 
their new property.
Had Santander allowed Mr and Mrs M to port their mortgage, the interest rate they 
would have been on would have been 1.89% which would have expired in April 2021. 
Mr and Mrs M secured a new interest rate on their new mortgage of 3.18%. Santander 
should pay the difference in the interest rate from October 2020, when Mr and Mrs M 
completed on their new property, until April 2021 which is when the fixed rate of 
interest they were on with Santander would have expired. But this should only be on 
the amount of Mr and Mrs Ms original mortgage with Santander.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M would also like their storage and cattery fees refunded, 
but these costs are costs that they would have had to pay regardless. Had Santander 
approved the mortgage in February 2020, it would still have taken some time for the 
mortgage to complete. Mr and Mrs M told us they had a completion date for the sale of 
their property set for the end of February 2020 so they would have still had to arrange 
for these services even if the application had been approved. I therefore dont agree 
that these should be refunded.
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt realise at the time, when the first property fell through, 
that the original mortgage offer wasnt still going to be valid until June 2020. Santander 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation for any confusion. Mr and Mrs M have 
told us that they have not received this payment. If Santander have not made this 
payment to Mr and Mrs M, they should ensure that this is made, if Mr and Mrs M agree 
to this
I appreciate that this caused some stress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs M and I 
know the efforts they went through to try and get things sorted out. They had to rent a 
property when they redeemed their mortgage and they have told us that they were not 
all able to live together for a while until they found somewhere bigger to rent. This caused them unnecessary upset at a time which was already quite difficult for them. I 
therefore think that Santander should pay an additional £250 for distress and 
inconvenience that was caused to Mr and Mrs M.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im intending to uphold this complaint and require 
Santander to:
Refund the ERC of £2,372.91 with 8% simple interest from the date the ERC 
was paid until the date of settlement
Pay the difference between Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly mortgage 
payment of £437.39 and the £450 in rent they were paying on the third property 
from May 2020 up until October 2020 along with 8% simple interest which 
should be calculated from May until October 2020
Pay the difference in the interest rate between 1.89% and 3.18%. from October 
2020 until April 2021 along with 8% simple interest from October 2020 until April 
2021
Pay the £250 compensation that was offered originally if it hadnt been paid already
Pay an additional £250 for distress and inconvenience caused
Refund the broker fee of £595 plus 8% interest on this amount
Refund the cost of conveyancing that Mr and Mrs M had to pay with the new 
lender of £360 plus 8% interest on this amount
If Santander UK Plc deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs M as 
above, it should provide Mr and Mrs M with a tax deduction certificate, so they can 
reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Developments
Mr and Mrs M responded to the provisional decision and said they both accepted it. They 
said they were still disappointed with the level of compensation but were grateful that it was 
raised a little. 
Mr and Mrs M said they dont see any real punishment given to Santander or any kind of 
deterrent to stop them repeating the unfair behaviour Mr and Mrs M experienced against 
other customers. They said they would write to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
separately. 
Santander responded to the provisional decision and said they didnt have anything further 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to pick up on the point that Mr and Mrs M made about the fact they didnt see any 
punishment given to Santander. Were not the industry regulator, the FCA is. So where we 
make awards for compensation, those are to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by the customer, and we also think about putting customers back in the position they would 
have been in, had any errors not occurred. These arent intended as a form of fine, punishment or deterrent for the business involved. I understand that Mr and Mrs M have said 
they will contact the FCA about this, and they are in their right to do so if they wish.
As Mr and Mrs M agreed with the provisional decision, and Santander had no further 
comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Santander to:
Refund the ERC of £2,372.91 with 8% simple interest from the date the ERC 
was paid until the date of settlement
Pay the difference between Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly mortgage 
payment of £437.39 and the £450 in rent they were paying on the third property 
from May 2020 up until October 2020 along with 8% simple interest which 
should be calculated from May until October 2020
Pay the difference in the interest rate between 1.89% and 3.18%. from October 
2020 until April 2021 along with 8% simple interest from October 2020 until April 
2021
Pay the £250 compensation that was offered originally if it hadnt been paid already
Pay an additional £250 for distress and inconvenience caused
Refund the broker fee of £595 plus 8% interest on this amount
Refund the cost of conveyancing that Mr and Mrs M had to pay with the new 
lender of £360 plus 8% interest on this amount
If Santander UK Plc deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs M as above, it 
should provide Mr and Mrs M with a tax deduction certificate, so they can reclaim the 
tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman