DRN-3861488
The complaint
Mrs T feels that Nationwide Building Society has treated her unfairly about transactions on 
her credit card to purchase training courses.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs T enrolled on two courses, both supplied by the same Provider, using 
her Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) credit card to pay for both courses in part 
(the rest of the payments were made by instalments). She paid around £3195 in total for the 
two courses.
Mrs T fully completed the first course in September 2020. But the booking of the second 
course was initially cancelled due to the Pandemic. There then followed attempts by the 
Provider to provide dates for the second course which were then either moved, not agreed, 
or cancelled due to the Pandemic. After a number of such efforts Mrs T asked for a full 
refund from the Provider in November 2021. The Provider refused saying it had provided 
one course and was able to provide the second course if only Mrs T would agree dates with 
it. So Mrs T took her complaint to NBS.
NBS raised chargebacks for the transactions on Mrs Ts credit card. £900 was recouped by 
this process. NBS also considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
considered this and went on to offer Mrs T a further £500 in relation to the courses and a 
further £100 for the customer service it provided her. But Mrs T feels that she should get all 
her money back. So she brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and concluded that NBSs offer was fair. But Mrs T 
doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that the facts of the matter between the parties are broadly agreed. 
Specifically that Mrs T paid for two courses, was supplied one and hasnt completed the 
other. Its also accepted that shes received the £900 as a result of the chargeback. However 
Mrs T has said shes looking for a full refund, but NBS feels its offer of £500 is fair in the 
circumstances in relation to the Provider and £100 for customer service is also fair.
I can see that NBS raised chargebacks for the two transactions Mrs T made to the Provider 
and these were successful in recouping these funds. Chargeback can only get back the 
amount of the transactions, it doesnt cover further losses. So Im satisfied NBS has treated 
Mrs T fairly in relation to Chargeback.
Mrs T used her NBS credit card to pay for the courses. This means that if certain criteria are 
met NBS can have certain responsibilities to Mrs T which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain 
circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs T to hold NBS liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence NBS 
can be held responsible for a like claim against the Provider. But NBS is only responsible 
here for breaches of contract or misrepresentation by the Provider. 
I can see from Mrs Ts own explanation of what happened that between her attending the 
first course in September 2020 and her asking for a full refund in November 2021 that the 
Provider offered her a number of dates in order to do the second course. Some of these 
were then moved or cancelled due to the Pandemic and some of them werent accepted by 
Mrs T. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 provides that services must be provided within a 
reasonable time. Considering the ebb and flow of the Pandemic during this period and the 
clear attempts by the Provider to provide the course, Im satisfied it would be unfair to find 
that the Provider couldnt have provided the second course within a reasonable time by the 
point that Mrs T asked for a full refund. And the Providers terms and conditions allow for it to 
move the dates of the courses for events outside of its control. I think classing the Pandemic 
as outside this Providers control to be fair, contrary to Mrs Ts view on the matter.
Mrs T has argued that she should get everything back. But clearly she attended and had the 
benefit of the first course. Ive seen what the two courses were and although related skills 
being taught, Im not persuaded that both courses had to be completed to receive any 
benefit. And Ive seen the Provider offered dates repeatedly to Mrs T. So I think it fair that 
NBS consider that Mrs T had full benefit of the first course and thus shouldnt receive any 
refund in relation to it.
NBS has also said that Mrs T shouldnt receive the £300 non-refundable deposit back. Ive 
looked at the terms and in any event that deposit isnt refundable. So I see no reason for Mrs 
T to get that amount from NBS.
NBS has offered £500 in full and final settlement. Ive not seen that it has accepted that 
there is a breach or misrepresentation here. This could have been a commercial decision by 
NBS but as I say its not clear and doesnt make a difference here. Bearing in mind that the 
Provider was still offering the service when Mrs T asked for a refund Im not persuaded there 
is a breach or misrepresentation here as I consider it was able to provide the course within a 
reasonable time considering the circumstances. Accordingly I think its offer of £500 is fair.
In consideration of the customer service NBS provided, I think £100 that it offered is fair also. 
And I think it would be decidedly unfair if NBS tried to go back on these offers considering its 
offer would have had an impact on Mrs Ts decision making in the overall dispute.
I now turn to some of Mrs Ts arguments. Mrs T says that a reasonable test should be 
applied here. NBS is only potentially liable here due to the legislation Ive described. Its only 
role was to provide the credit for Mrs T to spend on the courses. And this legislation makes 
clear that its only breach of contract or misrepresentation that it can be held liable for. So I 
dont see why NBS should offer on a reasonable basis when thats not the legal position 
and also when Im not persuaded there was a breach here in any event.
Mrs T says The fact the supplier had changed the dates numerous times
over a period of over a year would amount to a breach of any reasonable contract. I dont 
agree. The Provider was heavily constrained by the Pandemic and legislation banning the 
provision of many services during the period in question. Im not persuaded that there is a 
breach here either of the terms agreed or those implied under the Consumer Rights Act. 
These are the terms Mrs T agreed to and I note she could have completed the course but 
has chosen not to. It would also seem that there were a number of dates offered latterly 
which Mrs T refused. So I could understand if the Provider felt that it wasnt the party in 
breach of the agreed contract.Mrs T says that as there was one finance agreement there was in essence only one 
agreement to provide two courses. But, bearing in mind that Im not persuaded there is any 
breach or misrepresentation here, then any offer by NBS to Mrs T about this matter is fair to 
my mind. And I think the costings and descriptions and dates and other circumstances make 
very clear these were two separate courses which offered together by the business at a 
discount, rather than being two parts of one course.
And considering that the second course was available for some time to Mrs T and that Mrs T 
had opportunity to use it but decided not to, Im not persuaded this complaint should 
succeed. I think the £500 offered by NBS is very fair. Accordingly I see no persuasive reason 
to uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision Mrs T wishes to read. However Mrs T had the course 
available to her in a reasonable time within the context of the surrounding events and didnt 
take it. So the offer by NBS is decidedly fair to my mind. And I think the £100 offered for its 
handling of the matter by NBS is fair considering all circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is decision to not uphold this complaint about Nationwide 
Building Society. So it has nothing further to do here other than honour its offer of £600 total 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman