DRN-3338927
The complaint
Mr G complains that he didnt receive the cheque Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva) said 
it sent him in respect of the benefits relating to a deferred pension he held. He wants the 
cheque he says wasnt sent to him to be reissued. 
What happened
Mr G belonged to an employers occupational pension scheme which he left behind after 
being made redundant. He says he assumed his deferred pension remained frozen. In 
2002 the scheme was wound up and individual members were given the option of how their 
remaining benefits should be treated. In early 2004 the scheme trustees issued discharge 
forms to Aviva for a number of members who wished to take their benefits as a commuted 
lump sum  one of who was Mr G.
In July 2019 Mr G contacted Aviva to find out what had happened to his plan. Aviva said 
that, as Mr G had completed less than two years service in the scheme, it had sent him a 
cheque to the value of the contributions made, in 2004. It said no further benefits were 
payable. 
Mr G sent his bank statements from around that time to Aviva, explaining that there was no 
record of the cheque being paid in. He said he could either chase up the cheque with his 
bank if Aviva provided the details  or Aviva could issue him a new cheque for encashment. 
Aviva confirmed the cheque number and date it had been issued  and that the payee was 
Mr G. It said the cheque was for £816.55. But it also confirmed that it couldnt make any 
further checks due to not holding any records that far back. It said that Mr Gs bank 
statements didnt substantiate his claim as it was likely he held more than one bank account 
at the time that the cheque could have been paid into.
After further investigation Aviva confirmed that the cheque had been sent to the address that 
Mr G lived at in 2004, so there was nothing further it could do. However, it accepted it had 
delayed in responding to Mr Gs complaint and paid him £150 for the inconvenience that 
would have caused.
Mr G wasnt happy with that response, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. The investigator thought that, on balance, Aviva had 
sent the cheque to Mr G and that there was no evidence that it had been rejected or 
returned as being out of date. He accepted that Mr G had shown it hadnt been paid into his 
main bank account, but he said it wasnt now possible to show what account the money 
might have been paid into because of the passage of time that had passed. 
He thought the compensation of £150 that Aviva had paid for the delay in responding to 
Mr Gs complaint was a fair and reasonable resolution.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he never received the cheque and his bank had proved it wasnt 
cashed. He said other people who worked at the same employer have said theyve not 
received cheques either and he thought this meant it was more likely than not that cheques 
werent received and cashed. The investigator said he was only considering the merits of 
Mr Gs complaint and had seen little evidence that persuaded him that Aviva had acted 
unfairly. 
But Mr G wanted his complaint to be reconsidered and so it was passed to me for a review. 
My first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision I took a different view to that of our investigator and said 
Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. I made the following points in support of my provisional 
findings:
I was satisfied, based on the evidence available, that Aviva had raised a cheque for 
Mr Gs returned pension contributions and had sent it to the address that it held for 
him at the time. 
Aviva had demonstrated that it had searched its records to show the cheque hadnt 
remained uncashed, had expired or been returned. 
But Aviva hadnt been able to demonstrate the cheque was cashed  which was the 
most compelling evidence that it had been received.   
Post does on occasion fail to arrive at its destination and there was no evidence to 
suggest Mr G had been made aware a cheque was on its way to him so that he could 
contact Aviva if it hadnt arrived.
I thought it was likely that, as Aviva still had records of the cheque being raised and 
issued, it should have records of the amounts paid into and out of its pension 
accounts in 2004. I thought Aviva should be able to look at its client records for a 
period of six months after the cheque was issued to determine if it was cashed.
If Aviva wasnt able to demonstrate the funds (for the cheque amount) were 
encashed, then it ought to refund the contributions to Mr G  along with interest that 
would have accrued from the funds remaining with Aviva. 
The £150 Aviva had paid Mr G for the delay in responding to his complaint seemed 
fair in the circumstances.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr G accepted my provisional decision, but Aviva didnt and made the following points:
It had provided all the evidence that it could locate. Due to the passage of time that 
had elapsed and the law on data retention, it couldnt find any further information.
Our usual approach, where it was proven that a letter was sent, was to assume that 
the letter was delivered. It was surprised we had taken an alternative view here  
which it thought was unfair. 
We also had a similar complaint from Mrs G, so Aviva thought it unlikely both 
wouldnt have received their cheques. Especially as the cheques were sent to 
different addresses. 
My second provisional decision
Following Avivas further submissions which included a number of documents from the 
scheme file  which had recently been located, I then took a different view of what I thought 
had happened and reached a different outcome. I thought Mr Gs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld and made the following new points:While we might assume post was sent if the evidence suggested so, we wouldnt 
necessarily assume it was delivered. Aviva couldnt be held responsible if post wasnt 
delivered, but I might still arrive at a conclusion that Mr G ought to be given a refund 
of his contributions  that conclusion would be drawn from other, reasonable 
indicators such as other records held by Aviva.
I asked Aviva to look at its client account to see if could confirm the cheque being 
drawn against it, but it didnt have such records available. It also wasnt able to check 
its banking records  and I accepted that with data minimisation a main driver behind 
the GDPR requirements, it might be unreasonable to expect Aviva to confirm an 
individual cheque entry from 17 years ago.
So I would have to make a decision on what happened based on the balance of 
probability, particularly in light of Avivas new information from the original pension 
scheme file.
That information demonstrated that Mr G had been advised that he would be 
receiving a sizeable payment from Aviva in due course and that it would be in the 
form of a cheque. So I think Mr G was on notice to receive this payment and I would 
have expected him to contact Aviva if it hadnt been received after a reasonable time 
period. Avivas records would suggest the cheque was sent within two months of the 
original signposting letter from January 2004  which I dont think was an 
unreasonable time period for Mr G to expect the cheque.
Mr G didnt contact Aviva during this time to request an alternative method of 
payment, so it was reasonable to assume he still expected a cheque.
Theres no record of the cheque having expired  which could have been the case if 
Mr G didnt cash it. But I think its unlikely that Mr G wouldnt have bothered to cash a 
cheque for over £800 in 2004.   
Mr Gs wife has also made a similar complaint about a missing cheque  but, while 
Im not offering any comment on her case, I do think its less likely that two cheques  
which I think were sent  both went missing. 
So I thought that, on balance, Mr G did receive his cheque.
Responses to the second provisional decision
Aviva didnt provide a response, but Mr G said he was sure that he didnt receive the 
payment or any correspondence from Aviva about his plan. He asked to see the documents I 
had referred to in my provisional decision as he thought it strange that Aviva had only now 
found the scheme paperwork. He also accepted it was unlikely that two separate cheques 
would go missing which he thought suggested they werent sent in the first place. 
Mr G also said other scheme members had suffered similar problems and were also told 
cheques had been sent to them, so he thought the evidence suggested the cheques werent 
sent out as Aviva had stated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having considered the additional points that have been made by Mr G, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. I know Mr G maintains that he didnt receive the 
cheque from Aviva, and Ive seen the strength of his feelings about the matter. But I dont 
think Aviva has done anything wrong here  which I know is an outcome that will disappoint Mr G, so Ill explain my reasoning. 
Aviva says it refunded Mr Gs contributions from a wound up occupational pension scheme 
in 2004. It says it sent him a cheque for £816.55 and has provided details of the cheque 
number, the date it was issued and the address it was sent to. Unfortunately, due to the 
passage of time, its unable to check its bank account or client records to demonstrate that 
the cheque was cashed or possibly even expired.
Mr G on the other hand denies receiving the cheque and has provided details of his bank 
account to demonstrate that such a payment wasnt made to that account around that time.
From the evidence that Ive seen Im satisfied that Aviva produced and issued the cheque. 
Im also satisfied that it was sent to the correct address that was held for Mr G at the time. 
But theres no evidence to confirm it was received, or indeed cashed. Post does occasionally 
get lost and I cant hold Aviva responsible for that happening. But if the cheque didnt arrive, 
even though that might not be Avivas responsibility, that doesnt mean Mr G wouldnt be 
entitled to a refund of his pension contributions.  
In cases like this, where its just not possible to be sure what happened, I have to look to 
other records and documentation from the time to determine what I think was most likely to 
have happened, in other words on the balance of probability.
Following my provisional decision Aviva was able to locate the scheme file which I 
understand contained around 15,000 separate pages. Within this file Ive seen two 
documents which showed Mr G was made aware that a payment was due to him from the 
pension scheme and that, if he gave his authorisation, he would receive that payment. Aviva 
set out the background to what scheme members might receive in a letter dated 
15 January 2003.  The letter noted the various options members had following the winding 
up of the scheme saying that, if the members value including any final bonuses is under 
£2,500 and they do not have contracted out monies under their policies, they can receive the 
money back under the ground of commutation and this would be taxed under Inland 
Revenue regulations (currently 20%).  
So this made it clear that Mr G would qualify for that option based on the value of his 
deferred pension benefits. 
The following January it would appear that the pathway to paying the scheme members had 
been cleared as Mr G received a letter from the scheme administrator which confirmed he 
would be receiving the lump sum payment hed requested and that, If you are
happy with this you need do nothing and you will receive a cheque from Norwich Union in
due course.  
This confirmed that payment of the benefits would be made to Mr G by means of a cheque. 
So by this point Mr G ought to have been aware that he was going to receive a cheque, from 
Aviva (then Norwich Union) in due course. 
I think it was therefore reasonable for Mr G to expect that payment within a month or two at 
most, and I would have expected him to have challenged Aviva if the cheque had not arrived 
within that period of time. The amount due to be paid was not insignificant. Mr G was told it 
would be £785.74 in the discharge form he signed in December 2003 and returned to Aviva 
to start the process. So I dont think Mr G would have overlooked the impending payment of 
such a sizeable cheque in 2004.
I think Mr G would have questioned Aviva if he hadnt received the cheque, for an amount 
similar to what hed been told about, within a reasonable timeframe after 15 January 2004. I 
think that, on balance, he did receive the cheque and would most likely have cashed a cheque of that value at the time. I know Mr G has provided his bank statements from around 
that time to show that he didnt cash the cheque. But given the fact this happened nearly 20 
years ago I cant discount the fact that Mr G might have had other accounts in which he 
could have paid in such a sum of money. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Aviva sent out the cheque, to the correct address, in 2004. And 
Im persuaded that Mr G was sufficiently involved in the process of members benefits being 
discharged throughout 2003, that he knew hed be receiving around £800, in the form of a 
cheque, shortly after January 2004.  These circumstances mean I find it difficult not to 
conclude that, on balance, Mr G did receive the cheque, and that he would most likely have 
subsequently encashed it.
Mr G has referred to his wife and other scheme members as similarly not having received 
their refund of contributions either. He says this would suggest the error is with Aviva rather 
than the members. I havent been provided with any evidence to show that other members, 
apart from Mrs G, have lodged complaints with Aviva. Im not in a position to make 
comments about other complaints  Mrs Gs complaint will be considered separately. But, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr G received his 
cheque.      
In my first provisional decision I said that Avivas payment of £150 for the delay in 
responding to Mr Gs complaint was fair and reasonable. Complaint handling in itself isnt a 
regulated activity, so I cant consider Avivas handling of the complaint overall as a separate 
issue. But in the context of the overall complaint I believe the payment to be a fair and 
reasonable one.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman