The complaint
Ms C complains about three short term loans she took out with Western Circle Limited, 
trading as Cashfloat, (WCL), which she said were unaffordable. 
What happened
Ms C took out three short term loans with WCL between December 2018 and August 2019. 
The loans were repayable by two to four monthly instalments. Loan 3 hasnt been repaid. 
A summary of the loans is shown below:
Loan number Date of loan Repayment date Loan amount 
1. 21/12/18 31/1/19 £500
2. 27/4/19 24/5/19 £200
3. 18/8/19 Unpaid £500
Ms C said that WCL had given her the loans despite her having payday loans with 11 or 12 
other payday lending companies, credit card debts of around £15,000, two long term loans 
with around £8,000 outstanding and a fully used overdraft.
WCL said that it had asked Ms C for her income and expenditure. It said it tested Ms Cs 
monthly outgoings against statistical data. If this resulted in higher expense figures than 
those provided by the consumer, it used the higher figures in its affordability assessment. 
WCL also carried out a comprehensive credit check. WCL also said that there was a gap of 
around three months between the loans. Ms C had repaid Loans 1 and 2 early which 
demonstrated that she wasnt in financial distress. WCL said that Ms C had ample 
disposable income to cover the loan repayments without affecting her ability to pay her 
existing credit commitments and critical living expenses.
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Cs complaint about Loans 1 to 3 should be upheld. 
She said that the information that WCL gathered showed that Ms C was having problems 
managing her money. WCL would have seen on its credit checks that Ms C already had 
three other outstanding short term loans with other lenders and WCL ought to have realised 
that it was unlikely that Ms C would be able to sustainably repay Loan 1 and any subsequent 
loans. 
DRN-1685518WCL disagreed and responded to say in summary that Ms C was in the early stages of 
lending, there were sufficient gaps in between the lending, Ms C had demonstrated 
adequate levels of disposable income and the loans were affordable and sustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Ms C took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
WCL needed to check that Ms C could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Ms C being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks WCL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Ms C would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
 
WCL did a number of checks before it lent to Ms C. It asked her for details of her income and 
expenditure. Ms C declared her monthly income as between £1,900 and £2,250 and her 
declared expenditure ranged from £880 to £1,170. 
I also note that WCL checked Ms Cs credit file before agreeing to the loans. WCL has 
provided this service with a copy of its credit checks. I shall refer to these below. 
Ms C needed to make four monthly loan repayments on Loan 1 with a highest repayment of 
£221.85. The repayment amounts for Loan 1 mightve looked affordable on the figures Ms C 
gave WCL. But what Ms C had told WCL about her financial situation was clearly at odds 
with the information WCL saw on its credit checks.  
I note that WCLs credit checks before Loan 1 showed that Ms C had 13 active accounts. 
The total loan and instalment credit borrowed amounted to £9,889. I think the large amount 
of borrowing and the high number of active accounts might have caused WCL some concerns. I can see that there were three short term loans outstanding that had each been 
taken out in the previous nine days. There were also six unsecured loans outstanding which 
had each been taken out in the previous six weeks. Some of these may have also been 
short term loans. So, I think the information WCL would have seen on its credit check 
shouldve made it realise that it looked like Ms C was having problems managing her money.
Although WCL didnt need to do full checks when Loan 1 was arranged, it did need to act on 
the information it had.  It ought to have seen that Ms C had at least three short term loans on 
its credit checks before Loan 1. So WCL was aware that Ms C was already committed to 
repaying a significant portion of her income to other short term loans. And there was a real 
risk that Ms C wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 1. So as a responsible 
lender, I dont think WCL should have given Loan 1 to Ms C.
I note there was a three month gap between the repayment of Loan 1 and Ms C taking out 
Loan 2. Whilst the loan amount had reduced, I note that Ms Cs income had also reduced, 
and her expenses had increased. WCL had provided us with less detailed information about 
its credit checks before Loan 2. But I think WCL should have been aware from its checks 
that at least three of the commitments shown on the credit checks were short term loans. 
And I think the amount of outstanding short term loans was a clear sign that Ms C was still 
likely finding it difficult to manage her money. In these circumstances I think WCL ought to 
have realised it was unlikely that Ms C would have been able to sustainably repay Loan 2 as 
well as Loan 3 which was taken only a few months later.
I note that WCL said that Ms C was in the early stages of her borrowing. But that doesnt 
mean that the loans were affordable for her. WCL also said that there were gaps between 
the loans. But the gaps werent so large that Ms Cs finances had moved on from whatever 
situation had required her previous loans. 
WCL also said that Ms C had demonstrated adequate levels of disposable income. But I 
think that WCL should have seen from its credit checks that Ms C was facing significant 
problems managing her money and I dont think it was reasonable for WCL to conclude that 
the repayments were sustainably affordable. I also appreciate that Ms C repaid Loans 1 and 
2 earlier than the agreed term. But successfully repaying her loans doesnt mean she 
managed to do so in a sustainable way.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint and I think that WCL 
needs to pay Ms C some compensation relating to Loans 1 to 3. So WCL should put things 
right as shown below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, to take the following steps:
If WCL has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If WCL isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. WCL should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards 
interest, fees and charges on Loans 1 and 2, not including anything WCL may have 
already refunded.
2. WCL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by        
Ms C which were considered as part of 1., calculated from the date Ms C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.3. WCL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on
Loan 3, and treat any repayments made by Ms C on Loan 3 as though they had been
repayments of the principal on Loan 3. If this results in Ms C having made
overpayments then WCL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen,
to the date the complaint is settled. WCL should then refund the amounts calculated
in 1. and 2. and move to step 5..
4. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in 1. and 2.
should be used to repay any balance remaining on Loan 3. If this results in a surplus,
then the surplus should be paid to Ms C. However, if there is still an outstanding
balance then WCL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms C. WCL
shouldnt pursue any outstanding balance made up of principal it has already written-
off.
5. WCL should remove any adverse entries about Loans 1 to 3 from Ms Cs credit file.
*HMRC requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. If Ms C asks WCL for a certificate
showing how much tax WCL has taken off, it should provide this. If WCL intends to use the
refund to reduce an amount Ms C owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman