DRN-2089078
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Startline Motor Finance Limited handled his hire purchase 
agreement when he was unable to meet the payments due.  
What happened
In August 2017 Mr D took a used car on a five-year hire purchase agreement from Startline. 
By around April 2019, however, Mr D was having difficulty making the monthly payments 
required, having lost his job. He contacted Startline, which suggested that he voluntarily 
surrender the car. Startline explained that it would then be sold and the proceeds deducted 
from the amount outstanding under the hire purchase agreement. Starline also said that 
voluntary termination of the agreement wasnt open to Mr D, as he hadnt at that point paid 
half the amount due under it. It also explained that it would register a default against Mr Ds 
name and that any outstanding liability would be passed to another business to collect.
Mr D handed the car back as arranged, and Startline sold it at auction, deducting the sale 
proceeds from the amount it was seeking from Mr D. That still left some £5,600 outstanding. 
Mr D complained about how he had been treated. In particular, he was unhappy about the 
default marker which would, he said, affect his ability to obtain credit. Startline didnt 
consider it had done anything wrong, and so Mr D referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered it.
The investigator concluded that Startline was within its rights to register a default against Mr 
Ds name. She also said, however, that it should have given Mr D the option of voluntary 
termination of the agreement. Had it done so, Mr Ds outstanding liability would probably 
have been around £3,000 less than was in fact the case. The investigator recommended that 
Startline re-calculate the amount due on that basis and pay Mr D £200 in recognition of the 
distress hed been caused and inconvenience to which hed been put.
Startline didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. In summary, Startline said:
Voluntary termination wasnt available to Mr D because he hadnt paid half the amount 
due under the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr D would have been liable to pay the balance due within 30 days, but his financial 
situation meant that wasnt possible for him. 
Mr D hadnt in any event complained about not having the voluntary termination option; 
his complaint had been about the default. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin with Mr Ds complaint about the registration of a default. When Mr D surrendered 
the car, he had already missed some payments. He was unable to repay the amount due 
after the car was sold, and has now agreed a repayment plan. 
Lenders and other financial businesses share information about customers, amongst other 
things so they can make informed lending decisions. They do so on a mutual basis and 
agree with credit reference agencies that they will provide accurate information. I dont 
believe the information provided by Startline was inaccurate  it properly reflected that Mr D 
had surrendered the car because he couldnt any longer afford the repayments. 
The investigator went on to recommend, however, that Startline re-calculate the amount due 
on the basis of voluntary termination rather than voluntary surrender. Startline said that she 
shouldnt have done that, because Mr D hadnt complained about how the agreement was 
ended or the advice hed received in connection with that. His complaint was limited to the 
default. 
I agree that Mr D didnt expressly say that the agreement should have been ended in a 
different way. I think though it was clear that he was generally unhappy about the response 
he received when he told Startline that he was having difficulty making payments and 
wanted to end the agreement. Startlines approach to that should have taken Mr Ds needs 
into account and considered the best option for him  still having regard of course to 
Startlines own rights under the hire purchase agreement. In recommending that Startline re-
calculate the amount due under the agreement, the investigator was, in my view, suggesting 
a remedy to the complaint Mr D had made, not introducing a new complaint. 
There are two main ways a customer can end a hire purchase agreement before the end of 
the hire period  voluntary surrender and voluntary termination. Under voluntary surrender, 
the goods are returned and sold. The customer is then liable to pay any balance remaining 
after deduction of the net sale proceeds. Its often used where the customer is having 
difficulty making payments, but it avoids the costs of repossession. 
Voluntary termination is a right under section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which 
says that a customer can end a hire purchase agreement at any time before the final 
repayment date. A customer who gives notice under section 99 is liable to pay no more than 
half of the total amount due under the agreement. If theyve already paid that much, they 
cant be asked to pay any more (unless, for example, charges for damage are due). Its 
commonly used where a customer no longer needs or wants the goods. These provisions of 
the Consumer Credit Act were reflected in the hire purchase agreement. 
Startline says that voluntary termination wasnt available because Mr D hadnt already paid 
half the total amount payable under the agreement. But neither the Act nor the agreement 
itself say thats a requirement. The agreement says: If you have already paid at least this 
amount  you will not have to pay any more That is, it contemplates a situation where 
the customer has paid less than half the amount payable. 
Section 99 of the Act says an agreement can be ended at any time before the final payment 
is due; that right isnt conditional on a certain amount already having been paid. And section 
100 of the Act (which sets out what happens when notice is given under section 99) includes 
 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does 
not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of 
the total price exceeds the aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the 
total price immediately before the termination. It clearly contemplates ( shall be liable) 
a situation where money will still be owed after termination. 
The second argument that Startline makes is that Mr D wasnt able within 30 days to make the payment due as a result of voluntary termination. I accept that Mr D wasnt able to make 
such a payment. Again, however, that isnt a condition of voluntary termination, either in the 
Act or the hire purchase agreement. In my view, the wording of section 100 makes it clear 
that the liability to pay up to half of the total due under the agreement is triggered by a notice 
under section 99; payment isnt a condition of being entitled to give notice.   
In some cases, voluntary surrender may be better for the customer than voluntary 
termination  for example, where the goods are likely to be worth more than the amount 
outstanding under the hire purchase agreement. It was however clear in my view that that 
was unlikely to have been the case here. I also note from Mr Ds contact with Startline that it 
dismissed the option of voluntary termination on the grounds that he hadnt already paid half 
the amount due. Ive explained that that wasnt a barrier to that process, and why. 
Putting things right
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Startline should have considered 
voluntary termination in Mr Ds case. Had it done so, its likely that his liability would have 
been less than Startline claimed. It should therefore re-calculate Mr Ds liability as if the hire 
purchase agreement had been validly terminated under section 99 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
My final decision
My final decision is that Startline Motor Finance Limited should re-calculate Mr Ds liability to 
it as if he had given valid notice to terminate the hire purchase agreement under section 99 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman