DRN-3113812
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr D entered into a three year hire agreement to acquire a brand new car. The 
agreement reached maturity in May 2021. On 18 May 2021, the car was collected by MBFS 
recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B.
When the car was collected, an inspection was carried out by B and Mr D was present. B 
issued a preliminary report identifying some areas of damage. It identified the following 
damage which it said fell outside fair wear and tear:
Left hand front alloy  scratched over 50mm
Left hand rear alloy  scratched over 50mm
Right hand rear alloy  scratched over 50mm
Right hand front alloy  scratched over 50mm
Right hand front door  dented
Following this on 21 May 2021, a second inspection was carried out by B. Mr D wasnt 
present. B issued a further report which identified the following additional damage which it 
said fell outside fair wear and tear:
Bumper front  dented with paint damage
Left hand front bumper chrome moulding  scratched
Right hand front bumper chrome moulding  dented
Left hand front door  dented
Left hand rear quarter panel  dented
Mr D complained to MBFS, as he didnt think it was fair for MBFS to charge him for the 
additional damage. He said the damage could have been caused when the car was 
transported by B.
In July 2021, MBFS looked into Mr Ds complaint. It said it was part of its process to carry 
out a second inspection and the additional charges had been applied correctly in line with 
MBFS vehicle return standards (VRS). It said no damage had been caused whilst the car 
was being transported by B. Unhappy with this, Mr D referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint, but thought the charges were applied fairly in 
line with MBFS VRS and the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. He also thought the damage to the 
bumper was likely to have occurred during the three years Mr D had the car, rather than 
within the three days between the inspections being carried out.
Mr D disagreed and said there was no evidence of any damage to the bumper on the day 
the car was collected by B. He said he didnt think it could have been missed by B when the 
initial report was carried out. But he accepted that some of the smaller damage could have 
been missed. 
Mr D remains in disagreement, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. As Mr D 
has said he is disputing the three most costly damages identified when the second 
inspection was carried out, Ive only focused on these as part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS isnt a member of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Ds hire agreement and these explain the standards that MBFS 
expected this car to meet on return. When Mr D acquired his car under the hire agreement, 
he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the VRS. And he agreed that 
MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or 
the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as compensation. 
The car was around three years old at the point of inspection and it had covered just over 
18,000 miles. So, while Ill take into consideration the BVRLA guidance and MBFS VRS, Ill 
also think about whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
Bs report identified areas where the bumper or bumper moulding was scratched or dented.
The VRS say the following damage to a bumper is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
(manufacturer name) are acceptable.
They say the following is not acceptable:
Discoloured, loose, cracked, distorted, gouged or split bumpers and mouldings that require 
replacement, plastic welding or painting are not acceptable. 
Dented bumpers and/or any dents penetrating through to the base material where painted 
are not acceptable.
Scuff marks in excess of 50mm (2) are not acceptable.
In relation to dents to bumpers, BVRLA guidance says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken. Chips within dents are not acceptable. Dents on 
the roof or swage line of any panel are not acceptable.
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Having looked at the photographs, I can see that the bumper has a scratch where it has 
penetrated the base material. Its unclear whether this is in excess of 25mm or not, but I 
dont think this matters. This is because the bumper also has a number of scratches at the bottom of the bumper which are in excess of 50mm. I think these scratches, alongside the 
scratch that has penetrated through to the base material, adversely affect the overall 
appearance of the car. And so MBFS are entitled to charge for the repair of this damage.
The inspection report also identified scratches to the left hand front bumper chrome 
moulding. The photographs provided show scratches across the moulding. As these 
scratches are in excess of 50mm, I think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr D for the repair of 
this panel.
The pictures also show a dent on the right hand front bumper chrome moulding. This dent is 
less than 15mm, but it appears it has caused the moulding to become chipped. The VRS 
only mentions chips which penetrate the paintwork. So Ive considered the BVRLA guidance. 
BVRLA guidance states that Chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they 
are not rusted. 
Whilst the chip in the moulding isnt rusted and a ruler hasnt been used, the chip looks 
larger than 3mm  which is outside what is considered acceptable under the BVRLA 
guidance. It also penetrates the base material and I think it adversely affects the appearance 
of the car. So I think MBFS are entitled to charge for this cost.
Bs second report
MBFS instructed B to carry out a second inspection. Bs initial report says, Your vehicle will 
go through a secondary inspection at the (manufacturer name) Defleet Centre and an 
invoice showing all charges will be sent to you. Im satisfied MBFS was entitled to carry out 
a second inspection and I can see it communicated this to Mr D.
Mr D says he thinks its unlikely B would have missed the additional damage identified whilst 
carrying out the first inspection and that the damage could have been caused between both 
inspections taking place. 
Mr D sent our service a video and some pictures showing the alloys, the right hand front 
door and the left hand side of the car, taken before the car was collected by B. However, the 
video shows the car with water drops on it and some dirt. Its difficult to see the damage 
highlighted by Bs reports in Mr Ds video. I need to consider that both of Bs inspections 
were carried out when the car appeared to be cleaner and in better lighting conditions. 
Having said this, Ive still taken Mr Ds evidence into account, when considering whether its 
fair for MBFS to charge for the damage identified in Bs reports.
Having reviewed the additional damage identified by B, I think its unlikely any damage was 
caused in transit and within the three days between both inspections. I say this because the 
additional damage identified to the left hand bumper moulding is likely to have been caused 
over time, given how extensive the scratches are. The dent in the right hand bumper 
moulding isnt clearly visible in any of the videos provided by B or Mr D. However, the videos 
dont focus on this area and no pictures were taken of this area in the first inspection. On 
balance, I think this damage was likely to have been caused whilst the car was in Mr Ds 
possession. 
The scratch to the bumper, although faint, is visible in the video in the first report carried out 
by B. I think the additional dents to the left hand front door and right hand quarter panel are 
likely to have been missed in Bs first inspection. I say this because I think theyre difficult to 
see without a zebra board being placed next to them. Again I cant see these in the videos 
provided by B or Mr D and the videos dont focus on these areas. So I think these are likely 
to have been identified by B upon closer investigation when carrying out the second 
inspection.As Im persuaded the additional damage identified in Bs report was likely to have been 
caused whilst Mr D was in possession of the car, I think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr D for 
the damage B identified.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman