DRN-3763066
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as U complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited havent given it freedom to choose its own solicitor after it made a claim for legal 
representation under its policy.
What happened
In June 2020 U purchased a motor trade insurance policy which also covered it for legal 
expenses. Following a contract dispute with another business U submitted a claim under the 
legal expenses section of that policy in January 2021.
DAS requested further information to assess the claim but sent this request to the wrong 
email address. Once they discovered their mistake, they later sent their request to the 
correct address a few weeks later. U provided the information requested by DAS on 16 April 
2021 which was around ten weeks after the second request was sent.
DAS assessed the information and requested further information on 20 May 2021. 
U responded the same day providing the information. On 4 June 2021 DAS then requested 
information that U had already provided and answered some of the questions U had asked.
On 8 June 2021, U raised concerns that DAS had ignored information and questions raised 
in multiple emails. And on 17 June 2021 DAS confirmed cover for the claim and provided 
information about appointing legal representation.
U were unhappy that DAS said they had to use a panel solicitor and felt the policy wasnt 
clear on the applicable hourly rate for an appointed representative. They were also unhappy 
with DAS handling of the claim more generally so they complained. DAS responded on 
6 August 2021. They accepted there had been some failings in the service provided and 
offered U £300 to compensate it for this. But they maintained their position on U being 
unable to choose their own solicitors at this point in time. 
Our investigator considered Us complaint and concluded that DAS had acted in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions in relation to freedom of choice of solicitor and that U 
werent at the stage they were entitled to choose their own legal representative. The 
investigator also thought that £300 was a fair and reasonable award of compensation in the 
circumstances. As U remained unhappy the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on it 
all. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to them but rather reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
DAS have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. The terms and conditions set 
out what is and isnt covered and form the agreement between U and DAS. The policy terms 
and conditions say: 
We will pay an Appointed Representative, on your behalf, Costs and Expenses incurred 
following an insured incident, and any compensation awards that we have agreed to
An Appointed Representative is defined as
The Preferred Law Firm, law firm, tax consultancy, accountant or other suitably qualified 
person We appoint to act on the Insured Persons behalf.
 
The policy also outlines that upon receiving a claim, if legal representation is necessary they 
will appoint a preferred law firm or tax consultancy as the insureds appointed representative 
to handle the claim. 
Where settlement cant be negotiated and its necessary to go to court, it explains:
If the appointed Preferred Law Firm or tax consultancy cannot negotiate settlement of 
Your claim and it is necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued or there is 
a conflict of interest, then You may, if You prefer, choose a law firm or tax expert of Your 
own choice to act as the Appointed Representative. We will choose the Appointed 
Representative to represent You in any proceedings where We are liable to pay a 
compensation award.
If You choose a law firm as Your Appointed Representative who is not a Preferred Law 
Firm or tax consultancy, We will give Your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on 
the same terms as a Preferred Law Firm or tax consultancy. However if they refuse to 
act on this basis, the most We will pay is the amount We would have paid if they had 
agreed to the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment. The amount We will pay a law firm 
(where acting on Your behalf) is currently £100 per hour.
This means that U are entitled to choose their own solicitor once its necessary to go to court 
or where there may be a conflict of interest.  But the cost of doing that is limited to £100 per 
hour.
Im not aware of a conflict of interest and as the claim was in the earlier stages of the 
process and not at the point of court proceedings it wasnt unreasonable for DAS to say that 
U wasnt entitled to appoint its own representative at that stage which accords with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Im aware Us representative has said that U hadnt received a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions referred to above. They shared a different policy document that wasnt 
underwritten by DAS and appears to be the policy U held the previous policy year, which 
didnt specify an hourly rate. However, having reviewed the policy schedule covering 
June 2020  June 2021 Im satisfied that the policy is underwritten by DAS and is the one 
Ive quoted from above. And the policy schedule refers U to the motor trade policy 2020 v1.0 
terms and conditions. It says:
All claims are subject to the policys terms, conditions and applicable limits. Please refer 
to the Legal Expenses Section, and Motor Legal Protection Section of your new x policy 
wording for full details of the cover provided.Whilst I cant tell whether U received the policy terms when it took out the policy, they were 
made available through the references contained within the policy schedule, If U was in any 
doubt about the applicable terms after it took out the cover, it couldve asked DAS to provide 
these to it. 
DAS have explained that it would consider appointing a policyholders own choice of solicitor 
before proceedings become necessary where the circumstances of their claim is very 
complex. Us representative has said that its case is complicated and they believe this is 
supported by the third party seeking queens council support, but DAS disagrees. There may 
be a number of reasons a third party solicitor may seek advice from a QC but that in itself 
doesnt mean the case is so complex that it couldnt be dealt with by a panel solicitor. 
Based on everything the parties have provided, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
Us claim is too complex for a panel firm to take on or that it needs to be dealt with by  
specialist firm that isnt available on DAS panel of solicitors. Its important to note that the 
policy terms dont oblige DAS to offer freedom of choice of solicitor had that situation been 
established but we might agree thats the right approach for a business to take in those 
circumstances. As I dont think they apply here, I havent commented on this further.
DAS handling
Us representative has raised concerns about the delay in progressing the claim and that 
DAS hasnt provided the paperwork requested in relation to the terms for appointing your 
own solicitor. They feel has also delayed things. 
On 5 August 2021 DAS explained, for U to appoint their own solicitor, the claim would need 
to be at the stage where court action is needed to resolve matters. And if the claim reached 
that stage they would send the necessary paperwork to a non-panel solicitor. So DAS have 
explained why this information hasnt yet been made available.
I can see at times it did take a long time for DAS to follow up on correspondence and 
progress things. The lack of correspondence and delays would have caused U some 
inconvenience in chasing for action. DAS have accepted there has been delays in 
progressing the claim, they apologised for this. They also offered U £300 in compensation.
As U is a company, I cant award it compensation for anything other than inconvenience or 
financial loss, In this case it took U about 10 weeks to provide the information requested by 
DAS so although I appreciate DAS caused some delays too, I dont think the time it took to 
progress Us claim was entirely down to DAS actions. Because of this I cant hold it 
responsible for all the delays in their entirety. 
Overall I think the £300 DAS have offered fairly compensates U for the inconvenience 
caused by DAS delays. As such I wont be recommending DAS does anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay U 
£300 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman