DRN-4323221
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited blocked and closed his account 
without a reason. Hed like compensation for the way he was treated.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Creation. On 24 August 2021 He received a letter from Creation 
saying his account would close due to inactivity and Creation had placed a block on Mr S 
card. Mr S hadnt used his account since March 2020.  Mr S contacted Creation on 
1 September 2021  he was advised his account would be unblocked but he should use his 
card within 24 hours.
Mr S later received a letter dated 28 September 2021 giving him notice that his account 
would close on 3 December 2021.
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to Creation. Creation said they were entitled to 
close the account as per the terms and conditions. They also said that they had higher than 
expected call volumes but had resolved Mr Ss query when he called.
Unhappy with the response Mr S complained to our service. Mr S was concerned his 
account had been blocked and he hadnt been able to make payments online. He didnt think 
Creation had made themselves available to answer his queries, the letter gave an incorrect 
number, and his complaint wasnt fully addressed.
After Mr S brought the complaint to our service, Creation made an offer. Mr S rejected the 
offer he thought his complaint didnt relate to the general offers but was in relation to 
customer service issues he had encountered when dealing with Creation.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought the offer was fair. She also 
looked at the service issues Mr S had complained about. She thought Creation had 
responded to Mr Ss concerns. She accepted Mr S had had to contact Creation, but she 
thought this was the normal degree of inconvenience when pursuing a complaint and didnt 
warrant compensation.
Mr S disagreed. he thought the recordings of his conversations with Creation should have 
been kept as this would evidence what had happened. He thought Creation had deliberately 
destroyed the evidence and in doing so had thwarted a fair process. He says Creation 
blocked his account before the closure, so he wasnt treated fairly. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account Closure
Mr S received a notice to close the account dated 28 September 2021. It gave him 60 days 
notice that his account would close on 3 December 2021.
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr S account. The terms explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by 
giving 60 days notice. I understand this is disappointing for Mr S however, by providing the 
full notice period here I cant say Creation have acted unfairly.
Account block 
Mr S had said his account was blocked. And he called Creation on 1 September 2021. I can 
see from the system notes that Mr S was advised that his account had been unblocked and 
that he needed to spend some money online within 24 hours of the unblock in order to be 
able to continue to use his card. 
Mr S received a text message advising him on 5 August 2021 that he needed to create a 
new online payment code (OPC) so as to be able to continue to shop online.  An OPC is 
designed to help prevent fraudulent activity and is an additional security measure. Creation 
introduced this system and customers needed to enrol in order to continue to use their card. 
Creation have said Mr S was made aware that this needed to be set up.
Mr S has said despite the information given to him the functionality on his card was reduced. 
Mr S was concerned he hadnt been given correct information, so he raised a service 
complaint.
I have looked at the information provided to me regarding the account block. Im satisfied 
that Creation acted fairly when they blocked the account. Also, I am satisfied that Mr S was 
given correct information regarding what he had to do to keep the account open. Looking at 
the information it appears Mr S didnt spend money online and this may be because he 
hadnt gone through the process of creating an OPC. This may well account for his loss of 
functionality on the card. However, this isnt something that Creation can be held liable for.
I can see he was able to make payments from 1 September 2021, so the card was usable in 
some circumstances.
Mr S has said he was given incorrect information regarding his need to use the card for a 
chip and pin transaction in order to activate the card. From what Creation have said to us it 
seems that Mr S did have to activate the card through chip and pin however I can 
understand that he may not have wanted to do so if he was shielding. I cant hold Creation 
liable for this though.
Phone calls to Creation 
Mr S has said the phone number on the letter advising him to confirm he still wanted his 
account was wrong. I appreciate this meant he had to go on the website instead. But Im 
satisfied Mr S found a way to contact Creation with an alternative number found on the 
website so I dont think this prevented him from resolving the issue although I understand it 
may have been annoying to Mr S.
Mr S has said he contacted creation 10 or 11 times. Mr S is unhappy that Creation have 
destroyed the evidence of the phone calls. I appreciate the frustration Mr S is feeling and he 
believes that had Creation kept the phone calls it would be clear that he had been treated 
unfairly.The case notes which are contemporaneous suggest that Mr S phoned and his query was 
answered. He then didnt want to wait to speak to customer service team as there was a 
long wait. I can understand why he may not have wanted to wait. But it is to be expected that 
there will be busy times when phoning businesses and that of itself doesnt mean Mr S has 
been treated unfairly.
I appreciate that the phone calls not being available is frustrating to Mr S, but I can only look 
at what is available to me, and the phone calls recordings arent available. Mr S thinks there 
is something sinister in the destruction of the phone records, but I disagree. From what is 
available before me Im satisfied that Mr S was given correct information to solve his issue 
and he was told what to do to keep the card unblocked. So, I cant say that Creation have 
acted unfairly here. I also cant comment on whether an agent was dismissive of Mr S. 
In summary, I know Mr S is unhappy with the customer service he received on the calls but 
the contemporaneous notes from Creation suggest Mr S was given correct information. Mr S 
hasnt been able to provide specific examples of what was said and by what agent. Even if I 
accept that Mr S didnt receive the best customer service on some of the calls, and I 
appreciate that this will have caused him frustration and inconvenience, I dont think this 
warrants compensation. I say this because I recognise that making any complaint will usually 
come with a certain level of frustration.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman