DRN-3989164
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) purchased her debt of a 
loan from the administrators of the loan company, when it was still in dispute, and are 
pursuing recovery of the debt.
What happened
Mrs G took out a loan with a loan company, P, in November 2018. Subsequently she made a 
complaint of irresponsible lending, which P rejected. She was then told that P had gone into 
administration. She then raised her complaint with a firm, G, the administrators of P. She 
says she didnt receive any reply and she next heard that the loan had been sold to Lantern 
who contacted her about recovery of the debt.
Mrs G says that Lantern requested that she provide it with details of the dispute and it would 
contact G to investigate. She then heard from Lantern that it had been told by G that all 
claims had now closed so the debt remained with it for recovery. 
Mrs G made a complaint to Lantern that she had been led to believe that the account would 
be closed and returned to G. Lantern said in its final response that it didnt say that. It agreed 
to query the outcome of Mrs Gs claim with G, but when it established that this was not 
something it could do, it sent her the contact number so she could discuss the matter with G. 
It said it would put a 30 day hold on recovery to allow her to do this and was willing to 
discuss a payment plan. It also offered to accept a final payment of £550, the amount owing 
being £916.84.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator explained that Lantern 
wasnt responsible for the irresponsible lending and that G wasnt under our jurisdiction. So 
he couldnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs G said she understood that Lantern wasnt responsible for the original lending. But she 
said her complaint is that Lantern purchased a debt from the receivers that was still in 
dispute and are trying to collect on that debt. She believes Lantern had a responsibility to 
carry out due diligence, reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the debt was free 
from dispute.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe Mrs G understands that Lantern isnt responsible for any issues concerning the sale 
of the loan to her including irresponsible lending. Also that G doesnt come under our 
jurisdiction, so if she wishes to raise a complaint about G, she should contact it to ask it what 
the procedure is.
Generally debt recovery agents like Lantern are subject to the Consumer Credit (CONC) 
Rules contained in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (available online).
CONC 7.3.6 says:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
And it is subject to the overriding principle that:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
If a debt is still in an active dispute, I wouldnt expect a debt recovery firm to buy that debt. 
Nor would I expect the loan account holder to sell on such a debt. But I dont think its for that 
firm to check that the debt isnt in dispute before taking it on.
Here Mrs G told us in her complaint form that she contacted Lantern when it advised her the 
debt had been passed to it. Mrs G says it asked her to email it with the details and it would 
contact G and investigate. It appears that it did this but was told by G that it had closed its 
complaints process, and wasnt accepting any new complaints. Mindful that Mrs G had said 
she had raised a complaint with G, Lantern provided her with a contact number for her to 
discuss the matter with G. I dont know if she did this but I dont think Lantern needed to take 
any further steps with G. It had been told that the complaints process was closed so it 
advised Mrs G it wouldnt change its position. I think Lanterns actions were reasonable.
In respect of Lanterns dealings with the debt, Ive noted that it agreed to put the account on 
hold while Mrs G contacted G and also offered to accept a lower payment to clear the debt. 
It also said that it only wished to agree repayment plans which were considerate of Mrs Gs 
circumstances and affordable for her. So I think it acted appropriately with regard to 
repayment of the debt
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman