DRN-2264687
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have been 
charging them too much for their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds in 2011, which automatically 
renewed each year. In 2019 Mr and Mrs S said they went online and found a quote for 
around £240. As a result, they cancelled their policy with Lloyds and complained. 
Lloyds said the cost of the policy was based on risk, although some policies offered 
discounts for new customers. It said it had sent Mr and Mrs S renewal documents each year 
and it was their choice to renew.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this as they felt theyd been overcharged for a number of 
years. So, they brought their complaint to us. 
Lloyds remained satisfied it had treated Mr and Mrs S correctly. It said theyd called in 2014 
to query the price, so did think they were able to engage in the renewal process. It also said 
that Mr and Mrs S hadnt been charged more than they would have charged any other 
customer, simply because they renewed their policy each year. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
he thought Lloyds had treated them fairly. Mr and Mrs S still felt theyd been treated unfairly 
by Lloyds and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to resolve individual complaints between
consumers and financial businesses and our role isnt to regulate the insurance industry. So
I dont have the power to tell Lloyds how it should operate or what it should charge for
insurance. But I can look at whether Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs S fairly over the period
they held insurance. And if I dont think they were treated fairly, Im able to tell Lloyds to
put right any unfairness.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal 
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew,
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly 
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their
premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost. 
In this case, I dont believe Lloyds has unfairly increased the price of Mr and Mrs Ss
Policy, Ill now explain why. Mr and Mrs S had the policy from 2011 until 2019. During this 
time the policy increased in price from £410.23 when it was first taken to £681.39 in 2018. 
The renewal offered after this point wasnt accepted or paid by Mr and Mrs S. Lloyds said  
Mr and Mrs S called about their renewal in 2014 and this resulted in a discount being 
applied. 
Lloyds has told us that when the policy started in 2011 a new customer discount was 
applied. This means that the amount Mr and Mrs S had paid was less than the policy should 
have cost. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S would likely not have been aware that there was a 
discount, but nonetheless they benefitted from this discount. Lloyds then increased the 
premium over the next few years in order to recoup this discount. I think thats fair because it 
means over that time Mr and Mrs S havent paid Lloyds more than they should have done 
overall. 
From 2014 Lloyds has shown us how it prices its policies. I cant share this information, or 
tell Lloyds how much its allowed to charge for a policy, as thats its decision based on 
covering the insured risk plus factoring in additional commercial costs and profit. However, I 
can see that the way it prices policies represents a cap on the amount it should charge in 
order to cover those costs. Im unlikely to think Lloyds would have treated Mr and Mrs S 
fairly if it had charged them more than the capped amount, simply because theyd been a 
loyal customer and not shopped around. However, in this case Lloyds has shown that each 
year it charged Mr and Mrs S less than the cap. Lloyds also gave Mr and Mrs S a discount 
when they called in 2014. So, I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly in the 
amount it charged them. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S still feel that Lloyds has charged them too much each year 
because they could have got a policy cheaper. And I can appreciate it was frustrating for 
them to find they may have been able to buy a cheaper policy each year if theyd shopped 
around. However, different policies will offer different levels of cover. And any new policy 
theyve found could include a new customer discount, meaning its not reflective of the actual 
cost of the policy to the insurer. As Ive said, I cant tell Lloyds how much it can charge for a 
policy, I can only decide if its treated Mr and Mrs S fairly. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but I havent seen 
anything to show Lloyds has treated them unfairly, so Im not going to ask it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman