DRN-4112044
The complaint
Mr G complains he was given unsuitable investment advice by Aspect Financial Solutions 
Ltd (AFS). Hes represented in bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mainly refer 
just to Mr G. 
What happened
In 2013 AFS recommended Mr G invest £311,250 (made up of a cash sum of £49,800 along 
with a limited recourse loan for the balance) in an unregulated investment, Elysian Fuels 16 
LLP, which involved the purchase of unlisted shares in an Elysian Fuels PLC. £300,000 of 
Elysian stock was then sold to Mr Gs company as part of a secondary tax planning exercise 
intended to reduce his tax bill on repayment of his directors loan account.
Elysian Fuels subsequently failed, and the tax planning exercise was deemed a tax 
avoidance scheme by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC), resulting in Mr Gs tax liabilities 
being recalculated. He also lost the cash element of the investment. 
In 2020 Mr G complained to AFS that the recommendation had been unsuitable, saying, in 
brief, that it failed to take proper account of his circumstances and attitude to risk. Further, 
the adviser had failed to explain the investment and its associated risks.
AFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr Gs accountants had provided him with advice in 
respect of the tax arrangements, it being the primary driver behind the arrangement. AFS 
had been responsible only for the suitability of the investment element. The majority of the 
related documentation, including Mr Gs certification as a high-net-worth client, has been 
completed by the accountants.
AFS felt Mr G had accepted the high level of risk associated with the investment, which had 
been made clear in documentation issued to him, including in the suitability letter relating to 
Elysian, and also in respect of another similar scheme hed invested in at the same time. 
Further, hed been certified as a high-net-worth investor by his accountants.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said, in brief:
The Elysian investment involved a high level of risk, which matched the attitude to 
risk recorded for Mr G in the fact find. The suitability letter explained the high level of 
risk  that all could be lost  and that Mr G still wished to proceed. 
It wasnt reasonable to separate to the tax advice, which AFS had said Mr Gs 
accountants were responsible for, from the suitability of the investment. The potential 
tax benefits were the main reason behind the recommendation.
Mr G had investment experience and was certified as a high-net-worth client, so 
would likely have had a greater understanding of the risks involved. However, the 
adviser was still responsible for ensuring suitability. It wasnt sufficient to rely upon 
documentation to explain the risks. 
Although the investment may ultimately have been unsuitable for Mr G, it seems 
likely that he was keen to participate in the scheme to benefit from the potential tax 
advantages proposed by his accountants.  
The fact that Mr G was made aware of the risks and also agreed to them after 
receiving advice from his accountant, evidenced his appetite for tax mitigation and 
showed he was willing to following his accountants advice. The investigator was 
therefore persuaded he wouldve still have invested in Elysian even if the risks had 
been made clearer. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view, so the matter was referred to me to review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances, based on the information provided and taking into account relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and good 
industry practice at the time - where I consider it appropriate to do so. 
In reaching my findings, where theres conflicting information about what happened and 
gaps in what we know, I must weigh the evidence we do have and decide, on the balance of 
probabilities and in light of the wider circumstances, whats most likely to have happened
Further, although a great deal of information and comment has been provided so far, I dont 
intend to give a detailed response to every point raised. While Ive taken account of all the 
submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the crux of the 
complaint.
While the complaint as made focusses on the suitability of the investment advice for Mr G, I 
dont think that can reasonably be looked at in isolation, separate from the overall scheme of 
which it formed a part. That is, a tax planning exercise that involved Mr Gs accountants 
alongside the adviser. It went beyond simply making an investment of just under £50,000 
with an aim of capital growth. 
The suitability letter of 20 April 2013 issued to Mr G by the AFS adviser said that thered 
been an initial meeting in February 2013 to discuss Mr Gs corporation tax position and 
during this meeting the potential for extracting cash from his company in a tax efficient 
manner had been discussed. Theyd then met again on 19 April 2013 to discuss Elysian and 
complete the application process. 
That process involved the completion of various documents, many of which appear to have 
been generated and completed with the involvement of Mr Ds accountants during March 
2013, between the two meetings. These included a Statement of High Net Worth in which 
Mr Gs accountants confirmed his assets to be in excess of £500,000 and a Facility 
Application confirming his employment as a director of his company with an income of 
£100,000 and assets separate to his residential property totalling in excess of £1million. 
The suitability letter referred to a fact find having been completed and that the adviser had 
received (Mr Gs) Accountants tax evaluation. The fact-find contained limited information 
about Mr Gs circumstances. But it did record his objective as investment planning, with a 
specific note indicating the intention to invest a sum into a limited company to then pay off 
his directors loan. He was also categorised, in respect of his approach to investment, as a 
business investor with requirements of growth and tax efficiency and a Highly Speculative 
attitude to risk.  In respect of the tax evaluation mentioned in the suitability letter, I note Mr Gs 
representatives have queried the apparent reliance on this and whether such a document 
was ever actually created and provided to the adviser. AFS has confirmed it doesnt have a 
copy, but I dont think this necessarily confirms that one wasnt completed, or not provided to 
the adviser. 
It would seem likely, given the completion of the various documents by the accountants, that 
at least some degree of consideration wouldve been given by them to the tax situation. And 
given their involvement in the completion of the documentation, I think its likely that they 
provided quite a detailed level of evaluation. And if that wasnt the case, I think it seems 
reasonable to expect Mr G to have questioned the reference to a tax evaluation in the 
suitability letter, along with any other references in it that were potentially incorrect or which 
he didnt understand. But Ive seen no indication that he did so. 
The suitability letter included clear warnings about the risks involved, including saying that 
investing may involve a substantial risk of all or part of any monies invested. Only applicants 
who can afford the loss of their entire investment should consider investing. I accept there 
wasnt a specific warning regarding the potential for the tax arrangement element to fail and 
be deemed an avoidance scheme by HMRC. But the potential for that type of issue to occur 
was covered in the documentation relating to another similar scheme in which Mr G invested 
around the same time, again with the apparent involvement of his accountants. So, I think it 
seems likely Mr G wouldve been aware of the risk relating to the tax element of the 
arrangement, as well as those of the investment element itself. 
And indeed, that conclusion seems to be supported by the fact that when a previous 
complaint relating to this matter was made to AFS by other representatives of Mr G in 2017 
(at that time specifically concerning the failure of the taxation element,) it was stated that 
Mr G had understood and accepted that the investment in Elysian itself was a high risk one 
and did not complain of that in itself. 
While I accept, as noted, that the fact find was limited, it does appear to be the case that 
Mr G was an experienced business owner, as such likely to be comfortable with considering 
novel ways of potentially improving his tax situation using his company. Clear warnings were 
provided to him by AFS of the high-risk nature of the investment and while I accept that 
doing so doesnt negate the need to ensure the suitability of an investment, on balance I 
dont think a recommendation to commit just under £50,000, which represented less than 
10% of Mr Gs overall assets, was unsuitable. Not when set against the wider context of his 
financial experience and circumstances. On balance, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr G understood the nature of the arrangement and was keen to try to obtain the potential 
benefits involved.
In summary, I think a consideration of the wider circumstances, which reasonably includes 
noting the involvement of Mr Gs accountants, leads me to conclude that it wouldnt be a fair 
and reasonable outcome to find AFS responsible for any losses incurred by Mr G. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman