DRN-3329485
The complaint
Mr C complains that changes Metro Bank PLC has made to its processes mean he can no 
longer access his account or carry out transactions as he doesnt own a mobile phone. He 
also complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt send him hard copy statements when he asked 
for them meaning he wasnt able to monitor his account.
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Metro Bank.
In November 2020 Mr C complained to Metro Bank that he could no longer access his 
account or carry out transactions as it had changed its processes  he said the changes 
meant he needed a mobile phone to verify himself. He was unhappy with this because he 
didnt have a mobile phone. In the meantime, Mr C asked Metro Bank to send him hard copy 
statements so that he could monitor his account and make sure he didnt become the victim 
of fraud.
Metro Bank investigated Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. Metro Bank said that it had 
updated its processes in order to implement strong customer authentication, and it had taken 
the decision to authenticate by sending one-time passcodes to their customers mobile 
numbers. Metro Bank said that it offered another alternative, namely that its customers could 
bind the device they were using for their online banking. In addition, Metro Bank said Mr C 
could use its telephone banking service or its branches.
Mr C was unhappy with Metro Banks response saying that it had admitted it was in breach 
of clear guidelines from the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) on what it expects of 
firms implementing strong customer authentication as Metro Bank had said the only option 
its customers had was to receive one-time passcodes to a mobile phone. He was unhappy 
that Metro Bank still hadnt sent him hard copy statements too. He complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said that they thought Metro Bank 
had offered an alternative  Mr C could bind the device he was using  but that Metro Bank 
should have explained to Mr C how to set this up. In addition, our investigator thought that 
Metro Bank had caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience because it hadnt sent Mr 
C hard copy statements. Our investigator also asked Metro Bank if it was going to 
authenticate online shopping transactions in the same way, as Mr C had contacted them to 
say that Metro Bank was planning on adopting the same system for online shopping, which 
Metro Bank said it was going to. Metro Bank disagreed with our investigators 
recommendations saying that its website explained how to bind a device so there was 
nothing more to explain. Having explored this option further, our investigator said that Metro 
Banks process for binding a device appeared to involve a one-time passcode sent to a 
mobile and that this was not, therefore, a non-mobile alternative. Metro Bank remained 
unhappy with our investigators recommendations  which included paying Mr C £500 in 
compensation  saying that it was not our role to say how it run its business as that was the 
job of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. As Metro Bank disagreed with our 
investigators recommendations, Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has been using the internet and internet banking for over 20 years. He has a laptop 
and uses this to access the internet and internet banking. He doesnt own a mobile phone 
and doesnt want to own a mobile phone.
Mr C complained to Metro Bank in November 2020 that he wasnt able to access his online 
banking because Metro Bank was saying hed need to authenticate using a one-time 
passcode sent to a mobile phone  and he didnt have a mobile phone. Mr C complained 
that this was in breach of clear guidance that the Financial Conduct Authority had issued.
Metro Bank said that it had made changes to its online banking in order to implement new 
regulations that came into effect in September 2019  namely the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) 
to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are 
set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication 
where a payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an 
account information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a 
risk of payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in 
that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element,
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication 
data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The changes that Metro Bank made to its processes  and its apparent 
reliance on mobile phones according to Mr C as a way of authenticating  is at the heart of 
this complaint.
Metro Banks approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Metro Bank said in response to Mr Cs complaint that it had decided to use one-time 
passcodes sent to their customers mobile phones in order to authenticate customers who 
wanted to log into their online banking. Metro Bank said that an alternative option was when 
it was comfortable that a login was occurring from a trusted device or browser linked to a 
genuine person. Metro Bank said that it had no plans at that stage to offer any other 
alternatives. Metro Bank added that it offered telephone banking via its contact centre, 
noting that Mr C had recently used that service. And that its stores were an option too. Mr C 
said that this response amount to an admission that Metro Bank had breached clear 
guidance from the FCA as Metro Bank had said it had no plans to offer any alternatives 
other than to one-time passcodes sent to their customers mobile phones. I dont entirely 
agree  although I will say that Im satisfied that in order to trust a device Mr C would have 
to be able to receive a one-time passcode. But it probably helps to say more once Ive 
explained what the FCA has said on strong customer authentication.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary 
for a PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer 
authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all 
payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and 
payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must 
provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should Metro Bank have done more for Mr C when he originally complained?
Mr C has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not Metro 
Bank should have done more when Mr C originally complained and whether or not its 
actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment 
Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  
that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Metro Bank could and should have done 
more here. 
Putting things right
Following my involvement, Metro Bank agreed to pay the £500 in compensation that our 
investigator had recommended. In addition, it let us know that it is rolling out a one-time 
passcode to landline option. I consider those steps to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC has offered to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr C £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman