DRN-1581097
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Street (UK ) C.I.C failing to issue a default notice on his loan 
account before marking it as in default. He says the default has prevented him from raising 
finance to secure the future of his business.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr M took out an interest-free business start-up loan with Street UK.
Mr M made the contractual repayments of around £232 for two months. However, in June 
2018 he missed a payment. In July 2018 he spoke to Street UK and it agreed to accept a 
token repayment of £1 per month for six months until 28 December 2018. This arrangement 
was then extended for a further six months.
During this time Mr M was trying to raise more funds to finance his business. In May 2019 he 
applied for some loans but he was told the applications were declined due to his credit 
history.
In June 2019, during a call with Street UK, Mr M found out a default had been registered on 
his credit file in December 2018. Mr M said hed had no notice of this at the time.
Street UK accepted it hadnt sent Mr M a default notice when it should have. In June 2019 it 
removed the default and told Mr M he should reduce his arrears to under six months and 
maintain his contractual repayments from then on to avoid the default being registered 
again. But this didnt resolve things for Mr M so he brought his complaint to us.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, because they thought Street UK had fairly 
resolved the issue by temporarily removing the default. Mr M didnt agree, and replied to say, 
in summary:
- Street UK has breached the FCAs guidelines by not issuing the correct paperwork 
before registering the default and has treated him unfairly by asking him to repay an 
unreasonable amount to prevent another default being registered;
- Street UK shouldnt have registered a default while he was in a repayment arrangement 
with it and had told him it wouldnt;
- The default has led to him being declined for credit to help finance his business; and 
- Street UK refused to remove adverse information from his credit file during our 
investigation which has impacted on his finances.
Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mr M, so let me explain why.
A lender can register a default when an account is more than three months in arrears, as 
long as its acted fairly. But it should give notice it intends to register a default. Street UK has 
accepted it should have issued a default notice to Mr M before it registered the default. It 
says it would usually send a notice when an account is three months in arrears, which was 
around September 2018 in Mr Ms case. It registered the default at the end of December 
2018 when the account was six months in arrears.
 
Its clear Street UKs not acted fairly by not giving Mr M notice of the default. And in order to 
put things right I need to consider what position Mr M would have been in if Street UK had 
given Mr M the correct notice. If a default notice had been sent in September 2018 it would 
have given Mr M time to bring his account up to date before the default was registered.
From what Mr M has said and provided about his financial circumstances at the time I think 
its unlikely he would have been able to bring his account up to date if hed received a default 
notice in September 2018. At the time hed told Street UK he was receiving job seekers 
allowance and I can see that shortly after the default was registered he said he could still 
only afford to pay £1 per month. So, Im not persuaded that Mr Ms financial position would 
be any different if Street UK had sent the default notice. I think the default would have been 
registered anyway.
And even if Mr M had been able to avoid the default being registered if hed received the 
notice at the right time, I dont think it would have made a significant difference to his overall 
financial position. Mr M says the default led directly to him being declined for credit to help 
raise finance for his business around May 2019, and hes sent us some evidence that his 
applications were declined due to his credit history. Hes said he was getting his other 
accounts in order before making new applications, but he didnt know about the default on 
the Street UK account in order to rectify it.
From the screenshots Mr Ms sent us of his credit report it looks like hed started to pay 
some of his monthly repayments again in early 2019, so I think he did intend to get his 
finances more in order before the new applications. But I can see that there were also 
missed payments showing on his accounts at that time. I think most lenders would take 
account of a history of missed payments when deciding whether to accept an application for 
credit, even if some payments had been made more recently.
And while Mr M may not have been aware of the default on his loan with Street UK when he 
applied for credit in May 2019, he would have been aware that he was significantly behind 
with his monthly payments. But he didnt make any payments to bring his loan with Street 
UK up to date at the time.
Taking everything into account, I dont think I can conclude Mr Ms loan applications were 
rejected solely because of the default on his Street UK loan.
Mr M also says he thinks the default shouldnt have been registered at all, because he had a 
repayment arrangement of £1 per month with Street UK. 
I dont think Street UK was unreasonable in registering the default in December 2018 when 
the account was six months in arrears  aside from not giving the proper notice - even 
though it had been accepting token repayments up to this point. I say this because the arrears would never have been cleared at this repayment level, so there was little prospect 
of the account being brought up to date. And as Ive explained, Mr M wasnt in a position to 
repay the arrears when the repayment arrangement period ended. I dont think Street UK 
should have delayed registering the default in these circumstances, as it would then have 
stayed on Mr Ms credit history for longer than it needed to. 
Its also clear from Street UKs emails to Mr M at the time it agreed to accept token 
repayments that information about Mr Ms arrears would still be registered on his credit file, 
and that a default notice may still be sent out. So, I dont think Street UK led Mr M to believe 
that adverse information wouldnt be recorded because of the £1 per month repayment 
arrangement.
As Mr Ms pointed out, a lender shouldnt decline a reasonable proposal to repay a debt. But 
I dont think Street UKs done this. Mr Ms proposal of £1 per month would never repay the 
debt, but Street UK accepted it anyway. I cant see that Mr Ms made any other proposal to 
Street UK to repay the debt in a reasonable time.
By temporarily removing the default and giving Mr M an opportunity to reduce his arrears to 
avoid a default, I think Street UK has acted fairly to resolve things. I can see that at the time 
Mr M complained it asked him to repay around £1,600 to reduce the arrears to less than six 
months, and then maintain the contractual monthly payment. Unless Mr M significantly 
reduces the arrears and maintains his repayments, then its not inaccurate for the account to 
be marked as in default on his credit file.
 
I note that the default has not been reapplied during our investigation, although Street UK 
says it has reported that the account is more than six months in arrears and has been so 
since December 2018. Mr M hasnt been able to show us his credit report for this account, 
but I see no reason to think it doesnt show what Street UK says its reported.
Mr M says that hes not able to raise finance for his business because of the negative entries 
on his credit file made by Street UK, but I dont think Street UK should have amended or 
removed this information during our investigation. Its correct to say Mr M is over six months 
behind with his repayments. The only aspect of Mr Ms credit history that was reasonably in 
dispute was the default, and Street UK removed this before the complaint was brought to us. 
While I appreciate that this information may have affected Mr Ms credit applications 
adversely, I havent seen anything to show its not an accurate reflection of the position of his 
account with Street UK. 
Overall, I dont think Street UK has treated Mr M unfairly. I think it provided a fair resolution 
to its mistake by temporarily removing the default to give Mr M a chance to repay some of 
the arrears. I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position, but it would not be fair to ask Street UK to 
remove accurate information from his credit file. So Im not going to ask it to do anything 
else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Helen SutcliffeOmbudsman