DRN-1157045
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline her computer claim 
under her mobile and gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W made a claim that Amtrust said didnt meet the policy definition. Amtrust said Miss W 
hadnt provided proof of the reason for a breakdown. It said without this it wouldnt 
reconsider her claim. It said there had been no proof of any internal defect even though it 
accepted there was a problem with the device. Unhappy with this Miss W brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Miss W had provided Amtrust with 2 expert 
reports. He said the second report confirmed the problem was with the display. It also made 
it clear that Miss W hadnt misused the computer. Our investigator said Miss W had provided 
sufficient evidence to show there was a fault and that it needed fixing to work properly. As 
the display wasnt working, he accepted this had to be repaired. He noted that once Miss W 
did have the work carried out it started to work normally again, and this showed it was clearly 
suffering from a defect.
He said Amtrust should pay the expert report costs for repair of £469.20 minus the policy 
excess of £75 leaving a final amount to pay of £394.20.
Amtrust didnt accept this and asked for Miss Ws complaint to be passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The part of the policy wording Amtrust has focussed on is:
Breakdown 
Means the actual breaking or burning out of any part of your gadget whilst in ordinary use 
arising from internal electronic, electrical or mechanical defects in the gadget, causing 
sudden stoppage of the function thereof and necessitating repair before it can resume 
normal operation.
In correspondence Amtrust has followed this up by stating the device needs to have stopped 
but there was not stoppage. It also accepted the screen may have had a malfunction, but it 
hadnt stopped it from functioning. Amtrust went on to say, lines on the screen may well be 
due to an internal defect. And There may be a manufacturing fault, but unless this has led 
to a sudden stoppage requiring a repair before normal functioning resumes then I do not see 
that the claim has been proved.
Miss W went on to say that it did stop and didnt restart. She said she was unable to use it 
for two months but since repair it has worked perfectly ever since.
So, theres an acceptance that the computer did have a problem. But Amtrust decided that 
the policy wording didnt apply to Miss Ws claim. It accepted there might be a manufacturing 
fault and there was a possibility of some internal defect but said that didnt mean it should 
pay the claim. I dont think thats fair or reasonable.
 
The breakdown section of policy wording refers to if theres a defect, Amtrust accepts that 
there may well be a defect, so I think that Amtrust did have evidence pointing this out.
The wording refers to stopping of function and its clear there was a problem with the display 
screen  the normal function wasnt working it had stopped  as Amtrust refer to in their 
policy. I think theres clearly a loss of normal function.
And the wording section concludes with the need for repair to return it to normal function 
which in the end Miss W had to pay for herself. This got the computer operating back at 
normal function. The expert report Miss W provided did confirm that the display needed to be 
replaced as it wasnt performing. So, in line with the policy it wasnt working normally but 
when the display was replaced it returned to normal function as the problem was fixed.
All of this is in line with the wording referring to whilst in ordinary use and the expert report 
confirmed there was no misuse by Miss W.
I think this situation is exactly what Miss W bought the policy for. Miss W reasonably 
expected the policy to pay out for such repairs when its accepted that the item was suffering 
a defect/malfunction and wasnt operating normally. She did get the repair done herself by 
the experts and now the computer is back functioning as it should. So, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to pay for Miss Ws claim costs of £394.20.
Putting things right
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to pay for Miss Ws claim costs of £394.20.
My final decision
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
pay Miss W £394.20 for her claim costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman