DRN-1992894
The complaint
Mrs L, Mr L and Mr L1 complain that Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ) (Handelsbanken) 
led them to believe that it would give them a development loan once they obtained planning 
permission for a property they wanted to extend. But it later wouldnt agree to lend them the 
amount they wanted.
Mrs L, Mr L and Mr L say that their experience of dealing with Handelsbanken deteriorated 
when their relationship manager changed. They say that Handelsbanken failed to give them 
advice that was clear, fair and not misleading  and was inconsistent. That has resulted in 
them suffering significant losses personally and professionally.
What happened
In 2013, Handelsbanken gave Mr L1 mortgage advice. It recommended that he should take 
out a mortgage of £170,000 over a term of 25 years. Mr and Mrs L gave a personal 
guarantee for the borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1s representatives say that they set out Mr L1s plans to extend the 
property subject to planning permission. They say that is reflected in Handelsbankens 
records, including the fact find and the valuation report, which includes the cost of the 
proposed work to the property. The representatives say that Handelsbankens agreement 
and willingness to approve the mortgage following the development appraisal and valuation 
shows that it was content with the development costs on completion of the extension.
In 2015, when they had obtained planning permission, Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1 were 
shocked to find out that Handelsbanken wasnt prepared to lend them the money they 
needed to complete the extension. 
In 2016, following an assessment of Mr L1s income and expenditure and the proposed 
development costs, Handelsbanken said to would be prepared to give Mr L1 a mortgage of 
£35,000 (reduced from its original offer of £40,000). Mr L1 didnt accept that offer. In 2018, 
Mr L1 borrowed £75,000 from Handelsbanken.
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1 say that they would not have bought the property without the 
indications given by Handelsbanken in 2013 that the money to fund the extension would be 
available to them. They say that Handelsbanken made them feel [it was] happy to fund the 
extension by way of development loan and that the extension was supported by the 
mortgage offer and valuation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt doubt that 
Handelsbanken knew that Mr L1 would be developing the property in the future. But other 
than further borrowing of £13,000, Handelsbanken didnt say that it would be giving Mr L1 a 
construction loan. The investigator said the mortgage Handelsbanken recommended wasnt 
unsuitable for Mr L1s stated needs. And she wouldnt expect a lender to discuss changes in 
regulations with a potential borrower.
In respect of the 2016 application, the investigator didnt think that Handelsbankens 
affordability assessment and offer of lending was unfair.
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1s representative didnt accept what the investigator said. They made 
a number of points, including:
The investigator hadnt mentioned the valuation report. The report references the 
redevelopment of the property and the estimated cost of the extension at £100,000. It is 
unclear why Handelsbanken would have given those specific instructions had the 
development loan not been discussed. The report was 29 pages long  that is much 
longer than a standard mortgage valuation report.
All the loan-to-value ratios would have presented an acceptable level of risk to 
Handelsbanken  it had ample security under all scenarios. Therefore there was no need 
to instruct the valuer to consider current value and future value after development.
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1 maintain that the proposed development was discussed in detail 
in its meeting with Handelsbanken. They placed a great deal of trust in their relationship 
manager at that time. 
It has been acknowledged that frequent references to the plans to develop the property 
were made to Handelsbanken. And it gave verbal assurances about the loan.
Mr L and Mrs L and Mr L1 consider that Handelsbanken has documents which make 
explicit reference to a development loan  and in particular a credit application for a 
commercial mortgage. Handelsbankens refusal to provide a copy of the application 
strengthens their belief they are correct.
The £10-13,000 additional borrowing was actually for refurbishment of the property  not 
development. This was discussed but not needed. And this point does not address Mr 
and Mrs L and Mr L1s concerns about the lack of records. This has resulted in an 
inaccurate portrayal of the meeting in June 2013. 
On balance, it was more likely than not that a development loan had been discussed and 
that it would be forthcoming once planning permission had been obtained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
What was agreed?
The fact find, dated 22 July 2013 and signed by Mr L1, states The intention is to purchase 
the property, develop itsubject to achieving planning permission I intend to begin work in 
Spring 2014 with a view to complete by September 2014. Property is to be marketed for sale 
from September 2017The budget for the work is £40,000 which is lower than it would 
normally bethe budget would normally be in the region of £100,000.
Under the heading additional information it says, as is relevant property size is to be 
increased, end value estimated to be £350,000, valuer to confirm, initial loan to value will be 
77%, assuming the end value is confirmed the loan-to-value will be 47%. Modest increase of £13,000 may be sought which will increase the facility to £176,000 against £350,000 = 
50.3%
Handelsbanken issued a key facts illustration for a mortgage of £163,000. The mortgage 
offer was for £170,000.
Mr and Mrs L say that they arranged a commercial mortgage with Handelsbanken to assist 
Mr L1 with the purchase. During discussions for that they told Handelsbanken that the 
property Mr L1 wanted to buy needed lots of work and in order to carry out that work a 
development loan would be required once planning permission had been approved.
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1 say that when Mr L1 was applying for the mortgage in 2013, 
Handelsbanken was told about their plans. And it was clear that Handelsbanken took them 
into account as the valuer was instructed to give an opinion on the value of the property after 
it had been extended.
Both sides accept that Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1 told Handelsbanken about the plans to 
extend the property. But I consider it less likely, on balance, that Handelsbanken gave a firm 
commitment to lend Mr L1 the money to do that at a future date. I say that for a number of 
reasons:
The fact find was completed at the time in question. It was signed by Mr L1, who 
confirmed that Handelsbanken could rely on the information [he] had given. He had the 
opportunity to query what was written or if there were significant omissions. On balance, 
I consider the fact find more likely than not to be a true reflection of what was discussed 
at that time.
The fact find contains no reference to Handelsbanken lending Mr L1 a further £100,000  
or any amount other than potentially an additional £13,000. 
The additional information on the fact find suggests that Handelsbankens agreement to 
lend was based on an initial loan-to-value of 77%, reducing to 47/53% once the 
extension was completed. If Mr L1 borrowed an additional £100,000 the loan-to-value 
would have been 75/79% against the end value. If future borrowing had been discussed 
and agreed I would expect that to have been reflected in the fact find. 
There is no illustration or other paperwork to show that Handelsbanken had agreed to 
any future borrowing. Nor is there anything to show that it would look favourably upon 
any future application. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1s understanding of what was discussed and agreed. It 
is clear that Mr L1s plans were discussed. But if it was agreed that Handelsbanken would 
definitely fund the future borrowing and that Mr L1 was relying on this, then I might have 
expected that to be referred to in the paperwork. 
In any event, on balance of probabilities, I consider it less likely that Handelsbanken gave Mr 
and Mrs L and Mr L1 an undertaking to lend money in future. I also consider it less likely that 
Handelsbanken understood that Mr L1 was relying on it to fund the work he had planned. 
I dont consider the valuation report supports that future borrowing was agreed. It was 
reasonable for Handelsbanken to understand what the value of the property would be after 
the proposed work had been carried out. It doesnt follow that it had agreed to fund that 
work. And while the report says the cost of the work would be £100,000, the fact find reflects 
that Mr L1 said he could complete the work for £40,000. Suitability
Handelsbanken was giving Mr L1 mortgage advice. It was required to consider his needs 
and circumstances and recommend a mortgage that was suitable for him. There is no 
dispute that the mortgage met Mr L1s basic requirements  it was a repayment mortgage 
that was affordable. 
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1s representatives point is that Handelsbanken was aware that Mr 
L1 would need to borrow more money in the near future and that he planned to borrow it 
from Handelsbanken. It ought to have known about the changes in regulation and taken that 
into account in its advice. If it had done so, it couldnt have recommended this mortgage to 
Mr L1. It was also obliged to give clear, fair and not misleading to Mr L1 and that should 
have included an explanation that the regulations were changing, and affordability 
requirements were to become more stringent. They say if Handelsbanken had given such an 
explanation, Mr L1 would not have proceeded with the application.
The difficulty I have is that although Ive found while Handelsbanken was aware of Mr L1s 
plans for the property it was less likely that Handelsbanken agreed to fund the extension or 
knew that Mr L1 was relying on it to finance the work he had planned. So I dont consider 
this was something that Handelsbanken was required to take into account in its advice.
Handelsbanken had a duty to give Mr L1 information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Usually lenders wouldnt be able to guarantee that it would definitely agree borrowing in 
future. It could only do that if it completed a full application, underwriting and issued a written 
agreement or offer  but that is difficult when it doesnt know what borrowers circumstances 
might be.
At best, Handelsbanken could have set out that while it couldnt see any reason why the 
proposed borrowing would be unacceptable as things stood, any application would be 
subject to Mr L1s income and circumstances at the time and that both its appetite for 
lending and mortgage regulation might change. It seems unlikely that would have deterred 
Mr L1 from proceeding. But as Ive found, on balance, that Handelsbanken didnt know that 
Mr L1 was relying on it to fund the work he had planned I dont consider it was unreasonable 
for it not to have given such an explanation. 
2016 application
It is up to Handelsbanken to decide who it will lend to and how much it will lend. I can 
consider if it has exercised its discretion fairy and reasonably. Looking at what happened, I 
consider it was reasonable for Handelsbanken to make the decision it did about how much it 
was prepared to lend Mr L1. I am satisfied that it was reasonable for Handelsbanken to carry 
out an affordability assessment in line with the rules that applied at the time in question.
I note that the affordability assessment undertaken in 2016 for Mr L1 showed a disposable 
income of £478  compared with £1,580 in 2013. Based on the information available to it 
was reasonable for it to say the maximum it would lend him was £35,000. It is difficult to see 
how Handelsbanken could reasonably have agreed an additional loan of £110,000, bearing 
in mind its obligation to carry out an interest rate stress test. 
Overall, I dont consider Handelsbanken acted unfairly or unreasonably in respect of the 
2016 application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L and 
Mr L1 to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman