DRN-4194403
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from Nationwide Building
Society, including that they charged interest on his accounts after hed made them aware
that he was experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr M had a current account and a credit account with Nationwide. In 2020, Mr M contacted
Nationwide and explained that he was experiencing financial difficulty and would struggle to
make the payments required on his Nationwide accounts. At that time, Mr Ms current
account had an overdraft limit of £1,000, while his credit account had a credit limit of £7,000
 both of which Mr M was often close to exceeding.
Mr M wanted Nationwide to stop charging interest on his accounts, given his situation. But
Nationwide explained this wouldnt be something they could consider until Mr M completed a
form detailing his monthly income and expenditure so that they had a better understand of
his financial position. However, despite Mr M chasing Nationwide about the matter, he never
received an income and expenditure form from them which he could complete and return.
Mr M was also unhappy that Nationwide continued to chase him for monthly payments on
his accounts, despite him informing them of his financial difficulty. When Mr M spoke with
Nationwide about this, he was told that he would be given one months breathing space,
which Mr M believed meant that no payments would be taken that month. But Nationwide did
then take a payment by direct debit for his credit account. Mr M wasnt happy about this, or
that Nationwide didnt then reimburse the payment to him as quickly as theyd promised to.
So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mr M and explained that the breathing space only meant that Mr M
wouldnt be contacted by Nationwide during that month and didnt mean that payments due
on his accounts wouldnt be applied for. Nationwide also didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly
by applying interest to Mr Ms accounts in line with the terms of the accounts as they had.
However, Nationwide did acknowledge that they didnt send an income and expenditure form
or reimburse the taken direct debit payment back to Mr M as quickly as they should have
done, and they apologised to Mr M for this and made a payment of £75 to him as
compensation for any trouble or upset that he may have incurred. Mr M wasnt satisfied with
Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Nationwide hadnt acted
unfairly by charging the interest to Mr Ms accounts or by taking the direct debit payment as
they had. But they did feel that by failing to return the taken direct debit to Mr M or provide
an income and expenditure form to Mr M in the timeframes theyd promised, Nationwide had
caused Mr M a degree of upset and inconvenience that their payment of £75 didnt fairly
compensate him for.
Because of this, our investigator recommended that Nationwide should make a further
payment of £225 to Mr M, taking the total amount of compensation to £300, which they felt
did provide fair compensation to Mr M for what had happened. Mr M remained dissatisfied,
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 May 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit 
here to declare that Nationwide have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the circumstances and 
factors of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr M has provided several detailed submissions to this service 
regarding his complaint. Id like to thank Mr M for these submissions, and I hope he 
doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-
line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service.
This means that if Mr M notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr M and Nationwide. 
Rather, it should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it 
necessary to address it directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
One of Mr Ms complaints is that Nationwide wouldnt stop charging interest on his 
accounts even after hed explained to them that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. But it isnt always the case that a credit provider such as Nationwide would 
be expected to stop charging interest on an account under such circumstances.
A credit agreement  such as an agreed overdraft or a credit account  includes that 
interest will be charged on any credit balance. And while a credit provider such as 
Nationwide can choose to stop charging interest on an account for a short period if its 
account holder is experiencing financial difficulty, this would generally only be when 
the financial difficulty which the account holder is experiencing is projected to be 
short lived  such that the account holder will be able to recover their financial 
position and resume normal payments on the account in a timely manner. 
Importantly, it isnt the case that a credit provider would be expected to stop charging 
interest on an account indefinitely because its account holder can no longer afford 
the payments required on that account.
In this instance, having considered Mr Ms personal and financial circumstances as 
hes explained them, it doesnt seem that Mr M would, in all likelihood, have been 
able to recover his financial position in a short amount of time. Instead, I feel its more 
likely, given the severity of Mr Ms financial difficulties, that he wouldnt have been 
able to have made the payments required on his Nationwide accounts for some time. And so, Im not convinced that Nationwide would or reasonably should have acted to 
stop charging interest on Mr Ms accounts  even if theyd sent an income and 
expenditure form to Mr M in a timely manner and received the completed form back 
from him.
Of course, in the circumstances I describe  where an account holder can no longer 
afford to make the payments towards their account and where a temporary stopping 
of interest isnt deemed to be appropriate  this means that its highly likely that the 
account holders accounts will fall into arrears.
But it isnt the case that the account holder is expected to continue to fall further into 
arrears indefinitely. Instead, after an account had been in a position of arrears for 
some time  during which time the account holder still has the opportunity to recover 
the position of the account, if possible  its expected that the credit provider would 
begin the process of defaulting the account. And the act of defaulting an account 
includes that no further interest will accrue on that account, so that the account 
holder doesnt fall any further into debt after the point of default. And this is what 
Nationwide did in this instance.
I realise that Mr M would have preferred to have not had his accounts defaulted by
Nationwide. But ultimately, Mr M couldnt meet the payments that were contractually
required of him on his accounts. And so, it seems fair to me that his accounts would 
be defaulted. And, to reiterate what I explained above, it isnt the case that a credit 
provider is expected to indefinitely stop charging interest on a credit balance if an 
account holder informs them that they can no longer afford to make the payments 
required on the account.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Nationwide havent acted unfairly towards 
Mr M by continuing to charge interest on his account as they did. And I also dont feel 
that Mr M incurred any different outcome to that which he likely would and should 
have incurred as a result of Nationwide not providing an income and expenditure 
form to him when they first should have done.
Additionally, Ive reviewed the breathing space letter than Nationwide provided to Mr 
M, and Im satisfied that there isnt anything within that letter which states that 
Nationwide wont continue to apply for the monthly payments that would become due 
on the credit account. Indeed, the letter specifically states: During the period of 
breathing space interest and charges will continue to be applied to your account, 
and: We need to let Credit Reference Agencies know if you miss a payment, which 
I feel confirms that payments would still be applied for during the breathing space 
period.
Mr M is also unhappy that Nationwide, having taken a payment which he wasnt 
expecting to be taken during the breathing space period, didnt then reimburse that 
taken payment to him as quickly as they promised that they would.
Nationwide have accepted that they didnt begin the process to return the payment to 
Mr Ms account when they first should have done, and theyve apologised to Mr M for 
this and made a payment to him of £75 as compensation for any trouble and upset 
that Mr M may have incurred. This seems reasonable to me, and while I can 
appreciate that Mr M found himself in a difficult financial position because he wasnt 
expecting the payment to be taken, I dont think that Nationwide acted unfairly by 
taking the payment  as explained above  and I feel that £75 is a fair amount of 
compensation for the delay in the correctly taken payment being reimbursed back to 
Mr M at his request.Finally, Ive considered whether Nationwide could have better and more clearly
communicated with Mr M, specifically about the nature of the breathing space hold 
and the options that may and may not have been available to him regarding his 
request for financial assistance.
Unfortunately, matters are complicated here by several recorded phone calls which 
Ive listened to in which Mr M is rude and aggressive towards Nationwides staff and 
which led to Nationwide making the decision to no longer offer banking services to Mr 
M and to close his accounts  a decision Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable 
for Nationwide to make. Considering these calls, Im not convinced that Nationwide 
would have been able to communicate with Mr M more effectively had they 
attempted to do so, given that its unlikely Mr M would have been happy with what 
Nationwide may have attempted to tell him.
In summary, Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt act unfairly in continuing to charge 
interest on Mr Ms account as they did, and that Mr M hasnt likely incurred any 
detriment or different outcome as a result of his not receiving an income and 
expenditure form from Nationwide when he should have done.
Im also satisfied that Nationwide didnt act unfairly towards Mr M by taking the direct 
debit payment about which Mr M complained and didnt indicate to Mr M that they 
wouldnt take that payment. Finally, I feel that the apology and the £75 that 
Nationwide have paid to Mr M for not processing the return of the taken payment as 
quickly as they should have done already represents a fair resolution to that aspect 
of Mr Ms complaint.
All of which means that I feel that Nationwide have already issued a fair response to 
Mr Ms complaint, and so my provisional decision here will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action.
Mr M has expressed his disagreement with my provisional decision letter. However, I dont 
feel that Mr M has provided any new information that I havent already considered or 
addressed in my provisional decision. As such, I continue to feel that the findings and 
outcome I outlined in my provisional decision is a fair resolution to this complaint.
It therefore follows that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman