DRN-4472688
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted QIC to make a claim for a water leak at his home that caused extensive 
damage. QIC accepted the claim. Mr M later complained because of how the alternative 
accommodation was dealt with and that QIC told him he had to move back into the property 
despite it still being uninhabitable.
When QIC replied to the complaint, it said it initially agreed to alternative accommodation 
because there was no heating or electricity at the property. Once this was restored, it agreed 
to extend the alternative accommodation again because Mr M said his wife had asthma and 
allergies and couldnt return to the property. It made the property safe, but then had to 
complete asbestos tests. So, it extended the alternative accommodation again to allow for 
the results to be received. When the tests came back negative, the property was habitable 
from that point. It said Mr M had cooking and bathing facilities and mitigation work had been 
undertaken to make the property safe. It said no further alternative accommodation was then 
required.
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said after 
Mr M was told he could return to the property, there were still issues with mould at the 
property, exposed ceilings and no light in the kitchen. It was clear the property wasnt 
habitable and Mr Ms wife also had a significant health issue. She said alternative 
accommodation should have been extended until the works were completed. She said a 
disturbance allowance should be paid from 11 March 2023 to 7 June 2023 and interest paid 
on that amount. Mr M also had to chase for updates on the claim on multiple occasions and 
QIC wasnt proactive in handling the claim. She said QIC should pay £500 compensation for 
the issues with the claim overall.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M and his wife moved to alternative accommodation shortly after the damage was found. 
QIC paid for alternative accommodation for about three months, along with a disturbance 
allowance. During that time, the property was dried, the electrics restored and asbestos 
testing completed. Once this work was complete, QIC said it would no longer pay for 
alternative accommodation. 
While Mr M was in alternative accommodation, he contacted QIC on a number of occasions 
to find out whether it would be extended. Mr M was told on a few occasions that a specific 
person would contact him, but continued to have to chase for a response. Mr M was later 
told that a request for the alternative accommodation had been submitted. However, the next 
day he was told the request had been rejected as there wasnt evidence to support it. The 
request was considered again a few days later and Mr M was told the property was 
habitable, so the alternative accommodation wouldnt be extended. Mr M explained to QIC 
the impact it was having on him to have to keep chasing for a response when he knew the 
accommodation was due to come to an end. He still hadnt received a response less than a 
week before it was due to come to an end, so kept chasing.
Im aware Mr M was also asked to move to a different, cheaper, property while he was in 
alternative accommodation. I dont necessarily think it was unreasonable for QIC to keep the 
cost of the accommodation under review. Im also aware that Mr M was able to negotiate a 
cheaper rate with the accommodation provider and remained at the property, although I 
dont doubt this caused him some inconvenience to do so.
QIC told this service that one of the reasons it had paid for alternative accommodation was 
because the damp was affecting Mr Ms wifes health. It said exposed ceilings didnt make a 
property uninhabitable. Based on what Ive seen, Mr M had raised concerns about his wifes 
health because of the issue with the ceilings, which had extensive damage and were 
exposed. He told QIC the level of dust was a particular problem.
Ive also looked at QICs survey. This explained why it was assessed that alternative 
accommodation was required. It said this was because several ceilings being removed 
including bathroom, floor tiles in kitchen and worktops. It said alternative accommodation 
would be required for four weeks. So, I think this suggested that from early in the claim it 
was assessed that alternative accommodation needed and would continue to be needed 
while the work was carried out. Ive also seen photos of the repair work later carried out and 
this showed a lot of disruption, mess and debris from the work. So, I think at the time QIC 
responded to the complaint it was known that the work was likely to be very disruptive and 
that alternative accommodation should be considered. Im aware the claim was cash settled, 
but I would still have expected QIC to properly consider whether the property could be lived 
in while the work was carried out. 
QIC told this service that issues such as exposed ceilings, some mould and light fixtures not 
working didnt make a property uninhabitable. It said temporary lights could be used, the 
property wasnt damp and the mould wasnt significant. I think the issues with the ceiling, in 
particular, meant the property was likely to be uninhabitable. Mr M had explained his wifes 
health issues and how these were impacted by the ceiling. The work to repair the ceiling was 
also assessed as likely to require Mr M to move to alternative accommodation and looking at 
photos, this seemed to be the case. Im also aware Mr M said that when QIC stopped paying 
for the alternative accommodation, he and his wife moved to his parents house where they 
had to sleep on the sofa. He has said it also affected his ability to work. 
While Mr M was in alternative accommodation QIC paid a disturbance allowance. So, I think 
it should pay this for the remaining period of the claim after the alternative accommodation 
came to an end. For the period 11 March 2023 to 7 June 2023, QIC should pay the 
disturbance allowance at the rate it had previously been paying it to Mr M. It should also pay 
interest on that amount because he lost use of the money.
I also think QIC should pay some compensation. I think Mr M explained why the ceiling didnt 
make his home habitable. QICs survey also assessed that alternative accommodation was 
required, including because of the ceilings, and I can see the repairs to the ceiling were 
extensive and disruptive. Mr M was expected to remain in his home despite the health issues raised and the level of disruption while the work was carried out. I think this affected 
Mr M over a prolonged period and caused him distress and anxiety. So, I think QIC should 
pay Mr M £500 to reflect the impact on him of having to live in the property when QIC 
decided the alternative accommodation should end.
Putting things right
QIC should pay Mr M disturbance allowance for the period 11 March 2023 to 7 June 2023 
and pay interest on that amount. It should also pay £500 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC 
Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mr M disturbance allowance, at the rate it previously paid, for the period 11 March 
2023 to 7 June 2023.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 7 June 2023 to the date on which it makes 
the payment.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman