DRN-4101527
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of the partners of C, a partnership, about C being overcharged 
commission by Marsh Ltd trading as Marsh Commercial (Marsh Ltd) when renewing its 
commercial property insurance.  
The complaint was referred by Mr A, on behalf of C. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to 
any actions taken, or comments made, by any of the partners as Mr A throughout the 
decision. 
What happened
Mr A says C has taken out insurance for a commercial building owned by C from 2003 to 
2021, with Marsh Ltd acting as broker. Mr A says, initially Marsh Ltd claimed their 
commission was between 10-12% of the insurance premium charged by the insurer. Mr A 
says, in 2015, during a meeting with a representative from Marsh Ltd, they explained their 
commission would now be 14%. Mr A says, it then came to light in 2021 that Marsh Ltds 
commission was significantly higher than what hed been told - and was in the region of 
40%. So, C complained.  
Marsh Ltd responded and explained they sent C renewal terms in 2015, and this was agreed 
by C. They noted C had since been sent details of the commission paid and understand     
Mr A is concerned the commission charged by Marsh Ltd was higher than the 14% he was 
informed about during the meeting in 2015. Marsh Ltd said theres no minutes for the 
meeting in 2015 so theyve been unable to establish what was discussed. Marsh Ltd said, 
they accept though that Mr A recalls being told they earned 14% commission. They said the 
14% commission amount is incorrect and they apologised Mr A was given inaccurate 
information. Marsh Ltd explained they note C has since been provided with their commission 
earnings  and from 2021 a broker fee applied rather than commission. 
Our investigator looked into things for C. She thought Marsh Ltd hadnt treated C unfairly in 
charging the level of commission they did, and there was no evidence theyd agreed to 
charge 14% commission. C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand the partners at C will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about commission charges isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a commission level for the services they 
offer. This is a commercial judgement and will generally be agreed between a broker and the 
insurer. But we can look to see whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is 
there anything which demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we 
think a consumer has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address 
this unfairness.
The first point Ive considered is what Marsh Ltd were required to do when selling the policy. 
Ive looked at renewal quotation reports provided by Marsh Ltd to C in advance of the 
renewal date  and Ive taken the 2015 report as an example. This sets out a capacity and 
services section and says Marsh Ltd will act as Cs agent in sourcing a suitable policy and 
placing the insurance. The policy was sold on an advised basis  that means Marsh Ltd are 
recommending (or advising) that C buy a particular policy. The report includes a Statement 
of demands and needs  together with a recommendation from Marsh Ltd. 
Looking at the report, Ive matched this to the corresponding policy schedule, and Im 
satisfied the policy covers the listed demands and needs. Marsh Ltd have also set out their 
reasons for recommending the particular insurer. The report says C has been with this 
insurer since 2003 and theres a strong willingness to retain C with no rates increase being 
implemented. Marsh Ltd say, wherever possible, they believe that maintaining a relationship 
with an insurer is important and should benefit C in the long term. The report also sets out 
how Marsh Ltd made their selection, and says, they decided to approach one insurer for this 
specific type of insurance  but C is able to ask them for a list of insurers they use. Taking 
this into account, I think Marsh Ltd have acted in line with the requirements and agreements 
set out in the report. 
Turning now to the specific issue in relation to the commission charged. My starting point is 
Marsh Ltds terms of business agreement, this sets out their contractual relationship with C. 
Under a section headed Our remuneration and other income it says, We are usually 
remunerated by commission from your insurer(s) for our insurance broking services and 
You are entitled, at any time, to request information regarding any commission which we 
may have received as a result of placing your insurance business. Theres no dispute here 
between the parties around Marsh Ltd charging commission  instead the dispute relates to 
the amount theyve charged, and more specifically, this being more than what Mr A says he 
was led to believe.  
Ive started by considering whether there was a requirement for Marsh Ltd to disclose the 
details of their commission. I note Mr A says C was only given disclosure of Marsh Ltds 
commission in 2021 after a complaint was raised. Mr A says this is unfair as brokers and 
insurers are required to be more transparent regarding their charges. The Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) covers commission disclosure for commercial 
customers. ICOBS 4.4.1 R sets out the commission disclosure rule and says, An insurance 
intermediary must, on a commercial customers request, promptly disclose the commission 
that it and any associate receives in connection with a policy. So, this doesnt require a 
broker to disclose the amount of commission unless theyre asked. 
Marsh Ltd confirm they have no evidence C requested any details of their commission in 
2015, or any point prior to this. And Ive seen, when requested by C in 2021, Marsh Ltd sent 
C details of their commission. So, I cant say Marsh Ltd have acted unfairly here. There was 
no requirement for them to disclose their commission rate unless requested by C  and once 
this was requested, Marsh Ltd acted in line with the rules in disclosing details of their 
commission. 
The next point Ive looked into is Cs concern about the amount charged. Our service doesnt 
have the power to set a commission rate for all brokers to follow, but we can look to see 
whether a consumer has been treated fairly  and if they havent, we can direct them to put 
things right. In this case, Mr A believes C hasnt been treated fairly as he claims Marsh Ltd 
originally claimed their commission was between 10-12%, and then during a meeting in 
2015, Marsh Ltd claimed it was now 14%. Marsh Ltd have provided details of the 
commission they received from the insurer between 2003 to 2020  and details of the broker 
fee they received in 2021. Marsh Ltd explain the commission is usually calculated as a percentage of the insurance premium and the percentage will have been contractually 
agreed with the insurer. 
Looking at the premiums paid by C and applying the commission paid to Marsh Ltd, its clear 
the commission percentage was greater than the range of 10-14% Mr A says he was led to 
believe. For example, in 2012, and at the point Mr A says he believed the commission was 
10-12%, the commission earned by Marsh Ltd was £2,549.97. From the calculations 
provided by Mr A, it appears this represents 39% of the premium. And in 2015, when Mr A 
says he was led to believe the commission was 14%, the commission earned was 
£2,625.49. From the calculations provided by Mr A, it appears this represents 43%. I can see 
Marsh Ltd explain the commission set by the insurer was always 30% of the net premium, 
and they believe the reason Cs calculation of percentages seem higher is because C isnt 
applying the net premium when doing the calculation. Looking at the calculations provided 
by C, I think that is the case.  
For 2012, C are using a premium of £6,530.17 but the net premium for that year was £8,519. 
And for 2015, C are using a premium of £6,129.51 but the net premium was £8,755. Ive 
calculated the commission amount against the net premium and for both 2012 and 2015, the 
commission is 30%. That said, while this is lower than the percentage amounts calculated by 
C, its still higher than what Mr A says he was led to believe, so Ive looked into whether C 
has been treated unfairly here. 
Ive looked at this in two parts, firstly, whether Im satisfied Marsh Ltds commission of 30% 
is broadly proportionate to the work carried out. And secondly, whether Mr A was led to 
believe the commission was lower than 30%. 
Ive already mentioned, above, the work which Marsh Ltd carried out as set out in the 
capacity and services section of the report. In addition to this, I can see they negotiate with 
the insurer on behalf of C. For example, in 2015 they negotiated with the insurer to secure 
level terms and rates, and again in 2019 they negotiated a reduction in the price initially 
offered by the insurer. And, from reports and emails Ive seen, Marsh Ltd also search the 
market to find the most competitive policy for C which meets its demands and needs. So, 
Marsh Ltd have demonstrated theyve carried out work for the commission - and from the 
information Ive seen, I cant say this wasnt proportionate to the 30% they received. 
Ive also considered whether Marsh Ltd were treating C unfairly by recommending a 
particular insurer based on the commission rates they could achieve. I havent seen any 
evidence Marsh Ltds recommendations were based on the commission rates or of them 
placing their own interests above that of Cs. Ive seen information which shows Marsh Ltd 
made it clear what their market search involved and what their recommendation was based 
on. Ive referred to a few examples here. In 2014, they searched the market and found their 
recommended insurer to be most competitive and they explain why other insurers wouldnt 
match this. In 2015, Marsh Ltd managed to secure level rates to the previous year and it 
remained competitive. 
In 2019, their recommended insurer offered the lowest price. And, Marsh Ltd also explain 
they tried to obtain quotes from other insurers, but they werent happy with there being 
unoccupied units in the building. They also explain the risks associated with another insurer 
potentially carrying out a survey and requesting additional risk improvements to the ones 
already in place with the existing insurer. In 2021, theyve listed nine insurers who declined 
to offer a policy and one which was uncompetitive. Given the information Ive seen, I cant 
say Marsh Ltd have treated C unfairly here. Turning to the next point, I havent seen any evidence, other than Mr As and another 
partners comments, that Marsh Ltd informed C their commission was 10-12%. So, I cant 
say Marsh Ltd have treated C unfairly in relation to the commission earned prior to 2015. In 
their complaint response, and response to our service, Marsh Ltd say the 14% commission 
percentage is incorrect and they have no evidence of this being discussed with Mr A in 2015. 
Given theres no evidence, Ive looked at the information I do have to decide what I believe, 
more likely than not, has happened here. 
Theres no dispute that a meeting took place between C and Marsh Ltd in September 2015. 
The information shows an exchange of emails to arrange a meeting for Marsh Ltd to check 
with C whether the renewal terms are accurate. Following the meeting, Marsh Ltd email C 
with an updated renewal questionnaire setting out changes they agreed. A renewal quotation 
report is then sent to C and is followed by an email exchange with C agreeing to renew 
based on Marsh Ltd securing agreement from the insurer to charge the same price as the 
previous year. The policy is then renewed.    
Theres no reference here to there being any discussion around commission, or 14% being 
communicated as the agreed level of commission. I note Mr A says, while the meeting in 
2015 was to discuss renewal terms, its obvious this wouldve included how Marsh Ltd are 
paid and their commission level. Mr A says he trusted the information given to him and, had 
he been made aware of the actual commission percentage, he wouldve asked Marsh Ltd to 
change to a broker fee charge instead of commission  something which was arranged after 
C complained in 2021. 
I can see Mr A has also provided a statement from each of the other partners. One partner 
who attended the meeting says, when asked by Mr A about their commission, the 
representative from Marsh Ltd said it was 14%. The other partner says, he met with the 
other two partners a few days after the meeting, and they confirmed to him theyd been 
informed by Marsh Ltd their commission was 14%. I accept these two statements 
corroborate Mr As own statement and testimony on what was discussed at the meeting, but 
I think its important to weigh up all the information I have.     
I note Mr A says it was obvious the meeting would include a discussion around Marsh Ltds 
commission. From this, Im taking it that Mr A suggests this formed an important part of the 
discussion. Following the meeting, Marsh Ltd sent a renewal quotation report which sets out 
a breakdown of the premium and all information relevant to the policy. Theres no mention of 
the commission percentage in this report or in the email which attached the report. Even 
after this, Mr A calls Marsh Ltd and also sends an email, but he makes no reference to the 
commission he says was discussed at the meeting. In the email, Mr A confirms he accepts 
the renewal terms subject to Marsh Ltd securing the same premium as the previous year. I 
think its fair to conclude, had the commission discussion formed an important part of the 
meeting  as Mr A says it did  I think its reasonable to expect Mr A wouldve confirmed at 
some point in the post-meeting communication that he understands, and has been informed, 
the commission being charged is 14%. I believe its reasonable to expect this wouldve been 
mentioned by Mr A in his communication which followed the meeting, particularly as it isnt 
mentioned in the report or emails sent by Marsh Ltd. 
Looking beyond the contemporaneous evidence around the meeting in 2015, Ive also 
thought carefully about the policy years which followed. The renewals between 2016 to 2020 
followed a similar pattern. Although its not clear whether there was a meeting for each of 
these years, Ive seen information which shows a renewal quotation report was sent each 
year with no mention of what the commission level was. I cant see Mr A queried the 
commission level at any point or even asked Marsh Ltd to confirm whether the commission 
was still 14%. I think its fair and safe to conclude, had Mr A been informed in 2015 the commission level was 14%, I believe its reasonable to expect he wouldve at some point 
between 2016 to 2020 queried whether the commission was still 14%.     
In order to decide this complaint, Ive weighed up the evidence to determine what I find most 
persuasive. On the one hand, while I accept the partners have provided a consistent account 
of events, I cant disregard the fact that the statements are a recollection of an event which 
occurred nearly seven years before. On the other hand, theres contemporaneous evidence 
which shows communication between C and Marsh Ltd before, and more importantly, after 
the meeting where theres no reference to 14% commission being discussed. And, as 
mentioned above, given that its not mentioned by Marsh Ltd, on the basis Mr A says it was 
an important factor, I wouldve expected this to have been mentioned by him in the 
communication that followed the meeting  even if it was to confirm what he says he was 
told by the representative. So, in weighing up all the information Ive seen which includes 
both parties testimony, and basing this on the balance of probabilities, I believe its more 
likely than not, Marsh Ltd didnt inform C that the commission was 14%. 
I acknowledge Mr As point that Marsh Ltd have partially upheld Cs complaint about the 
inaccurate information given  and I note Mr A says this means they agree the partners at C 
had been misled. The complaint response says Unfortunately there are no minutes on our 
records in respect of the meeting in 2015, and therefore I have been unable to establish 
precisely what was discussed. However, I accept that you recall being advised by 
[representative] that we earned 14% commission on the policy at that time. The commission 
amount of 14% is clearly incorrect and I can only sincerely apologise that you were given 
inaccurate information. I do acknowledge why Mr A believes this suggests Marsh Ltd accept 
theyd made an error, but Im not persuaded this is an unequivocal acceptance that they 
provided misleading information about the commission. 
I say this for two reasons. Firstly, in the complaint response, and in their response to our 
service, Marsh Ltd say they havent been able to establish with any certainty what was 
discussed. This suggests they cant say for definite that Mr A was informed the commission 
would be 14%. Secondly, I can see our investigator has specifically asked Marsh Ltd 
whether theyve seen any information to suggest 14% commission was discussed. Marsh 
Ltd have responded to say they havent been able to trace any records which suggest the 
commission rate was discussed in 2015. So, while I agree Marsh Ltd have partially upheld 
the complaint, this appears to be worded in a way which suggests they accept Mr A recalls 
being told the commission was 14% but, in their response to our service, they say theres no 
evidence this discussion took place.       
I understand the partners at C will be disappointed with my decision. I do wish to reassure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman