DRN-4281802
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bristol Street First Investments Ltd, whose appointed representatives 
are Albert Farnell Limited and who were trading as Vertu Land Rover Guiseley (Ill call them 
Vertu for ease), misrepresented an agreement she entered into with them to finance a new 
car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I dont think there is sufficient evidence that this 
agreement has been misrepresented to her. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
Its Mrs Ss position that she was misinformed about the guaranteed future value of the car 
she financed. I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest that was the case.
The finance agreement of 25 March 2019 sets out what that guaranteed future value is and 
the electronic, digitally time stamped, signature suggests Mrs S agreed to that. The order 
form clarifies and corroborates the total price that is to be financed and has been signed by 
Mrs S, as has the vehicle invoice. I cant see that a false statement of fact has been made. 
Mrs S suggests an earlier order form she signed on 13 March 2019 is for the car she 
eventually received. Vertu say that order was for a different car and was subsequently 
changed. Im persuaded that is a more likely explanation as the 13 March 2019 order form 
doesnt mention the car is automatic and its clear Mrs S wanted an automatic; the order 
form also has a different price that I think suggests it was for a manual vehicle; and because 
Mrs S signed the subsequent documentation that accurately set out the financial 
commitments Vertu then held her to.
Im not, therefore persuaded that this finance agreement has been misrepresented to Mrs S 
and I am not asking Vertu to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman