DRN-3384239
The complaint
Mr F complains Monzo Bank Limited didnt apply its gambling block the way it said it would 
and that he gambled and lost money as a result.
What happened
Mr F has an account with Monzo Bank and, he says, a couple of other businesses.
Monzo offers its customers the ability to block gambling transactions. This block can be 
switched on using Monzos app.
On 6 July 2020 Mr F contacted Monzo through its chat facility. The gambling block for Mr Fs 
account was switched on at the time. He asked Monzo to turn off the block with immediate 
effect. The agent who replied to Mr F said turning off the block normally takes 48 hours. 
Having asked Mr F several questions, the agent turned the block off with immediate effect. 
That was on 7 July.
The following day Mr F complained about Monzo removing the block without waiting for 48 
hours. He said hed gambled that evening and lost over £750. He wanted Monzo to refund 
him.
Monzo investigated Mr Fs complaint and said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, 
Mr F complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint and said that they didnt think Monzo 
had applied enough friction when Mr F had asked for the block to be removed. So, they 
upheld Mr Fs complaint and awarded £200 in compensation for the distress caused. Monzo 
disagreed with the outcome, saying it had done nothing wrong. So, I was asked to consider 
this complaint.
Having considered this complaint, I issued a Provisional Decision saying that I didnt think 
Monzo had done anything wrong, and that I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to tell it 
to do more. Mr F disagreed with me saying that Monzo had breached its own terms and 
conditions, and that they were misleading, because Monzos terms and conditions say that it 
takes 48 hours to remove the gambling block. Mr F said he had accounts with other banks 
who he contacted on the same day and they refused to turn the block off immediately. Mr F 
thought my decision, including disagreeing with our investigator, was unfair and unjustified. 
He wasnt happy with how long it had taken for his complaint to be dealt with either. Monzo 
accepted my Provisional Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has told us that he has problems with gambling.
As I mentioned in my Provisional Decision, I can see Mr F contacted Monzo through its chat 
facility on 6 July 2020 shortly before 7pm asking Monzo to turn off the gambling block with 
immediate effect. Normally an agent replies quickly. In this case, an agent didnt reply until 
shortly before 6am the following day. The agent asked Mr F why he wanted to remove the 
block urgently and whether his circumstances had changed since he had enabled the block. 
The agent also said that if Mr F was struggling with gambling in any way, or in financial 
difficulties, to let them know so they could point him in the direction of advice and support, 
should he need it. Mr F replied shortly before midday to say that he wasnt a problem 
gambler, gambled responsibly and never knew the account had a gambling block so hed 
like it removed. An hour later the agent replied to say that the block isnt automatically put on 
so he would have needed to enable the block. They also asked again why he needed the 
block removing urgently and whether his circumstances had changed since he had enabled 
the block. Mr F replied ten minutes later to say that hed never enabled the block and that it 
had been on since the account was opened and that he wanted to bet on the football match 
that evening. Mr F hadnt told Monzo at that stage that he had a gambling problem, so the 
agent removed the block immediately.
As I mentioned in my Provisional Decision, Ive seen Monzos policy in relation to its 
gambling block. I can see a note that the agent made at the time that suggests they 
considered the policy before removing the block and followed it. I dont think that the 
transactional activity on Mr Fs account showed he had a gambling problem at the time. So, I 
wouldnt have expected the agent to have escalated the request because of this. Monzos 
policy does, however, suggest that where a customer wants to remove a block in less than 
48 hours that the vulnerable customers team should have input. I cant see that they did. So, 
it does look like Monzo might not have followed its policy to the letter in this case. The block 
that Monzo offers  and the friction that it creates  is a really helpful tool for consumers with 
a gambling problem. It can give consumers with a gambling problem time to rethink and get 
over their immediate urge to gamble.
The following day Mr F complained saying that hed lost a lot of money gambling and he 
wanted Monzo to refund him. In that complaint Mr F told Monzo that he had a gambling 
problem. Im satisfied that this was the first time hed told Monzo this, and that there was
As I mentioned in my Provisional Decision, on 11 August 2020 Mr F contacted Monzo 
through its chat facility asking for the gambling block to be removed  hed done so a couple 
of other times too. An agent replied an hour later to say that the process of removing the 
block could be started, and that in 48 hours hed be able to see the option to turn the block 
off. Three hours later Mr F asked for the block to be switched off with immediate effect. The 
same agent replied two minutes later asking why he wanted to remove the block urgently 
and whether his circumstances had changed since he had enabled the block. The agent also 
said that if Mr F was struggling with gambling in any way, or in financial difficulties, to let 
them know so they could point him in the direction of advice and support, should he need it. 
Mr F replied an hour later to say that he wanted to bet on the football match that evening. I 
can see that the agent saw a note to say Mr F had told Monzo that he had a gambling 
problem  this note was added after he complained on 8 July 2020. So, they escalated the 
request to Monzos vulnerable customers team an hour and a half after his original request. 
Mr F told a new agent that had taken over by then that normally the advisor just turns the 
block off for him. The agent explained again that Monzo had a dedicated team that deals 
with requests like his, and that they were passing the request over to them. Half an hour 
later an agent from the specialist team contacted Mr F and explained why Monzos gambling 
block is designed with a 48 hour cool down period. The agent asked whether everything was 
OK with Mr Fs gambling. The agent asked a couple more questions and Mr F explained why 
he uses the block and again that he wanted to bet on the football that evening. I can see the 
agent believed theyd applied friction and that they didnt want to apply any more pressure, 
so they agreed to remove the block. I think what happened on 11 August is important when deciding whether or not Monzos response on 6 July was fair and reasonable or not. Ill 
explain why.
As Ive already mentioned the block that Monzo offers  and the friction that it creates  is a 
really helpful tool for consumers with a gambling problem. It can give consumers with a 
gambling problem time to rethink and get over their immediate urge to gamble. The block 
often works, but not always. Theres an argument that in this case the agent who was 
chatting to Mr F on 7 July ought to have got guidance from Monzos vulnerable customers 
team. Had they got guidance from Monzos vulnerable customer team, however, given that 
Mr F hadnt told Monzo he had a gambling problem, given that there were no transactional 
warnings and given that the friction applied on 11 August wasnt enough to stop Mr F going 
ahead and gambling, I dont think it would have made a difference. I should add that the 
block wasnt actually removed immediately either, because of the delay in the agent getting 
back. It was removed over 18 hours after Mr F asked for it to be removed immediately. Mr F 
still wanted to gamble at that point. So leaving the block on for an additional 30 hours  
meaning it would have stayed on for 48 hours after Mr F had asked for it to be removed (as 
advertised)  might not have made a difference either although many consider the 48 hour 
period to be the right amount of time to allow a problem gambler time to rethink and get over 
their immediate urge to gamble. As such, I dont think Monzos response to Mr Fs request 
on 6 July 2020 to remove the gambling block was unfair or unreasonable. I agree with Mr F 
that Monzos terms and conditions say that it takes 48 hours to remove the block, and I can 
understand why he feels this is misleading. Monzos terms and conditions  and what they 
say  are, however one of a number of considerations I have to take into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable. And having taken all those considerations into 
account, as mentioned above, I dont think it would have made any difference if the agent 
had followed Monzos guidance to the letter.
 
Mr F contacted Monzo on 11 August  as Ive already mentioned  to ask for the block to be 
removed. On that occasion Monzo applied more friction saying that the block could only be 
removed with 48 hours notice. I think that this was the right thing to do, and it shows that as 
Monzo learnt more about Mr Fs gambling problem  a problem it had only recently became 
aware of  the more its been able to help.
In this case, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
tell Monzo to do more than it has already done so. I dont think Monzo has done anything 
wrong, and its good to see Monzo made a note of Mr Fs gambling problem when he shared 
it with Monzo and took steps to help support him. Its good to see how Monzos response 
has evolved too as its understanding of Mr Fs gambling problem has evolved. It follows that 
I dont agree that Monzo ought to be paying any compensation to Mr F.
I appreciate that Mr F isnt happy with my decision, and that he thinks its unfair that Ive 
reached a different outcome to our investigator. Both parties, however, have the right to refer 
a complaint to an ombudsman if they disagree with what our investigator says. In this case, 
Monzo disagreed with our investigator. The ombudsman who looks at the complaint does so 
with a fresh pair of eyes and may or may not agree with the investigator. Thats how it should 
be. In this particular case, having looked at the complaint with a fresh pair of eyes, I dont 
think its a complaint we should uphold. So, I let both parties know what I was thinking  
given that I was thinking differently to our investigator  and gave them both an opportunity 
to comment. Mr F has done so, and Ive taken his comments into account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think Monzo Bank Limited has done anything wrong and I 
wont be telling it to do more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman