DRN-4116755
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on 
his wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H was due to get married (to Ms M) in April 2021 in an overseas location. The wedding 
couldnt go ahead because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In February 2022 Ms M contacted 
RSA and said they were planning to reschedule the wedding. However, prices had gone up 
and she wanted to know whether the policy would cover those increased costs. The adviser 
said if the original wedding couldnt go ahead because it would have been curtailed by Covid 
restrictions the policy would cover rearrangement costs. 
In June 2022 Mr H provided further details of the original cost of the wedding and the cost of 
a rescheduled one. RSA turned down the claim. It said the policy covered cancellation or 
rearrangement where the venue was unable to host the wedding for one of the reasons set 
out in the policy. But in this case the venue would have been able to do so; the cancellation 
was because Mr H, Ms M and their guests werent able to travel because of Covid 
restrictions in place at the time. That wasnt something their policy covered. 
Our investigator agreed that, although there would have been restrictions in place, the venue 
could have hosted the wedding. He didnt think RSA acted unfairly in turning down the claim. 
But he agreed it gave inaccurate advice during the February phone call because the adviser 
did say the claim would be covered if there were Covid restrictions in place (even if the 
wedding could still have gone ahead). He accepted it would have been distressing for 
Mr H to later be told the claim wasnt covered. He said RSA should pay Mr H £250. 
RSA asked for further information on the phone call with its adviser (which our investigator 
provided) but didnt respond further. Mr H didnt agree. In summary he said:
RSAs adviser told them a number of times during the February call they would be 
covered if Covid restrictions were in place at their venue (which they were). He didnt 
think RSA should be able to backtrack on that commitment; 
In any case they had suffered financial loss as a result of being given that inaccurate 
information because they accepted offers from some suppliers to move the booking for 
their wedding rather than accept a refund. If given the correct advice theyd have 
accepted a refund. 
The proposed compensation wasnt sufficient to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience they were caused. Significant effort had been put in over several months 
to replanning the wedding which could have been avoided if theyd been correctly 
advised. And theyd also had to put together documentation to support their claim which 
again they wouldnt have needed to do if RSA had given them clear information. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. That does provide cover for 
rearrangement costs where a wedding has been cancelled. But thats only where the 
cancellation results from a specified list of events set out in the policy. 
That includes the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold 
your wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue, 
incomplete building work at the venue, murder or suicide at the premises, bankruptcy, 
liquidation or closure of the venue by the relevant authority.
I appreciate Mr H (and Ms M and their guests) wouldnt have been able to reach the venue 
because of the travel restrictions in place at the time. But that isnt something thats covered 
by their policy. For cover to be provided the circumstances need to fall within the above 
terms. And I can see the venue has confirmed to RSA that while Covid related restrictions 
were in place when the wedding was due to take place it was nevertheless able to host 
weddings at this time. So I think RSA acted correctly and fairly in turning down the claim 
Mr H made. 
However, I appreciate that isnt what Ms M was told when she contacted RSA in February 
2022. During the call with her the adviser did say that if Covid-19 restrictions curtailed the 
wedding (for example by making people wear masks and not allowing dancing) the policy 
would cover rearrangement costs. That isnt correct and I agree RSA was at fault here. 
But where a business has made an error our normal approach is to consider how a 
consumer has been impacted by that and what position they would have been in but for that 
error. If a business has wrongly advised a consumer and that caused them to incur costs 
they wouldnt otherwise have incurred we might say the business should be responsible for 
those.
I dont think thats the case here. I appreciate Ms M was wrongly advised during the call but 
after that she was sent an email asking for relevant information in support of the claim which 
said In the meantime, where appropriate, we would ask our customers to refrain from 
making any additional payments to venues or suppliers. 
Mr H didnt then provide information in support of his claim to RSA for a further four months. 
If hed done that earlier hed have known sooner what the outcome of this was. And when he 
did contact RSA in June he said they hadnt confirmed a wedding date with their venue and 
the comparative costings he provided appear to have been with the published prices of 
suppliers rather than for costs theyd actually incurred. 
He also said if you could let us know whether it is possible to claim for each of these items, 
that would be very helpful. All of that suggests to me that Mr H hadnt incurred actually 
additional costs as a consequence of the incorrect advice he was given by RSA. 
Mr H also says he accepted offers from some suppliers to move the booking for their 
wedding rather than accept a refund. Our investigator asked for further evidence in support 
of this but we havent received that. In any case Im not clear any loss here could have come 
about as a result of the identified failing by RSA. The wedding was scheduled for April 2021 (which is presumably when discussion about cancellation or postponement would have 
taken place) and the call with RSA took place in February 2022. 
Nor do I think its possible to say the efforts put into rescheduling the wedding were a 
consequence of what RSA got wrong; I think it likely Mr H would always have needed to 
establish what the cost of a rescheduled wedding was in order to decide whether that was 
something he wanted to go ahead with (and that was information which then informed the 
claim he made to RSA). However, I do accept it will have been distressing for Mr H to learn 
the claim was being turned down when RSA had clearly indicated otherwise during its call 
with Ms M. Ive thought about the impact of that on him and I think the £250 our investigator 
recommended is the right amount to recognise this. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will need to 
put things right by paying Mr H £250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman