DRN-3429225
The complaint
Company S complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited (Towergate) mis-sold it 
an employers liability policy and feels the brokers actions led to its claim being declined 
following a work-related accident of the director.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr S (the director of Company S) said he assumed he would have been covered 
under the employers liability policy. But while I appreciate Mr S was previously an 
employee (and considers himself as such still), he is nonetheless listed as the 
director of the company. And the director of a company is not covered under an 
employers liability policy as it would result in the untenable position of the director 
having to sue himself following an accident. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
Towergate told him anything that wouldve led to this mistaken assumption. And In 
order for the director to be covered against such eventualities, it would be necessary 
for them to have taken out a personal accident policy.
In terms of the sale/renewal of the policy, Towergate held a meeting with Mrs S (the 
director of the since dissolved company P of which Mr S was an employee at the 
time) in August 2019, where it appears that the broker discussed additional 
insurances (including personal accident cover). This was declined at the time, as it 
was stated in the minutes that [Mrs S] advises that no additional quotes are required 
at this stage. I understand that these discussions were held before S was 
incorporated. But it seems that all parties were of the understanding that the 
insurance cover would begin under Company P, where the policy would then be 
amended and put in the name of Company S (of which Mr S was to be the director).  
Given that Company P has since been dissolved, it means it no longer exists and so 
is not eligible to bring a complaint to our service. Therefore, Im unable to consider 
any points about Towergates interactions with this company, which includes the sale 
of the policy to it, and can only consider what happened from the point the policy was 
transferred over to the newly incorporated Company S (which is now the only eligible 
complainant).
I appreciate that S disputes any other insurance being offered to it directly, as the 
renewal discussions were held with Company P. However, Towergate said it was not 
told that a new company had been created and was under the impression that the 
change of name was simply a cosmetic change in trading title rather than a 
completely separate company. It says that it would have met with Mr S separately to 
discuss the needs of the new company if it had known this was the case. Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest that Towergate knew Company S was a separate legal 
entity to Company P. And this is also reflected in the correspondence sent between 
Mr S and the broker, where it refers to all policies and documentation being in the 
new trading title now. So, Towergate wouldnt have been aware of the need to carry 
out a new demands and needs meeting with a separate company (which would have 
likely required a completely separate policy).
In any event, I can see that the insurance renewal report of September 2019 (which 
names S as the insured, rather than P) states that Group Personal Accident cover 
as an uninsured risk. So, if S considered this to be an important part of its demands 
and needs, it ought reasonably to have been aware that it didnt have such cover and 
could have questioned/challenged this after receiving the insurance renewal report. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr S made any requests to 
Towergate specifically asking for personal accident cover to be included in the 
companys policy after cover was transferred to Company S. And given Towergate 
were seemingly unaware of the change in legal entity from Company P to 
Company S, Im not persuaded that it has acted unfairly by failing to offer personal 
accident cover again, particularly as it had already been through this with Company 
P, which it ultimately assumed was still the same company being insured (albeit 
trading under a different name). 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Company S. But for the reasons outlined 
above, I do not consider Towergate has acted unfairly here, so I will not be asking it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman