DRN-2622686
The complaint
P Ltd complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining its claim for legal assistance under a legal expenses insurance 
policy. It wants matters put right.
What happened
P Ltd had a legal expenses insurance policy with DAS; it also had a business interruption 
insurance policy with another insurer. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, P Ltd wanted to make 
a claim under its business interruption policy but its claim was declined. P Ltd made a claim 
under the legal expenses policy to take action. DAS declined the claim as the panel solicitor 
didnt think the claim had reasonable prospects of success. It said P Ltd should contact this 
service instead to complain about the business interruption insurer until the test case about 
business interruption insurance brought by the Financial Conduct Authority was decided.
P Ltd said both it and the insurer agreed that the test case was unlikely to apply in P Ltds 
case. It complained. DAS said it had explained to P Ltd that it needed the final response 
letter from the business interruption insurer to consider the claim; once it was received, the 
case was referred to a panel solicitor to get an opinion about the prospects of the claim, 
despite its usual policy of asking policyholders to contact this service while the test case was 
underway. DAS paid £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its staff asking 
P Ltd to contact this service first when it had been agreed that this wasnt necessary. 
DAS said that it took about two weeks for the solicitor to advise that there wasnt a 
reasonable prospect of success as required by the policy. DAS said that it was fair and 
reasonable for it to decline the claim on this basis and to rely on legal advice from a suitably 
qualified lawyer. It offered to consider any concerns about the advice P Ltd wished to raise, 
but none had been received. DAS added that if P Ltd wanted a review of the legal advice, it 
could get a second opinion from a barrister at its own expense, the costs of which would be 
refunded if it supported P Ltds position. DAS said that the language used by P Ltds director 
when dealing with its staff was far from acceptable and if continued could lead to the policy 
being voided, and the calls to its staff should stop as its position was final.
P Ltd complained to us and said that the panel solicitors were acting under a conflict of 
interest as they were acting for DAS. It also sent evidence that another law firm was willing 
to send a letter to the business interruption insurer (but no second opinion from that law firm 
or a barrister was forwarded). 
The investigators view was that the legal expenses policy required reasonable prospects of 
success, and it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on legal advice from a suitably 
qualified lawyer, as was the case in P Ltds claim. The investigator hadnt seen any factual 
inaccuracies raised by P Ltd about the advice. But she pointed out that the situation had now 
changed as the test case had been decided; the investigator thought that it was fair and 
reasonable for DAS to get another assessment of the prospects of success. She added that 
P Ltd was unhappy with the new advice, it was free to get its own expert opinion at its own 
cost and if it was supportive, DAS should refund the cost of the opinion. 
The investigator said that there hadnt been a conflict of interest between P Ltd and the 
panel solicitor as the solicitor hadnt been instructed to act on P Ltds behalf  it was advising 
DAS. And she didnt think DAS had acted unfairly or unreasonably in dealing with P Ltd, and 
had communicated within its own service standards.
DAS accepted the investigators view but P Ltd disagreed. It said when the panel solicitors 
advised, it was in dispute with DAS about cover and it believed the advice was for its benefit. 
P Ltd wasnt happy about how the panel solicitors gathered evidence and said they got the 
law wrong. P Ltd wanted DAS to pay for its new lawyers. 
The investigator explained that the actions of the solicitors wasnt something for which DAS 
was responsible and without a legal opinion that there were reasonable prospects of 
success, there was no cover under the policy, including for P Ltds current legal costs. The 
investigator reminded P Ltd that it could get its own second opinion as previously set out. 
P Ltd made further comments and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The investigator 
said P Ltd and DAS would have to agree to DAS paying for a second opinion from another 
panel solicitor, and as P Ltd wouldnt agree, there was nothing further DAS should do. P Ltd 
demanded that an ombudsman with experience in legal practice considered the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to DAS, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. It requires any claim to be 
covered by the policy to have reasonable prospects of success. This is seen by this service 
as having 51% or more chance of success. Theres no dispute between the parties about 
this.
DAS is an insurer, not a law firm. Its fair and reasonable for it to instruct a suitably qualified 
lawyer to advise on the prospect of success of P Ltds claim, and to rely on that advice, if it 
isnt obviously wrong when read by a layman (for example, the advice contains fundamental 
factual errors). The law firm instructed is suitably qualified and the individual who gave the 
advice was a solicitor practising in the relevant field. Ive read the advice. Its detailed and 
sets out the argument clearly. The advice pointed out that the test case might affect the 
position (despite P Ltd saying to DAS that it wouldnt). Theres nothing in it that I think a 
layman would think is obviously wrong, and I note P Ltd hasnt set out what it says is 
factually incorrect, other than it doesnt agree with the conclusion and it wasnt happy that it 
couldnt talk to the solicitor.
Professional conduct issues arent something this service deals with  solicitors are subject 
to a Code of Conduct. That said, the evidence shows the panel solicitor wasnt instructed to 
advise P Ltd so its difficult to see how theres a conflict of interest. This service doesnt deal 
with hypothetical situations.
I note P Ltd hasnt provided a second opinion from a barrister, though DAS has explained it 
is willing to review the matter and refund the costs if a supportive opinion is received. Its 
offered to put factual inaccuracies to the panel solicitor, but none have been received. The 
investigator has rightly pointed out the situation has now changed as the test case not only 
has been determined by the High Court, but now has been to the Supreme Court. No further 
appeal is possible, so the legal position is more settled. DAS isnt to blame for the change in position but was aware the situation was fluid when it instructed the panel solicitors. It did so 
due to its sympathy for P Ltds position. I think that it would be fair and reasonable for P Ltd 
to pay for a new opinion, not DAS. P Ltd knew about the test case and pushed for DAS to 
act, rather than come to this service  DAS paid for advice because P Ltd insisted.
P Ltd decided to instruct its own solicitors after the panel solicitors advice was received and 
wants DAS to pay the costs. This position ignores the terms of the policy, which DAS has 
reiterated to P Ltd. DAS isnt liable for costs it hasnt authorised and theres no liability to 
make any payment until reasonable prospects of success are established. P Ltd hasnt sent 
a second opinion from a barrister and so the only opinion DAS has is from the panel 
solicitors, who advised that there isnt a reasonable prospect of success. Ive already 
explained why its fair and reasonable for DAS to rely on this advice. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to ignore the terms and conditions of 
the policy, particularly in the absence of a second opinion obtained by P Ltd. Such an 
opinion should be from a barrister and prepared using the information DAS or the panel 
solicitors had when they advised, but it would be appropriate for the judgment from the test 
case to be considered as this is a matter of law. As P Ltd says it has solicitors acting on its 
behalf, it should be able to easily obtain a second opinion, and if it supports P Ltds view, the 
cost should be refunded by DAS. It can then consider covering future costs in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
That said, I note DAS is willing to pay for another assessment of the claim in light of the test 
case decision. This is more than fair and reasonable in my view, given P Ltd hasnt provided 
a second opinion itself or set out in detail the factual errors with the panel solicitors advice. 
The original advice was only provided as a gesture of goodwill even though all knew the 
situation was in flux due to the test case.
P Ltd complains that DAS caused unnecessary delays. I disagree. First, it was fair and 
reasonable for it to require the final response letter from the business interruption insurer to 
know exactly the grounds for the decline. No sensible analysis of the claim could be carried 
out without it, and the policy entitled DAS to require sight of the letter. DAS isnt responsible 
for the time taken to provide the letter. Once all the necessary evidence was gathered, DAS 
instructed the panel solicitor, who promptly provided a detailed advice. DAS accepts that on 
one occasion its staff told P Ltd to follow the standard procedure and contact this service, 
despite having agreed to instruct the panel solicitor instead. This error was put right within a 
reasonable timeframe and £100 compensation paid, despite the fact a limited company cant 
suffer upset; it can only be put to inconvenience. This was fair and reasonable in my view 
and Im not persuaded DAS caused unnecessary delay. What P Ltd really is complaining 
about is that it doesnt accept the advice given, and Ive dealt with this point.
And while P Ltd felt it shouldve received swifter answers to its many emails and calls, I note 
the contemporaneous contact notes and emails show how P Ltd was conducting itself, which 
was in a way this service wouldnt find acceptable. P Ltd through its director was abusive to 
staff and made several wholly inappropriate comments. There was also a pandemic ongoing 
at the time and many of DAS staff were working from home, which meant phone calls were 
problematic. Despite these challenges, Im satisfied that DAS dealt with the barrage of 
communications fairly and reasonably, and gave reasons for its position throughout.
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think DAS needs to do anything further unless P 
Ltd is willing to agree to a second panel solicitors being instructed to give a legal opinion or it 
obtains a second opinion from a barrister at its own cost which is supportive of its position.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and P to accept or reject my decision before 
23 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman