DRN-3566548
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss B approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in July 2020. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing. Miss B was not advanced a payday loan.
Miss B was initially given a facility with a £550 credit limit in July 2020. Her limit was
increased on a further two occasions with her final increase  taking the credit limit to £1,000
in November 2020.
Miss B had some problems repaying her facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman
that as of February 2022 an outstanding balance remained of £1,031.78.
An adjudicator reviewed at Miss Bs complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said it was
reasonable for SNC to have approved the facility as there wasnt anything that showed
Miss B was having difficulties. There also wasnt anything during the use of the facility that
wouldve led to SNC taking any further action.
While the facility was being used Miss B was making payments to one payday lender and a
third party debt management company. But the adjudicator didnt think, on its own that would
be enough to uphold the complaint.
SNC didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment or provide any further comments.
Miss B didnt agree with the outcome that was reached. In summary she said.
Miss B says she thinks SNC calculated the drawdowns as part of her income.
Drawdowns were sometimes made following Miss B transferring money to her 
savings account.
Miss B says the money was moved back into her current account (from her savings 
account) in order to cover bills when they were due.
Miss B feels the credit limit increases werent affordable.
Miss B says she didnt have enough money to get through the month without having 
to borrow from SNC again.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint. A copy of the findings I made following this section in italics and form 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the facility was provided.
To start with, Miss B wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time.
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown.
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumer finances and to allow it to
carry out additional affordability assessments.
Finally, Miss Bs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid.
Therefore, when Miss Bs facility was approved for £550 SNC needed to satisfy itself that
Miss B would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate
check.
Granting the facility
In this case, SNC says it had a fairly good idea of Miss Bs income and expenditure because
it had read only access to her bank statements for the year preceding the facility being
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Miss Bs income and expenditure was,
after completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Miss B could afford the
minimum repayment towards the facility.
However, I do have concerns with the way SNC calculated Miss Bs income. I can see that
Miss B is moving money from the account SNC had read only access to into another
account  which is marked as savings.
However, over the course of the month funds are moved back from the savings account into
Miss Bs account that SNC was monitoring.
Worryingly, SNCs algorithm classed these transfers as income, but I dont think this is
correct. SNC was in effect double counting income, as this was money that had been
received, moved into the savings account and then transferred back. The funds had also
been classed as income when Miss B was paid.
I can also see that the only sustained source of income was Miss Bs salary which was paid
monthly and was around £1,600.  so, I think this is the sum that SNC ought to have been
using when considering the affordability of the facility rather than the amount of income it
says it used of around £3,500.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the way SNC calculated Miss Bs income, I still think it
was reasonable for the facility to have been provided.
As part of the application process SNC carried out a credit search and SNC has sent the 
Financial Ombudsman Service the full results. Ive considered the summary of results SNC 
has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in those results which 
wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further 
checks before the facility was approved.For example, it was aware that there were defaults on Miss Bs credit file, but it was aware
the most recent of those defaults was recorded 42 months prior to the facility being
approved. In my view, this is too far removed from the start date to show SNC that Miss B
was or likely having financial difficulties.
Taking what I can see in the bank transaction data in the months leading up to the facility
being approved, including thinking about Miss Bs actual income as well as the outgoings I
can see such as utility bills, credit card payments and third-party debt management payment
SNC couldve reasonable concluded that Miss B would be able to firstly afford the credit limit
of £550 and secondly repay -any balance due within a reasonable period of time.
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, it was
unfair for it to have allowed Miss B to continue drawing down on the account from
26 November 2020. This is because I think the way she was using the account along with
my concerns about the income and a number of returned payments ought to have led SNC
to conclude the facility was no longer sustainable, Ill explain below why I think this is the
case.
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in
CONC and how it applies to this case.
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course,
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive.
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Miss Bs use of the facility and then
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Miss Bs actual financial position, because
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account.
Having reviewed, everything, I think by the end of November 2020 it was clear that Miss B
was having problems managing payments.
Firstly, throughout the time Miss B used her facility SNC appears to have overestimated
Miss Bs income. Ive already explained in the first part of this decision what SNC was doing
with the credits from her savings account  classing them as income. Which in my view was
incorrect and although the information SNC has provided doesnt show this continued to be
carried out. It is likely SNC continued to consider the transfers as her income as it did before
the facility was approved. Ive seen nothing to suggest it wasnt.
It seems to me that Miss B transferred out roughly the same amount that she transferred
back into her account  which further supports what she has told us about the purpose of
moving that money into her savings account. Ive not seen anything to suggest anything else
was going on.In addition, in between September and November 2020 Miss B had eight repayments to
different companies including utilities and debt management companies returned to her
account as unpaid. Which, as CONC 1.3 says is a sign of financial difficulties and SNC
needed to take these returned payments on board when considering whether the facility was
still suitable for Miss B.
In addition to this, Im concerned in the manner that Miss B was using the facility. As
discussed at the start of the decision, Miss Bs normal monthly income was around £1,600
and she seemed to have the same sort of living costs each month as she did at the start of
the facility. So, these were around £1,000 per month.
However, by the end of November 2020 Miss Bs credit limit was £1,000 but the manner in
which Miss B was using the facility was in my starting to become a concern.
Initially, Miss B drew up to her credit limit and then made payments which may not have
cleared the balance in full but made a significant reduction in what was owed. For example,
in August Miss B paid SNC through 3 repayments around £800 and she paid around £400 in
September 2020.
However, in October Miss B made a payment of £785 which I believe cleared (all or almost)
the account balance, before she started to drawdown on the facility almost straightaway.
Overall, in October 2020 Miss B made repayments to SNC of over £1,100. Which, given
Miss Bs income of around £1,600 is a significant amount and actually was unaffordable for
her considering her other monthly commitments that she had. But as this was the
first time, such large sums were repaid, I think it was reasonable for SNC to have allowed
Miss B to use the facility into November to see whether a pattern was emerging or whether
the use in this month was a one off.
A similar pattern happened din November as well, she made one repayment of over £900
before immediately starting to draw back down on the facility. It was by now, clear to me that
Miss B was repaying SNC nearly 75% of her income each month  which in my view isnt
unsustainable.
Overall, Im intending to uphold the complaint from 26 November 2020 because;
the way the facility was being used including the amounts that Miss B was repaying
each month as well as how quickly Miss B returned for new borrowing after a
repayment had been made was concerning and showed it was unsustainable.
My concerns that SNC had incorrectly calculated Miss Bs income because her
salary was around £1,600 per month.
Miss B was showing signs of financial distress given the number of returned unpaid
bills including priority bills such as utilities  as defined by CONC 1.3.
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively
intervened and contacted Miss B to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a
reasonable period of time. 
Response to provisional decision
Both Miss B and SNC were asked to provide any further information, comments or evidence 
for further consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 29 June 2022. 
SNC didnt respond or provide anything further for consideration.Miss B acknowledged the provisional decision and said she had nothing further to add. 
Miss B then sent a second email letting the Financial Ombudsman know that she had 
recently received a copy of the credit agreement for the facility from SNC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss B nor SNC has provided any new substantive evidence or comments for me to 
consider. I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the 
provisional decision.
So, I still think it was reasonable, based on a review of the transaction data SNC had access 
to that it approved the facility for Miss B. 
However, by 26 November 2020 there were signs in the way that the facility was being used 
as well as the returned payments to her account which ought to have led SNC to have 
stopped Miss B from using the facility. 
Ive outlined below what SNC needs to do in order to put things right for Miss B.
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A. Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
26 November 2020.
B. Treat all payments Miss B has made towards her account from 26 November 2020 
as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Miss B wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D. If there is still an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B. If SNC has previously 
written-off any principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only 
of principal it has already written-off.
E. SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Miss Bs credit 
file from 26 November 2020.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Bs 
complaint in part. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things for Miss B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman