DRN-3053915
The complaint
Company L has complained about Brunel Insurance Brokers Limited trading as Glentworth 
Insurance Services. It isnt happy that Brunel didnt tell it about a change in an exclusion 
under its commercial fleet insurance policy.
What happened
Company L added a car onto its fleet insurance policy that it took out through its broker 
Brunel. And when the car was stolen in December 2019 the insurer turned down the claim. 
This was because an exclusion was added in relation to the level of security required for the 
vehicle when the insurer changed earlier that year. The insurer that took over the policy 
required Company L to put a higher rated tracker on the car.
L accepted the claim wasnt covered by the insurer. But it questioned why Brunel didnt tell it 
about the significant change in cover around the time the insurer changed. But Brunel felt it 
had made this clear to Company L in the policy documentation. And highlighted that L hadnt 
fully complied with the earlier exclusion in relation to the previous security requirements. So 
L complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Company L and upheld the complaint. He was of the 
view that Brunel didnt highlight the exclusion to L and had they have done so he thought L 
would have ensured it complied with the security requirements and added the enhanced 
tracker as required.
Brunel didnt agree. They maintained the clause was made sufficiently clear; that there was 
a greater onus on L as a commercial customer to understand its policy; and that the insurer 
would have settled the claim if L had met part of the security exclusion. 
So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in 
deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary 
to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to 
the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint centres around the change in the security exclusion and how that 
was communicated to Company L. The previous insurer was bought out by the new insurer 
and the level of security required under the new policy increased to a higher specification. 
Brunel wrote out to L when the insurers requirement changed and said the policy was 
suitable for its needs. 
However, Brunel didnt highlight the significant change in the security requirements and the 
need for a higher-level of tracker for the car to be insured. I find this surprising given that the 
car wouldnt have been insured if the security exclusion wasnt applied, so the exclusion was 
significant. I would have expected Brunel to highlight the exclusion just as they did with the 
keys in car exclusion amongst other things. And as this was an advised sale I think this 
placed a greater onus on Brunel.
I know Brunel feel the insurer would have paid out had L have complied fully with the 
previous security requirement. But the insurer was asked about this and it said that wasnt 
the case and it wouldnt have covered Ls claim without the higher-level tracker being 
installed. And Im satisfied had Brunel have made the exclusion clear to Company L it would 
have updated the security on the car as required and this would have highlighted that it had 
a problem in relation to the previous security requirements. 
I agree that there is a greater onus on Company L as a commercial customer to understand 
its policy and the requirements. But Brunel also has a responsibility to ensure its customer is 
aware of key facts and exclusions under the policy, especially ones that are significant and 
would remove all cover. And as this was an advised sale and Brunel told L that the policy 
was suitable for its needs when it wasnt I think Brunel must take responsibility for this.
Given all of this I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Brunel to compensate L as if it was insured and covered in 
line with the exclusion. So it should pay L the market value of the vehicle plus 8% simple 
interest for the time it has been without the money owed. Ill leave Brunel to undertake the 
final valuation of Ls vehicle and pay a fair market value from around the time of theft in 
December 2019 in line with our general approach.  
Finally, as our investigator explained the GAP insurance claim can be advanced separately 
by Company L. And I know that L has incurred costs in employing a solicitor to help with its 
claim. But as our investigator explained previously this service doesnt generally consider 
such costs. This is because Company L could simply have advanced its complaint with this 
service direct and incurring such costs was unnecessary although I dont doubt that L found 
the legal advice helpful.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons explained above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Brunel 
Insurance Brokers Limited trading as Glentworth Insurance Services to pay Company L the 
market value of its car adding 8% simple interest from the date of theft until the date of 
payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Colin KeeganOmbudsman