DRN-4444445
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund over £66,000 he lost 
to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr W fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam after seeing an advert on social media. 
He made enquiries and was encouraged by a scam broker to invest his money. Between 
December 2021 and February 2022, he made several debit card payments and bank 
transfers from his Barclays account to purchase cryptocurrency, which was subsequently 
forwarded on to the scammer, totalling over £66,000.
Mr W realised he had been scammed when he was asked to pay large sums to withdraw his 
profits. He reported the scam to Barclays who attempted to recover his funds. It raised 
chargeback disputes for the debit card payments, which were unsuccessful because Mr W 
paid money to his own accounts to purchase cryptocurrency. 
In terms of the faster payments Mr W made, Barclays was able to recover some of the 
money he paid to his Swissborg account (which he could no longer access). A refund of 
£2,997 was credited to Mr Ws account on 16 February 2022. Swissborg also returned an 
additional £8,078.50 on 11 March 2022, but it was paid into Barclays sundry account, rather 
than going directly to Mr W. Barclays said it tried to resolve the issue with Swissborg but 
after six months it still hadnt reached a resolution, so it then paid the £8,078.50 directly to 
Mr W on 8 September 2022.
Mr W was also unhappy that Barclays initially gave a temporary credit of the debit card 
transactions which it later debited when the chargeback claims were unsuccessful. He said 
the bank hadnt told him it was only a temporary refund and Barclays accepted it had made 
an error by not informing him of this.
In order to settle Mr Ws complaint, as well as paying the amounts recovered to Mr W, 
Barclays offered to refund 50% of his remaining loss to the scam (totalling £27,633.63), 
including 8% interest, as well as offering £200 compensation for the poor service Mr W 
received. It declined to refund 100% of his loss as it considered Mr W should share 
responsibility due to his lack of due diligence in researching the investment before parting 
with his money. Mr W didnt think this was fair, so he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Ws complaint. She was satisfied Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly by only offering a 50% refund as she thought it was reasonable to hold Mr W jointly 
responsible. But the investigator thought Barclays could have done more to pay the 
£8,078.50 held in its sundry account to Mr W sooner, so she said it should pay 8% simple 
interest on this amount from the date it received the money until the date it was eventually 
paid to his account. Barclays didnt respond, and Mr W disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it in part for the following reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Mr W has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that he authorised the 
payments he made via debit card and bank transfer. Barclays has also accepted that it could 
have prevented the scam, which is why it offered to refund 50% of Mr Ws remaining loss. 
So, I dont intend to explore these points any further. What remains in dispute is whether 
Barclays offer of settlement is fair and whether it was reasonable for it to only offer 50% in 
light of Mr Ws own contributory negligence. 
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. And I 
have duly considered whether Mr W should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence, which Im satisfied he should in this case.
First, I dont consider Mr W carried out sufficient due diligence to ensure that the broker was 
genuine, as it doesnt appear he consulted any independent sources. Mr W confirmed to 
Barclays that he didnt complete any other checks or due diligence prior to parting with his 
money. And I can also see that there were warnings about the broker online at the time he 
chose to invest. So, if he had carried out a reasonable level of research, he could have 
discovered he was at risk of being scammed.
Mr W was also told by the scammer that his losses would be covered and that he had three 
chances whereby he wouldnt risk losing anything. Cryptocurrency trading can be highly 
volatile and there is always a very real risk of losing money. And rarely will any legitimate 
investment opportunity be able to offer risk-free trading. So, I think this ought to have 
appeared too good to be true and should have given Mr W cause for concern. However, he 
doesnt appear to have acted upon any such concerns to determine whether the things he 
was being promised were legitimate.
I can also see that Mr W wasnt entirely honest with Barclays when it spoke to him about the 
payments, as there were occasions where he told it that the investment had been 
recommended to him by friends, and that he had checked to make sure it was authorised by 
the FCA, which wasnt true. This would have given Barclays reassurance that he likely 
wasnt being scammed, meaning Mr Ws actions potentially stopped the bank from being 
able to prevent any further loss.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr Ws actions and failure to question what he was being 
promised contributed to his loss, such that it would be fair and reasonable for him to share 
responsibility (50%) with Barclays. So, I dont think the bank has acted unfairly by refusing to 
refund more than this in these circumstances. 
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr W reported the fraud. However, I can see that it raised chargeback disputes for all the 
debit card payments made, as well as reaching out the beneficiary banks to try and recover 
the money sent by bank transfer. The chargeback claims were successfully defended and, 
apart from the money Barclays was able to recover from Swissborg, it was told by the other 
receiving banks that no funds remained. So, I dont think there was anything further it could 
have done to recover the money Mr W lost.
I understand that Mr W is also unhappy with the way Barclays handled his fraud claim, as it closed his investigation without telling him, and also didnt inform him that the credits applied 
to his account were only temporary. In this regard, I acknowledge that Barclays service 
could have been better, and I appreciate there were delays in the bank finalising its 
investigation and settlement in response to the fraud claim raised. However, Barclays has 
offered £200 compensation in recognition of its poor handling of Mr Ws claim which, overall, 
Im satisfied is fair and in line with the sort of award our service would make in these 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking Barclays to pay any further compensation.
The only aspect of Barclays settlement offer that wouldnt be considered fair is that it failed 
to pay 8% simple interest on the £8,078.50 that was held in the banks sundry account. 
Barclays hasnt been able to show which guidelines it says it relied on that prevented it from 
paying these funds to Mr W directly, and Im satisfied it ought reasonably to have taken 
action to pay the money to his own account much sooner than the six months it eventually 
took. Therefore, as a result of Barclays actions (or inactions in this case), Mr W has been 
deprived of this money, so Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date it received the funds from Swissborg until the 
date it was finally paid to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay 8% simple interest per year on £8,078.50 from the date it received these funds 
into its sundry account until the date it was paid to Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman