DRN-3802227
The complaint
Mr F complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited unfairly handled his request to reject a 
car and cancel a credit agreement.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr F entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a used 
car. Mr F says he was informed that he could return the car within seven days and cancel 
the agreement if he found it wasnt suitable. 
Mr F says that after driving the car, he decided that it wasnt going to be suitable and he had 
some concerns about its performance. He contacted the supplying dealership to return it but 
says he was told that, as he had driven more than 200 miles in the car, he couldnt now 
return it.
Mr F complained to Oodle who arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
engineer, from a third-party company, to ascertain if the car had any faults. Mr F was 
unhappy about the choice of the company that was to be used for this inspection and so, 
instead, arranged his own through a garage.
Oodle said that the report provided by the garage, used by Mr F, wasnt sufficiently detailed 
to establish if the car had any faults and so asked him to get a further one undertaken, which 
Mr F declined.
In July 2022, Oodle sent Mr F its final decision letter about his complaint. It said it wasnt 
upholding his complaint as there were no grounds for him to reject the car.
Mr F discovered that the car had an outstanding recall notice from the manufacturer due to 
its condition which had been in place since March 2021, and he said the car shouldnt have 
supplied to him in these circumstances. He asked to reject it and be compensated for his 
losses. Mr F also complained to this service.
During this services investigation Oodle retrospectively reviewed Mr Fs complaint and said 
that it agreed it would be fair for him to reject the car and for the agreement to be unwound. 
Oodle said that, although Mr F had made some limited use of the car, it wouldnt require him 
to make any of the monthly contractual payments. It also offered Mr F £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to him having to deal with the faulty car. 
Mr F disagreed with Oodles offer of compensation. He asked that certain losses should be 
reimbursed to him, as well as compensation. Mr F said it would be fair for Oodle to pay him 
£1,200 for legal fees that he had incurred over disputing that he was not entitled to reject the 
car and unwind the agreement; £165.69 to cover the cost of car tax and insurance for the car 
and £1,300 for loss of income due to the stress of the matter impacting on his mental health 
and leading to him being unable to work.
Our investigator said that she thought Oodles offer of £200 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances and she wouldnt ask it to do more. She said that Mr F had chosen to seek 
legal advice and so it wasnt reasonable for Oodle to cover that cost. Our investigator also 
said that any car needed to be insured and taxed while in Mr Fs possession and she hadnt 
seen that hed had to tax and insure a second car, so she was satisfied  Oodle didnt need to 
refund this amount. 
In respect of Mr Fs health, our investigator said that, although she was sympathetic to his 
situation, she couldnt reasonably say that Oodles handling of this matter had been the sole 
cause of Mr Fs ill health. She said because of this it wouldnt be fair to ask Oodle to cover 
his loss of income.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view. He said he thought the level of compensation 
was unfair when looking at what Oodle had put him through in the way it handled his request 
to reject the car. He said there had been a significant impact on his mental health which had 
led to him requiring time away from work.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle has accepted that Mr F was entitled to reject the car and for the credit agreement to 
be unwound and, in light of that, Im going to concentrate on what would be fair settlement 
rather than whether the car was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr F says there has been a significant impact on him due to the time it took Oodle to agree 
he could hand the car back. Ive seen that Mr F consulted solicitors to assist him following 
Oodles original decision not to uphold his complaint. Mr F has asked that these costs are 
reimbursed by Oodle. But while I can appreciate why Mr F may have sought legal advice, I 
agree with our investigator that this was Mr Fs choice to do so. And legal assistance isnt 
needed to bring a complaint to us as we are an alternative dispute resolution service. So, in 
these circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Oodle to refund these costs 
to Mr F.
Mr F has also asked that costs of the car tax and insurance, for the period he had the car, be 
reimbursed. I appreciate Mr F got limited use from the car as he stopped using it in June 
2022, and kept it parked on his drive. However, under the agreement it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to ensure the car was kept taxed and insured. The insurance provided Mr F 
with protection should anything have happened to the car while it was in his possession. And 
further, these costs would arise with any car and, as Mr F doesnt appear to have had to 
duplicate them with another car at the same time, Im satisfied its fair for Mr F to pay them. 
Ive seen Oodle hasnt required Mr F to pay any of the contractual monthly rentals that would 
have been due while he had the car. So, Im not going to ask Oodle to refund the amount of 
£165.69 to Mr F.
I appreciate Mr F feels very strongly that the actions of Oodle have led to him being unable 
to work due to the stress he was feeling over the potential financial implications of not being 
able to reject the car, and the way his complaint was being handled. I have carefully 
considered the medical evidence that has been provided. While Im sorry that Mr F has been 
unwell and required medication and therapy to assist him at this difficult time Im afraid, on 
the evidence that I have seen, I cant reasonably say that Oodle has been the sole cause of 
Mr F being unable to work. The medical records are brief in detail and suggest he was 
struggling to deal with other issues including financial difficulties. So, there isnt sufficient 
information that would justify me requiring Oodle to reimburse Mr F for his loss of earnings.However, I do accept that Mr F was caused distress and inconvenience dealing with this 
faulty car and so I think compensation is due. Im satisfied that, in these circumstances, that 
£200 is fair and reasonable and Im therefore partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking Oodle Financial Services Limited to pay Mr F £200 compensation for having to 
deal with the faulty car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint in that I think its fair 
and reasonable for Oodle Financial Services Limited to pay Mr F compensation for his 
having to deal with the fauolty car. Im therefore asking Oodle Financial Services Limited to 
pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to deal 
with the faulty car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman