DRN-2843708
The complaint
Ms H complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of her motor insurance complaint.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms H has strong views about what has happened. I want to her assure Ive 
read and considered everything shes said very carefully but my decision focusses on what I 
see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA accepted there were various parts of the claim where they failed to act in a 
timely manner, or couldve acted more efficiently
So far, AXA has paid Ms H paid a total of £700 compensation over separate 
complaints handled prior to the claims conclusion in December 2020. AXA has also 
refunded the excess fee paid by Ms H
However, I think further compensation is warranted. Following the claim conclusion 
Ms H has continued to experience issues relating to the claim such as receiving 
incorrect no claims details from AXA and being asked to provide proof shed paid the 
excess before AXA refunded it 
Given the issues Ms H had already experienced throughout her claim, and the 
inconvenience she has been caused, I think AXA couldve done more to make sure 
there were no further issues  and that Ms C didnt incur further stress in having to 
contact AXA to chase or correct information
I acknowledge Ms Hs comments she is seeking significant compensation and that 
the amount offered does not incentivise AXA to improve in the future. However, when 
awarding compensation, I need to consider each complaint on its own merits. With 
this mind, I think AXA should increase the compensation paid by a further £150, to a 
total of £850, as this fairly reflects the inconvenience Ms H has been caused  
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Plc should put matters right as Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman