DRN-4197480
The complaint
Mr V complains about two home credit loans. He says Morses Club PLC irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision where I set out the details of this complaint. That decision 
forms part of my final decision and should be read in conjunction with it.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I was inclined to reach different conclusions to 
the adjudicator. The key aspect of my provisional decision are set out in italics below;
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint. Morses has agreed it shouldnt have
lent loan 2 as there isnt a continuing dispute about this loan, Ive focussed my decision on
loan 1.
The adjudicator placed a lot of weight on Morses cover letter to this service where it said:
For loans issued after the 26th February 2018 we would always verify the customer income
using data provided by the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA), should we have been unable
to verify the data via this method, there was a requirement for the Agent to verify the
customers income through appropriate documentation which we will have recorded on our
system (should you require these document reference numbers please let us know).
The above statement from Morses in my opinion doesnt mean it requests banks statements
as a matter of course but says it will do so if it has been unable to verify the data through the
credit reference agencies.
When this service requested further information from Morses it said it had provided all the
documents it had and said it didnt request Mr Vs bank statements when it lent. Morses
provided the results of a credit search and information of the figures it used to work out
Mr Vs income and living costs.
In this early stage of the lending relationship, I wouldnt have expected Morses to take its
checks further by requesting bank statements. I say this because, Morses checks showed
Mr Vs verified income was around £550 per week and his expenses were around £220, this
left him with sufficient disposable income to repay loan 1. Ive also looked at the results of
Mr Vs credit search and there wasnt anything that I think should have prompted Morses to
take its checks further. This was Mr Vs first loan with Morses (I havent evidence of any
previous lending relationship) and the repayment was a small fraction of his income, the
reasonable checks showed he was able to repay the loan over its term.
I gave both parties an opportunity to respond with further evidence and comments. The 
deadline has now passed. Morses responded to say it had nothing further to add but there 
has been no response from Mr V or his representative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the information and as neither party has provided any further 
evidence or comments that changes my mind, I see no reason to depart from the findings in 
my provisional decision.
I dont think it was wrong for Morses to lend loan 1 and as it has agreed it shouldnt have lent 
loan 2, it needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what Morses needs to do;
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2,
if it results in an overpayment, Morses should add interest at 8% per year simple on 
the payments from the date they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding Morses should agree a suitable repayment plan 
with Mr V to repay the capital borrowed,
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Vs credit file once the loan
has been fully repaid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must give Mr V a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Vs complaint in part and direct Morses Club PLC 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman