DRN-2003567
The complaint
Miss L complains that she was given incorrect advice by Computershare Investor Services 
Plc (the business) when she called about surrendering her investment.  
She wants compensation for any financial losses suffered and compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this. 
What happened
Miss L was a part of an employee Save As You Earn (SAYE) plan  whilst she was 
employed at an international (UK) based bank  which was due to mature on 1 November 
2019. However, Miss L was made redundant on 2 August 2019, and was sent a good 
leaver pack at the end of the month.
 
On 10 September 2019, Miss L called the business to ask about completing her leaver form 
of direction. She says she was given incorrect advice, even though she made it very clear 
that if the price was to drop, she didnt want to be at risk of losing any money she paid in. 
Nevertheless, it seems Miss L gave the business instructions to exercise the options granted 
to her under the plan. She says the adviser led her to select the option to exercise her 
options, and purchase shares, which she now knows meant her contributions were at risk 
from share price fluctuations until she sold the shares. 
Miss L also says that she was led to believe that she could sell her shares as soon as she 
exercised her options but later found out that she had to wait until she received the share 
certificate before she could do this, and that this may involve additional costs. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it was one our service 
could consider. In summary, he said:
It was reasonably clear that Miss L didnt understand the SAYE plan that she was 
participating in, and all she wanted was some advice from the business in relation 
to the plan and her options.  
As the plan provider and administrator, the business wasnt required to provide 
advice, that was the responsibility of the seller  her employer  with whom she had 
that relationship. 
The business commercial relationship with Miss L only began when shed exercised 
your option, which is why it initially questioned whether we even had jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint, before it consented to us looking into the merits of this 
complaint. 
The business responsibility was to ensure that it didnt provide Miss L with any 
incorrect information in the lead up to her option which it didnt. 
Although Miss L says she had two calls with the business, hes been able to find only 
one. Its possible the other call was made to another business or wasnt recorded. 
Nevertheless, the business provided the following information which was correct:
oMiss L could only make one more contribution towards the plan, which shed 
have to do in October 2019.
oIf she exercised her option itd mean shed be buying the shares at her option 
price, and shed get a share certificate.
oShed have to wait for the share certificate before she could sell her shares.
The business didnt advise at any point that when Miss L exercised her option, she 
couldnt lose money and there was no conversation about what the fees might be to 
sell her certificated shares. 
Although Miss L says the business told her how to fill in the leaver form of direction, it 
was her responsibility to ensure that it was filled out correctly, and the form reflected 
what she wanted. 
Miss L chose 20 October 2019 as the date she wanted her option to be exercised on, 
and for the business to wait until she paid her last premium in October. 
The form provided the correct information including:
o"Exercise Options = All the savings and any bonus (where applicable) in your 
sharesave account will be used to buy shares at the option price and the 
share certificates(s) will be posted to your registered address.
o"Please allow up to 28 days from your requested exercise date for your share 
certificate to be received".
Miss L filled out the form and the business followed her instructions. Even if he was 
provided with the second call, hed find it hard to say the business had done anything 
wrong. 
If Miss L didnt understand what she was doing by signing the form, its not 
something he can hold the business responsible for. 
Miss L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, she made the following points:
Her understanding of the plan was correct (at the time being employed by the bank), 
in that shed receive options and she could withdraw her funds at any point. 
Both her calls were with the business, and she made clear that she didnt want to be 
at risk of losing money. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind, and he reassured Miss L that hed looked at the case properly.
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss L says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has behaved unreasonably.   
But before I explain why, its important for me to recognise Miss Ls strength of feeling about 
this matter. Im sorry to hear that she was made redundant after 15 years of service with her 
employer. 
Miss L has provided detailed submissions to support her complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
As the product provider and administrator, I dont think that the business was obliged to offer 
any advice. I note Miss L didnt fully understand her options with regards to what she was 
going to do with her shares. However, it was under a duty to answer Miss Ls questions and 
to provide correct information, which on the face of the evidence Im satisfied it did. 
Whatevers Miss Ls understanding of the plan, it may be something that she needs to 
discuss with the business responsible for the sale of it, and with whom she may have had a 
potential adviser/advisee relationship, if indeed this was an advised sale. 
In this case Im only looking at the actions of the business and not any third-party, and Im 
satisfied that the business simply did what it was instructed to do. In other words, it acted in 
line with Miss Ls instructions. 
If, however, she misunderstood the nature of what she asked the business to do  because 
of her own understanding/misunderstanding of the plan  its not something I can hold the 
business responsible for. I agree with the investigator that it was Miss Ls responsibility to 
ensure that the form was filled out correctly, and more importantly it reflected what she 
wanted to happen. 
I note Miss L says she was given an incorrect advice, despite her making it very clear that if 
the price was to drop, she didnt want to be at risk of losing any money she paid in. But I 
note she chose 20 October 2019 as the date she wanted her option to be exercised on, and 
for the business to wait until she paid her last premium in October, which was clear from the 
form. I also note the following was made clear on the form:
o"Exercise Options = All the savings and any bonus (where applicable) in your 
share save account will be used to buy shares at the option price and the 
share certificates(s) will be posted to your registered address.
Despite what Miss L says, Im also satisfied that the form made clear that she would have to 
allow 28 days to receive the share certificate, which is what she needed to sell her shares, a 
point which was already made clear to her. 
I note Miss L asked the call operative how long she had to sell her shares once she had the 
share certificate, and she was told there was no time limit. 
Despite what Miss L says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was told that as soon as she 
exercised her option, she could sell her shares, or that she couldnt lose money. The latter 
certainly wasnt something the business had control over. 
I also note that there was no conversation about the dealing fees, in other words a fee to sell 
her certified shares. So, if it wasnt an issue that Miss L asked about, I cant blame the 
business for not pre-empting the question and not providing an answer. 
I appreciate Miss L will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, in the circumstances Im not persuaded the business has done 
anything wrong. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Miss L 
what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman