DRN-2883462
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with previous repairs carried out by Rentokil Insurance Limited (Rentokil)
following claims under his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F has an insurance policy with Rentokil. This provides cover for protection against the
risk of attack to timbers by woodboring insects, wood-rotting fungus, damp and wall tie
corrosion.
Mr F has had a total of four claims for rot under his policy which have been accepted by
Rentokil.
The policy covers the treatment of the rot, but it doesnt cover, amongst other things,
removal and replacement of fixtures or fittings in order to deal with the rot. Mr F says hes
only incurred these costs on the fourth claim because Rentokil didnt carry out previous claim
works correctly.
Mr F has had some of the removal and replacement costs covered by another insurer, but
he wants Rentokil to pay for the remainder, and to compensate him. And he also wants a
guarantee for the works. So he complained to Rentokil. They said each claim was in
isolation and not connected to the previous claim(s). But they offered Mr F £1,000 as a
gesture of goodwill towards the works not covered under his policy.
Mr F was unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that she thought
Rentokil hadnt carried out an effective repair in the previous claim(s). So she said they
should pay Mr F £3,382, which is the shortfall toward removing and replacing fixtures and
fittings that his other insurer hasnt paid for. And she said Mr F should be compensated a
further £500.
Rentokil didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I understand this will disappoint Mr F, Ive reached a 
different outcome to our investigator. Therefore Im issuing a provisional decision to 
allow both parties to comment on my findings, before I reach my final decision.
Firstly, whilst I acknowledge Mr F thinks Rentokil should provide him with a long-term 
written guarantee for the works they completed, this isnt something which the policy 
covers. And its not something Im going to ask Rentokil to provide. But if there are 
future issues with the recent works carried out by Rentokil, then Mr F can raise this 
with them in the first instance  like hes done in this case about the previous repairs.
Mr F has incurred costs for the removal and replacement of fixtures and fittings in 
order for Rentokil to carry out the works under the most recent claim (and previous 
claims). The policy doesnt cover this. So for me to say that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Rentokil to cover these costs, Id need to be persuaded that the costs 
have only been incurred because Rentokil failed to carry out previous works 
effectively.
Mr F has made four claims for rot since 2014. Having looked at the reports carried 
out each time, there have been various conclusions reached on the cause of the rot 
on each occasion.
In the 2014 claim Rentokil concluded there was condensation penetrating though the 
timber at the joints. They also concluded water ingress from the external flashing 
covering the front hip of the rear roof had caused the internal rot.
A claim was again made in July 2015. Rentokil identified that there was an exposed 
timber lintel, which had been the original rear door of the property before it was 
extended. They said that repairs had been carried out to the lead flashing in the 
valley gutter and regular maintenance was important as the area is at risk from 
rainwater ingress.
In June 2016, historical water ingress around the UPVC window was determined as 
the cause of the rot in that claim.
And in 2020, the most recent claim, Rentokil initially discovered rot in floor joists 
shared with the utility room and vestibule below, the adjacent floorboards, wall plates, 
boards and wall strapping. It was also discovered in the bathroom and toilet. But no 
external cause was identified. And in a follow up inspection, after Mr F raised 
concerns about other possible areas, Rentokil were still unable to locate any external 
defect to the building causing the rot, and concluded interstitial condensation was the 
cause.
So whilst I accept that it does appear that rot has occurred in similar areas in Mr Fs 
home, the conclusion reached on why this was happening was different each time 
and in each claim, and works and treatment were undertaken at the time  as 
covered under the policy.
But in the 2020 claim, Rentokil were unable to establish a specific external cause, 
like they were in the previous three claims. And theyve concluded it was 
condensation. And theyve also suggested to Mr F that he install extraction to lower 
the humidity in order to prevent future issues.Rentokil, being a specialist in rot, have also given an explanation around how rot 
attacks occur. Theyve said there is no environment free of spores. And even with 
previous treatment, if there is an ingress of moisture in the right conditions, the timber 
could still be susceptible to attack.
Whilst the rot may have appeared in similar locations, based on the information 
provided and reports determining the different causes, Im unable to conclude that 
the only reason the 2020 claim has arisen is solely due to Rentokils poor works in 
previous claims as Mr F has alleged.
As the policy doesnt cover removal or replacement of fixtures and fittings, and Im 
unable to conclude Rentokil are responsible for the 2020 claim (or others) on the 
basis of poor previous works, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Rentokil 
to cover or contribute towards these costs. So unless anything changes as a result of 
the responses to my provisional decision, Im not minded to ask them to do so. And 
therefore by extension, Im also not minded to ask Rentokil to compensate Mr F, if 
Ive not concluded theyve acted unfairly.
Rentokil had offered Mr F £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill. And did make gestures 
outside the terms in previous claims too. Mr F rejected this most recent gesture on 
the basis he thinks Rentokil are responsible for all the works required.
As Ive outlined, Im not minded to conclude Rentokil has acted unfairly or to direct 
them to do anything more. And if my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional, then itll be for Mr F to decide if he now wanted to accept that gesture 
from Rentokil  theyve confirmed it is still available to Mr F if he now wishes to.
So I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or to direct Rentokil to do anything further.
The responses to my provisional decision
Rentokil responded and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr F responded to say he was disappointed. He said hed had to replace his bathroom 
several times and doesnt think thats acceptable. He maintains that he thinks Rentokil didnt 
carry out previous works correctly and should have done more at the time, and in his view, 
this is why the rot has returned in 2020. He also supplied some additional images of the 
repair works and referred to images submitted previously.
Mr F also says he doesnt think the test method Rentokil carried out was reliable and they 
should use a different method. He also said he still feels he should be compensated by 
Rentokil and they should offer some sort of guarantee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision and whilst I 
appreciate itll disappoint Mr F, I havent changed my mind.
I note Mr F feels that Rentokil should provide a guarantee. But as I outlined in my provisional 
decision, the policy doesnt provide a guarantee for the works that have been carried out. 
But if there are any issues with the works from the 2020 claim, Mr F can raise this with 
Rentokil. Mr F has mentioned previous claims and repairs and he says this shows Rentokil carry out 
poor investigations and works more generally. But here Im considering whether there is 
enough to show that the rot solely returned in 2020 due to Rentokil as alleged. If Mr F is 
unhappy with other aspects of the repairs or claims, hed need to raise this with Rentokil in 
the first instance.
Mr F has said that in his opinion he still thinks more extensive works shouldve been carried 
out in previous claims and the works that were carried out werent done correctly to stop the 
rot returning in 2020. And he also says that the photos hes sent support his position. 
I dont dispute that Mr F has needed to make a number of claims for rot (and has incurred 
costs which arent covered by the policy). Ive seen the images Mr F has submitted which do 
show rot damage and previous repairs. But whether there is rot or not isnt in dispute. 
What is key here is whether there is enough based on the information provided to show that 
the most recent claim in 2020 is solely due to repairs carried out by Rentokil previously  
and that this is the only reason that the rot returned in 2020 and another claim needed to be 
made. 
As I said in my provisional decision, rot by its very nature can occur for various reasons. 
Rentokil has explained that there is no environment free of spores, and if the moisture 
content is raised to certain levels, there is a real chance of fungal attack and decay, even on 
treated timbers. And the images do show rot in similar areas to those previously. But what 
they dont demonstrate is that this is solely because of Rentokils previous repairs rather 
than for another reason i.e. interstitial condensation - as concluded by Rentokil in 2020. 
Whilst I do note Mr Fs opinion on things here, and the images hes provided, there also 
arent any specialist reports which show the rot only returned because of previous repairs, 
rather than due to condensation as concluded by Rentokil. So whilst I agree there is rot, 
based on everything both parties have provided, I dont think there is enough to show that 
the 2020 claim solely occurred because of poor previous works by Rentokil as alleged.
I do sympathise that Mr F has incurred costs each time his property has suffered from rot 
damage and hes had to make a claim. But these costs arent covered under his policy. 
Another insurer has covered some of these costs in the 2020 claim, which does leave a 
shortfall which Mr F has had to cover. But as I explained in my provisional decision, for me to 
say that Rentokil should pay the costs incurred in 2020, which arent covered under his 
policy, Id need to be satisfied they were incurred solely due to Rentokils poor previous 
works. But for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision and above, and whilst I know 
itll disappoint Mr F, Ive not reached that conclusion based on the information provided by 
both parties. 
If Mr F has any expert or specialist reports or other evidence which he thinks demonstrates 
Rentokil are solely responsible for the rot in 2020, then he should submit this to Rentokil for 
consideration. But based on the information provided so far, which includes the images and 
Mr Fs opinion on things, Im not persuaded its been demonstrated the rot solely returned in 
2020 due to Rentokil. So consequently, Im not going to direct Rentokil to cover the shortfall 
in costs which Mr Fs other insurer hasnt paid for.
Mr F has also commented on the tests Rentokil carries out and that he thinks they should 
use an alternative method. But its not my role to decide which testing methods Rentokil 
should use more generally. And as I said, the information provided, doesnt persuade me 
that the rot only returned in 2020 because of the previous works completed by Rentokil.I appreciate Mr M still feels that Rentokil should compensate him. But Ive not concluded that 
theyve acted unfairly, so Im not going to direct them to pay compensation. But as I outlined 
in my provisional decision, Rentokil has said that the £1,000 gesture of goodwill is still 
available to Mr F, so if he now wishes to accept that, hell need to contact Rentokil directly.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman