DRN-3204074
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was given incorrect information regarding the end date of her 
finance agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
What happened
Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with VWFS. She says 
she contacted VWFS in 2019 and was advised that her last payment would be in February 
2020.
Miss H says she had applied for a cheaper loan with another credit provider so she could 
pay off the outstanding balance under her agreement with VWFS. But when she was told 
that her last payment was due in February 2021, she decided not to proceed with the other 
loan. Following this, Miss H cancelled her direct debit payments.
Miss H says she later received a letter from VWFS advising her that her last payment would 
be in March 2020. 
Miss H complained to VWFS. She was unhappy about the incorrect information shed been 
given and about the impact on her credit file.
In response, VWFS said it couldnt locate any telephone calls made by her in 2019, nor 
could it find any letters in which Miss H had been advised that the last payment would be 
March 2020. VWFS said the agreement would end on 1 May 2020 and that payments were 
outstanding for March and April 2020. It said that because Miss H had cancelled her direct 
debit, it had reported missing payments on her credit file.
Miss H was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence that VWFS had 
provided incorrect information and said the final payment was set out in the finance 
agreement.
Miss H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information to see what contact Miss H had with VWFS during the 
agreement. I can see that in January 2019, a dealer requested an early settlement figure on 
behalf of Miss H. VWFS quoted a settlement figure of £2,738.55 which was valid until 7 
February 2019.
Miss H has said that she took out another loan with the intention of settling the finance. But 
she says that when she was told that her last payment was February 2020, she decided not 
to proceed with the other loan.
Ive looked at VWFSs notes but I cant see anything to suggest that it provided this 
information to Miss H. After the dealer requested the quote in January 2019, the next record 
of contact is January 2019. In this call, Miss H asked when her agreement was due to end 
and VWFS advised her that it would end on 1 May 2020.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think theres any evidence to suggest that VWFS provided 
incorrect information about the agreement end date.
Its clear from the agreement itself that the final payment was due in May 2020. Ive no 
reason to think that Miss H wasnt in possession of a copy of the agreement, so I think she 
ought to have known the correct agreement end date.
I can see that Miss H missed payments in March ad April 2020. Miss H was responsible for 
making payments due under the agreement, so Im unable to say that VWFS did anything 
wrong when it reported the missed payments on Miss Hs credit file.
I appreciate that Miss H feels very strongly about things. However, theres no evidence to 
suggest that VWFS provided incorrect information to her. Because of this, Im unable to 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman