DRN-3815490
The complaint
Miss Q complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not inform her that her card had been 
cancelled and they restricted her account.
What happened
Miss Q says that she was preparing for a procedure abroad and she was due to travel on 12 
March 2022. She says she informed HSBC that she intended to make a £7,000 bill payment 
and the date she would be travelling. She says that during a separate phone call on 10 
March, about a subscription, the call handler cancelled her card without her consent. She 
said she had intended to pay for a transaction online for her procedure, but the transaction 
failed. Miss Q rang HSBC, and she was told the card had been cancelled. She says she 
objected to this as she was only told the transaction had been cancelled and not her card. 
The call handler said she would listen to the call where her card was cancelled and ring her 
back, but Miss Q did not receive a call back.
Miss Q says she went overseas with no means to pay for anything. She found out her 
account had been blocked without warning as HSBC had blocked the account due to 
suspicions of fraud on her account. She says it took over three hours to unblock her account 
and make the payment. She said the calls on 16 March cost her over £300 in phone bills as 
she was ringing from abroad. Miss Q says the most important consequence of what 
happened is that her procedure was cancelled initially due to the lack of payment, and after 
the funds had cleared, the time to complete the procedure had lapsed, meaning this needed 
to be booked three months later. She estimated her costs to be roughly £10,000. Miss Q 
made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC said they had reviewed the call on 10 March. They said the call handler from the fraud 
department confirmed that the card would be stopped and she would receive the new one in 
4-6 business days, which Miss Q agreed to on the call. They credited her account with £30 
to make up for the inconvenience caused. Miss Q brought her complaint to our service. 
HSBC increased the compensation from £30 to offer a total of £100 and to pay for her phone 
costs on 16 March 2022, if she was able to provide evidence of these costs.
Our investigator thought the offer from HSBC was fair. He said HSBC took actions to place 
the block on the account which were in line with their terms and conditions, so they didnt act 
unfairly in doing so. He said having listened to the calls, Miss Q shouldve been aware the 
card was being cancelled and she wouldnt be able to use it. Miss Q asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint and she said it wasnt made clear to her that her card 
would be cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Miss Q that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their security procedures (such as when to cancel and reissue a card or to restrict an 
account). It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial 
businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case 
basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about 
whether a financial business has failed their customer.
HSBCs terms and conditions allow them to stop payment devices and/or services including 
blocking an account if fraud/unauthorised transactions are suspected to allow them to try 
and protect an account from any unauthorised transactions being charged to the card. HSBC 
had concerns about transactions on Miss Qs account so they rang her on 10 March 2022.
Ive listened to the call on 10 March 2022. At the end of the call, the fraud call handler says 
alright then, I am stopping this card ending (last four digits) and a new card will be delivered 
in the next four to six business days, to your registered address, that is (Miss Qs address), 
Miss Q replies ok, thats fine, thank you, bye..bye. So I am satisfied that the call handler 
was clear that the card would be stopped and that a new card would be issued, to which 
Miss Q agreed to this. So I cant agree that Miss Q was not aware that her card would be 
stopped. 
Later on 11 March, Miss Q attempted to make a payment online for £7,000. But this also 
was flagged due to HSBCs security controls. I can see a memo HSBC have placed on her 
customer notes at 18:32pm to say they had attempted to ring Miss Q about this, but they 
hadnt been able to speak to her. As they had not been able to speak to her about this 
transaction, another memo was left on her notes at 00:42 to say that the transaction had 
been reversed as they had been unable to speak to her when they rang, and she had not 
called back. This then restricted access to her account, which again was in line with their 
terms and conditions, so I cant say that HSBC were unreasonable to do this when they had 
concerns her account may have been compromised.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause distress and inconvenience 
to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
This led to a number of phone calls Miss Q made to HSBC on 16 March, when she would 
have been overseas at this point.  Miss Q rang them at 11:53am about the restrictions and 
the call handler transferred her to a different department. But the new call handler was not 
able to assist her and they transferred her to another department. Although the call handler 
identified herself as working in the fraud department, she informed Miss Q that she had to 
transfer her to another fraud department, which led Miss Q to become distressed as she had 
already been transferred to who she thought would be able to lift the restrictions on her 
account. 
The next call handler also was unable to help Miss Q. Initially he was going to transfer her to 
another department, but he disconnected the call due to language she used on the call. Miss 
Q rang HSBC back later in the day at 16:27pm. The call handler spoke to her to unlock her 
internet access which he was able to do after going through security questions with her and 
then transferred her to a different department so she could make a payment. The next call 
handler takes details of the international payment but he then he said he needed to speak to 
the international transfer team and transferred Miss Q to him. The international transfer was 
then completed on this call.
After listening to the calls on 16 March 2022, Im persuaded that HSBC did let Miss Q down 
on occasions. I say this as while they were entitled to restrict the account in order to protect the account, which Im satisfied they acted within the terms and conditions to do so  even if 
Miss Q may not see it this way, they transferred her to incorrect departments and 
inconvenienced her by doing so. This resulted in Miss Q spending much longer on the phone 
than she should have done. In addition to this, I listened to a call from 11 March where the 
call handler indicated that she would ring Miss Q back after she had listened to a call 
recording regarding her card being stopped. But Ive seen no evidence that the call handler 
did this. 
So I agree that the initial compensation that HSBC originally paid Miss Q of £30 would not 
reflect the impact that the inconvenience of the poor customer service would have had on 
her. HSBC have since offered her an extra £70 to total £100 compensation. Im persuaded 
the extra compensation is reasonable to take into account the inconvenience they caused 
her, especially when she was overseas. I also think its reasonable that if Miss Q can provide 
them evidence of her call costs, that they refund the calls she made while abroad on 16 
March. 
I say this as if the first call handler was able to act upon her instructions, then these could 
have been acted upon in a timelier manner. Instead, she was kept on hold while before 
being transferred to incorrect departments, which would have increased her call costs, so Im 
not persuaded it is fair she should incur these costs when it was HSBC who were 
responsible for her being on the phone for as long as she was. So it follows that HSBC 
should pay Miss Q an extra £70 for inconvenience and they should pay her call costs to 
them from the calls she made on 16 March 2022 if she can provide evidence of these costs. 
But I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Miss Q an extra £70 and to pay her 
call costs to them on 16 March 2022, (upon her providing evidence of the call costs) to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss Q an extra £70 and to pay her 
call costs to them on 16 March 2022, (upon her providing evidence of the call costs). But I 
dont require them to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman