DRN-1943318
 
Complaint          
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1999. They were sold PPI in connection 
with this mortgage at the same time.
The benefit of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs C. It would have paid 50% of 
the overall monthly benefit if Mr C was off work sick or became unemployed and it would 
have paid out in the same way if Mrs C was off work sick or lost her job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case explaining why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Cs complaint. I asked both parties to provide me with anything further they wanted me to 
consider. Mr and Mrs C confirmed they had nothing further to add and Lloyds have agreed to 
settle Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in line with my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
As I have not been provided with any further evidence to consider and Lloyds have since 
agreed to settle the complaint, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for the same reasons 
as those set out in my provisional decision. I have copied my findings below and they form 
part of my final decision:
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs C to take PPI. This means they would have had to 
take adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. I dont think Lloyds 
took the steps that they should have to check that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C 
and I dont think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C.
Mr C has provided evidence of the various other insurance policies he had in place at the 
time of the sale. Although not all of them are relevant, there are two policies in particular 
which I consider meant that Mr C did not have a need for PPI. The first policy was a sickness income plus plan which would have started to pay out 
immediately if Mr C was off work due to sickness or an accident. The full rate of the benefit 
would have been paid for 12 months and would have reduced to half following that. It would 
have paid out until Mr C recovered from the illness/accident. The PPI would have paid out 
for 12 months and had a 2 month deferral period. The benefit from the sickness income 
plus plan was higher than 50% of the overall PPI benefit which Mr C would have been 
entitled to. This was the case even when the benefit of this other policy reduced to half from 
the second year. So it would have paid out potentially for a much longer period of time and 
at a higher rate than the PPI.
The other relevant policy was an income protection policy. This had a deferral period of 6 
months but would have paid out indefinitely after this time and could have paid up to 75% of 
Mr Cs salary (subject to maximums). The benefit of this policy was far greater than the 
benefit Mr C would have received from the PPI policy. I also note that when calculating the 
loss of earnings for the income protection policy, the PPI benefit would have counted as 
income. So the PPI could potentially have reduced the benefit of this existing policy.
There is nothing in the documents that Lloyds have provided from the time of the sale which 
show that these other policies were taken into consideration when recommending PPI to Mr 
and Mrs C or why PPI was still suitable despite these other policies. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I think its clear that Mr C had sufficient existing cover in place for accident and 
sickness and that the cover under the PPI policy largely duplicated for an extra cost and 
lesser benefit, cover which he already had in place. 
I appreciate that Mr C did not have separate unemployment cover with these other policies, 
but I note the advisors comments on the loan assessment form from the time of the sale. 
The advisor specifically commented that he couldnt foresee that Mr C would be out of 
business in the near future given the type of work he carried out, the demand for it and the 
amount of orders he had in place. Of course I appreciate that unemployment could still 
happen during the course of the mortgage which is a long term commitment, but there is 
nothing in the documents to explain why the advisor felt that Mr C needed unemployment 
cover at the time of the sale when he clearly considered Mr C to be busy with work in the 
foreseeable future.
I also appreciate that Mrs C wasnt covered under the other policies. However, Mrs C was 
entitled to sick pay from her employer. Although this wasnt for as long as what she would 
have been entitled to under the policy, I note that Mr Cs income was substantially higher 
than that of Mrs C and that it was Mr Cs income which would have primarily benefitted from 
protection. Despite this, the policy benefit was split equally between Mr and Mrs C. There is 
no explanation as to why the benefit split was recommended in this way. 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think that PPI should have been 
recommended to Mr and Mrs C as it wasnt of good value for money in their particular 
circumstances
So I currently think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs C this PPI policy. 
Fair compensation
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
 
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman