DRN-3963554
The complaint
Ms F complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited in 
relation to her home emergency policy. 
What happened
In late 2021, Ms F contacted British Gas about an intermittent problem with her boiler. She 
says she could not always get hot water, there was a clicking noise and a slow leak. British 
Gas sent an engineer around. Ms F says he told her the boiler appeared to be working and 
the leak couldnt be repaired because the part needed was obsolete. 
Ms F says she had to remind the engineer to complete the paperwork and he left quickly 
after doing so. When she looked at what hed written after he left, she saw hed noted 
nothing about the leaking water pipe.
A couple of weeks later, Ms F contacted British Gas and raised concerns that a corroded 
pipe hadnt been spotted during her annual inspection. Ms F says that when a British Gas 
representative called her to discuss her complaint, she was told that there were only two 
parts still available for her boiler, neither of which she needed. 
Ms F arranged for her boiler to be replaced by a third party. She says the engineer who 
replaced it commented about the dust that had built up in the internal chamber. Ms F says 
the engineer told her this was dangerous and could cause products of combustion to be 
inhaled through porous corrosion. She says she was also told that the corrosion on the pipes 
should have been picked up in a much earlier inspection.
Ms F raised further concerns with British Gas about the above. She also complained that 
shed been misled into continuing with the policy for several years. She said if shed been 
made aware there were so few parts available for her boiler, she would have cancelled her 
policy and set the money aside to replace her boiler when it broke for good.
British Gas said it had acted in line with the terms of the policy. If it agreed to cover a boiler 
but warned it might be difficult to find replacement parts, it would do what it can, within 
reason to repair it. It said it would pay Ms F £100 by cheque as a goodwill payment, which 
was the equivalent of what Ms F had paid since her last renewal. It said there was no record 
of British Gas or a third party engineer raising a report with the Health and Safety Executive.
There was further correspondence between Ms F and British Gas. She raised concerns 
about the customer service shed received and asked a number of questions relating to the 
terms of the policy, availability of parts and the issues with her boiler. Ms F said she hadnt 
cashed the £100 cheque British Gas had sent her, as she didnt accept it by way of final 
resolution. She suggested British Gas pay her £2,000 to compensate her for what she 
believed to be multiple failings.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Ms Fs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Fs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Ms F I have considered all of her points, even if Ive not addressed each 
of them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of her 
complaint.
Availability of parts
The terms of the policy say:
If we cant get hold of the parts we may need to cancel your agreement (or part of it). If 
weve agreed to cover a boiler or appliance but warned you that it might be difficult to find 
replacement parts, well do what we can within reason to repair it.
British Gas says engineers had been recommending a new boiler back to at least 2015 due 
to the age, efficiency and parts availability. It says it also mentioned it on renewal documents 
issued from 2018 to 2021.
On the most recent renewal document (dated July 2021) it says:
Our records show that your boiler is (make and model). Your boilers manufacturer stopped 
making your particular model of boiler a while ago. Theyre still making the most important 
parts for your boiler, some other parts are becoming difficult to source. This means we may 
not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our best to keep it running for as 
long as possible. In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund 
back dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement  
whichevers the most recent
Ms F has acknowledged being told her boiler was on the restricted parts list at annual 
inspections for many years. But she says she asked each year whether it was worth 
continuing with the policy and she was reassured that even though the manufacturer wasnt 
making original parts for her boiler, there were still plenty of generic parts available and not 
to worry. Shes also commented on the wording most important parts in the renewal 
documents.
Ms F says that when she spoke to British Gas in December 2021, she was told only two 
parts were still available for her boiler. Shes expressed concern that British Gas hadnt 
checked the availability of parts when saying the most important parts were available.
British Gas says that it isnt able to provide a list of all parts that were available for Ms Fs 
boiler. It says that when a part becomes obsolete the manufacturer notifies British Gas who 
attempts to purchase the remaining stock. This ensures it has the best possible chance of 
providing parts for a longer period of time and allows it to continue servicing and repairing 
older appliances. It says it wasnt able to carry out repairs on Ms Fs boiler because the 
specific parts required have ceased to be available from the manufacturer. 
British Gas says there is an agreement for manufacturers to supply parts for a minimum of 
eight to ten years after cessation of their boilers, and Ms Fs type of boiler stopped being 
manufactured in 1994. So, I can understand why Ms F believes that the policy was 
unsuitable for several years before it ended.
However, British Gas says reduced parts alone doesnt mean cover cannot be provided. It 
just carries more risk as time passes of repairs no longer being possible. British Gas says it doesnt have a recording of the call in which Ms F says she was told there 
were only two parts available for her boiler. I dont doubt Ms Fs recollection of what she was 
told, but I havent seen evidence to show me precisely when each boiler part became 
obsolete. Even if I was persuaded that most of the parts had been obsolete for many years, I 
dont think this necessarily means that British Gas wouldnt have been able to fix her boiler if 
there had been a different issue. It might have been able to use a generic part or it may not 
have required a part at all. 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Ms F was made aware that some parts werent 
available in 2015 and in subsequent visits. And I think the information on the renewal 
documents also made Ms F aware there was a risk that British Gas might not be able to fix 
her boiler, while doing its best to keep it running as long as possible. 
However, Ms F has also provided a note of a conversation she had with British Gas in 2015, 
which says that a supervisor reassured her there was enough stock of all parts to fix her 
boiler and British Gas would notify her if it ran out of any of the parts. 
British Gas says it doesnt have a note or recording of the call, which isnt surprising given 
the time thats passed. But Im persuaded by Ms Fs contemporaneous note that she was 
likely to have been given misleading information from British Gas during this conversation. 
So, I think it would have been confusing and upsetting for Ms F to find that a number of parts 
for her boiler were unlikely to be available, when she had expected to be notified when they 
became obsolete. And I think it would be fair for British Gas to pay Ms F some compensation 
for this.
Annual services
Ms F says the engineer who fitted her new boiler told her that the leaking was due to 
corrosion on the pipe that had been building up for a long period of time. Shes raised 
concerns that British Gas didnt inform her of this when annual services took place. She says 
if she had known about it earlier, she might have been able to get the pipe valve or section 
replaced, potentially avoiding the leak and need to replace the boiler. 
British Gas says corrosion happens over a long period of time and was due to the age of the 
appliance and condensation and cannot be repaired. It says the first breakdown visit was in 
November 2021. The valve which was leaking could have been replaced but the part was 
obsolete. It says an alternative was available but fitting the part risked damaging the boiler 
and making it unusable.
 
British Gas says the corrosion wasnt a safety concern prior to the boiler being replaced, 
although it could have led to safety concerns in the future. It says the leak wasnt the reason 
the boiler required replacing. The main fault was the heat exchanger which was obsolete.
 
Ms F says she wouldnt have replaced the boiler if the only issue was the heat exchanger. 
She says that when the British Gas engineer visited regarding the breakdown, she had 
heating throughout but she only had hot water some of the time. She says she could have 
continued using the boiler and put up with an unreliable supply of hot water if she wished to. 
I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that British Gas should have replaced part 
of the pipe or valve after observing corrosion during annual service visits. In any event, I 
dont think it would have made a difference to Ms F needing to replace the boiler when she 
did.
I appreciate Ms Fs main reason for getting the boiler replaced was the leak. However, the 
paperwork the British Gas engineer completed during the visit in November 2021 says: Boiler currently working, fault description points to heat ex being blocked advised part is 
obsolete. 
I acknowledge that Ms F says the heat exchanger wasnt mentioned to her in the visit. 
However, British Gas says the heat exchanger was obsolete and I havent seen any 
evidence to contradict this. I dont think Ms F could have continued to use the boiler for much 
longer with the faulty heat exchanger, as this is an essential part. So, on balance, I think    
Ms F would have needed to replace the boiler, regardless of the pipe corrosion.
Ms F has also complained that British Gas allowed dust to build up in the internal 
combustion chamber of the boiler. She says she was told by the engineer who fitted her new 
boiler, it was potentially dangerous as it could lead to porous corrosion and allow products of 
combustion to escape.
British Gas says the dust was a calcium build up which occurs in appliances. It says that as 
long as calcium is not affecting combustion and other safety checks are satisfactory, then 
the appliance would be deemed safe. It says that this is found in combustion chambers on 
most boilers, not all engineers remove this with a vacuum, but some will. 
British Gas says that, as the combustion reading has been within the allowed tolerances 
over the years, the engineers have serviced the boiler correctly. Its also commented that it 
had only been called out to one breakdown visit in the last six years, despite the age of the 
boiler, suggesting that it had been serviced correctly.
I appreciate Ms F had concerns that the dust inside the cavity might mean that the annual 
services werent carried out as they should have been. However, I havent seen evidence 
this caused any problems or safety issues. 
While Ive considered all of Ms Fs points, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that the annual services British Gas carried out were inadequate. 
Customer service
Ms F is also unhappy with the customer service she received from British Gas when 
discussing her concerns over the phone. She was particularly upset by a conversation that 
took place in January 2021. She says the British Gas representative continued to engage 
her in conversation, despite her saying that she couldnt talk for long as she was getting 
ready to leave for a funeral. 
Ms F was also upset by the letter she received following the call, which said shed accepted 
British Gass offer of £100 to settle her complaint. She says shed made it clear that she 
didnt accept the £100 goodwill payment in the call. 
British Gas says there isnt any evidence to substantiate Ms Fs claim that its advisers were 
rude or pushy. However, it says it isnt able to provide call recordings, so theres no evidence 
to refute Ms Fs claims either. 
Ms F has provided a fairly detailed account of her conversations with British Gas, as well as 
a copy of the invitation to the funeral. So, Im persuaded by her testimony that this particular 
call was upsetting for her.
I also note that the wording: You accepted the Payment of £100.00 was kept in the follow 
up letter to Ms Fs complaint sent in March 2022, despite Ms Fs insistence that she didnt 
accept the £100 in several earlier emails.Ive already explained why I think Ms F was likely to have been given some misleading 
information by a British Gas representative in 2015, which led her to believe that she would 
be kept informed about the availability of parts. And Im persuaded that Ms F was caused 
some additional distress from some of her more recent communications with British Gas. So, 
for these reasons I intend to award a slightly higher amount for distress and inconvenience 
to what was recommended by our investigator.
Ms F says she didnt cash the £100 British Gas sent her in early 2022 and this has now 
expired. If this is the case, I expect British Gas to reissue this payment if it hasnt already 
done so. British Gas says £84.50 of this was to reimburse her the premiums shed paid since 
her last renewal, which it was required to pay under the terms of the policy. 
Ive thought about the overall impact of the shortcomings in British Gass communication on 
Ms F. And I think it would be reasonable for it to pay a further £300, as I think this figure 
reasonably recognises the distress and inconvenience caused by British Gas.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Ms F said she hadnt received any reissued payment of £100 from British Gas or any other 
payment of monies. 
Ms F disputed what British Gas had said about recommending she replace her boiler. She 
said she was encouraged to continue with her policy and was not advised to replace the 
boiler.
 
Ms F said she appreciated British Gas had stated it was unable to provide a list of parts that 
were available for her boiler, but she expected it to be able to identify the most important 
parts. She asked if wed called upon British Gas to show when the heat exchanger became 
obsolete. She said she agreed reduced parts alone didnt mean cover could not be provided. 
But she was concerned about the way in which increasing risk was reflected. She said 
British Gas failed to modify the wording on her policy documents to reflect the increasing risk 
of not being able to repair her boiler. She said it didnt reduce or fix the annual premium of 
the policy to reflect the increasing risk.
Ms F said she didnt have any further evidence to provide about the build up of dust in the 
internal combustion chamber. 
Ms F said British Gas had given unclear and contradictory information about whether the 
valve was unavailable. She believed British Gass failure to spot or comment on corrosion 
over the years was a failure to inspect properly. She said that even if shed needed to 
replace the boiler because of the heat exchanger, she would not have needed to do so as a 
matter of urgency. She couldnt risk the ongoing and worsening leak flooding her flat and the 
flat below her. She said shed be grateful if I could take this into account when awarding 
compensation for distress and inconvenience as even spotting the corrosion in the July 2021 
inspection could have avoided such a pressured scenario.
British Gas said it strongly disagreed with the findings Id reached in my provisional decision. 
It said there was no evidence of the conversation Ms F alleges she had with British Gas in 
2015 regarding parts, other than the handwritten notes shed provided. It said, irrespective of 
this, information regarding parts availability had been provided after this date in renewal 
documents and annual service visits from 2016 to 2021. It said this advice took into account 
several factors such as age, efficiency and parts availability. British Gas said it has no control over the availability of parts and the risk of parts becoming 
difficult to source increase as time passes. Its impossible to predict what faults might occur, 
what parts may need to be replaced or how this may impact ongoing cover. It said it provides 
information for customers to make an informed decision, without giving assurances about 
the longevity of a boiler. Its up to a customer to decide what action to take with the 
information they receive, and their personal circumstances in mind.
British Gas said in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, engineers will continue 
to attend and carry out repairs for as long as theyre available. It had refunded Ms Fs 
premiums in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
British Gas commented that Id concluded, based on Ms Fs testimony, that there had been 
service failings during the complaint handling process. It said there was nothing in its files to 
support this and these issues were not raised directly with British Gas. It said it didnt believe 
it would be appropriate for me to consider complaint handling as its not a regulated activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that both parties have strong opinions about the outcome of this complaint. Ive 
considered all of their points, but neither party has provided any new information or evidence 
to persuade me to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Ms F strongly believes that British Gas gave her misleading information about the likelihood 
of being able to repair her boiler, which meant she continued to pay for a policy she now 
believes wasnt of much use. British Gas says it would be inappropriate for it to have given 
any assurances regarding the longevity of the boiler one way or the other. It says it gave   
Ms F clear information so Ms F could make an informed decision about continuing with 
cover. 
I appreciate Ms F believes the wording on the renewal documents is misleading, particularly 
when referring to the most important parts. I dont have any information from British Gas 
about what is considered to be most important or when the heat exchanger became 
obsolete. However, Im satisfied British Gas made Ms F aware that it was becoming more 
difficult to source parts and there was a risk of not being able to repair a fault to Ms Fs 
boiler. British Gas might have been able to fix her boiler if there had been a different issue. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to tell British Gas to refund Ms Fs premiums prior to the last 
renewal.
I also acknowledge what Ms F has said about the urgency of having to replace her boiler 
because of concerns about the leak potentially flooding her flat and the flat below. However, 
as I said in my provisional decision, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that 
British Gas should have replaced part of the pipe or valve after observing corrosion during 
annual service visits.
However, I have accepted Ms Fs note of her conversation with British Gas in 2015 as 
evidence that she was likely to have been given misleading information about being notified 
if it ran out of any parts. And Ive explained why I think it would be fair for British Gas to 
compensate her for the confusion and upset she experienced as a result of this.
Im also persuaded by Ms Fs testimony regarding the customer service she received over 
the phone. Im aware that complaint handling isnt an activity that is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. However, that means that Im not able to consider a complaint 
that is solely about complaint handling. I can consider the customer service Ms F received 
from British Gas when discussing her complaint as it is part and parcel of the way in which it 
administered the financial service it was providing her. 
Having considered both sides responses, I remain of the opinion that a further £300 from 
British Gas would fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience it has caused Ms F.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Ms F £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience, in addition 
to the £100 it has already offered her.
 
Ms F says she hasnt yet received a replacement for the cheque she didnt cash, which has 
expired. So, British Gas should pay Ms F a total of £400, unless it has evidence to show that 
the previous cheque was cashed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to put things right as Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman