DRN-1676310
The complaint
Mr S complains about the level of service provided by AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (AA) after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a non-fault accident and AA arranged for his car to be repaired. But 
there were problems with Mr S receiving a suitable courtesy car and the completion of the 
repairs. So Mr S had to repeat phone calls and rearrange his plans. Mr S was also unhappy 
that AA didnt provide him with a response to his complaint within the required time limit. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AA could 
have better handled the courtesy car and repairs issues and so prevented inconvenience for 
Mr S. She thought it had wrongly closed his complaint. She thought it should pay Mr S £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by these service failings. 
AA replied that it didnt think needed to award Mr S any compensation for his inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised concerns about AA, a broker and a credit hire company. These are separate 
businesses, so I can only look here at his complaint about AA, his policys underwriter, in 
relation to its handling of his claim. If Mr S wishes, he can raise separate complaints against 
these other businesses. 
AA agreed that it didnt respond to Mr Ss complaint within the required time scale. It said it 
had incorrectly closed the complaint. This meant that Mr S had to make a further enquiry to 
have his complaint reopened. I think this was an avoidable inconvenience caused by AA.
AA authorised repairs to Mr Ss car a week after the incident. Two weeks later, Mr S called 
AA as he hadnt heard from the approved repairer. The car was then booked in a further 
three weeks later. I think this was a poor level of service and caused Mr S the trouble of 
having to chase up the repairs.
The garage agreed a date to collect Mr Ss car, but it didnt turn up. So Mr S had to 
renegotiate this. And this meant that he had to change his subsequent plans. I think this was 
a poor level of service. 
Mr S spoke to AA about his courtesy car requirements. These werent passed through to 
AAs supplier. So Mr S had to go through his details again and, because it had no record that 
AA had approved his requirement, he had trouble getting a suitable car. So Mr S wasnt 
provided with the service he was entitled to under his policy. I think this was an avoidable 
inconvenience in having to repeat his information. 
AAs approved repairer told Mr S that his repairs were completed. But when he went to 
collect the car, the repairs werent satisfactory and further rectification had to be done. I 
agree that these were done quickly, but Mr S had to wait a further day for his car and 
rearrange his plans. This could have been avoided if the repairs had been inspected before 
Mr S was told to collect his car. So I think AA caused Mr S further inconvenience in its 
handling of his claim. 
So I think AA caused Mr S avoidable inconvenience numerous times in its handling of his 
claim. AA apologised for this, but I think it should reasonably compensate Mr S for this.
Putting things right
Our investigator thought AA should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in 
similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman