DRN-2575441
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made an entry about him on a 
fraud prevention database (CIFAS) relating to his mortgage account.
 
What happened
Mr D took a mortgage with Halifax in 2016. In 2018 Halifax did further checks on his 
application. It was unable to verify the income he had declared, so it decided to make an 
entry on the fraud database about Mr D. 
In 2020 he applied for credit with other lenders but was declined. He made a subject access 
request (SAR) and found that Halifax had registered a marker with CIFAS. 
Mr D raised a complaint, which Halifax rejected as it said it had sufficient grounds to apply 
the marker. It explained that when Mr Ds application was reviewed, it carried out its usual 
underwriting checks but was unable to verify the income Mr D had declared. So it said the 
CIFAS marker was appropriately recorded as it was provided with incorrect information 
about Mr D's income. Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Mr D also raised a complaint with CIFAS and the entry was removed around September 
2020. He was approved for a mortgage with another lender shortly after this. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. As the marker 
had already been removed, she recommended Halifax pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused by the matter. Mr D didnt think this went far enough and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter.
I understand Mr D has other complaints with this service. In what follows, Ive only looked at 
his complaint about Halifax and whether it acted fairly when it applied the marker, and 
initially declined to remove it.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CIFAS database publishes principles for its members. One of the principles says that 
lenders should only record entries on its database if the standard of proof is met  that 
standard being for the lender to have reasonable grounds to believe a crime has been 
committed or attempted, and it has clear and relevant evidence to the extent that it could 
confidently report that to the police. 
Here, Halifax was unable to verify Mr Ds income and the payslips he had provided. This 
could be for a number of reasons, only one of which being that fraud had been committed, 
and so I consider it reasonable for Halifax to have further investigated the issue with the 
income first, before entering the marker. Im aware that guidance to that effect has been 
given by the database to its members.
With this in mind, Im not persuaded that Halifax had sufficient evidence to reasonably 
conclude that the threshold for putting a marker on had been met. 
Since making the complaint, the marker has been removed and Mr D said he was able to get 
a mortgage with a different lender and access other credit, though he says he suffered 
financial loss while it was there. And I think the presence of the marker did cause some 
distress and so Ive thought about what Halifax now needs to do to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
Mr D says he suffered financial loss and has shared draft correspondence from his solicitors 
asking for damages from Halifax in the region of £50,000 for this matter. Its not clear how 
this sum was reached but Ive thought carefully about whether Mr D has suffered any 
financial loss as a direct result of this marker. 
His broker says they didnt put forwards any applications for mortgages because they were 
told that the presence of the marker would result in them being immediately declined. But 
this was never tested - and there can be a number of reasons why a mortgage application is 
not successful. Im also aware that the databases guidance for members is that a marker 
should be a reason for a lender receiving an application to make its own enquiries. It should 
not be a reason for an automatic decline. So Im not persuaded that if an application had 
been made, it would have been unsuccessful purely due to the presence of the marker.  
Mr D says he felt forced out of his mortgage by Halifax as it didnt offer new terms and was 
so worried about the matter that he sold his house and bought a new one with a mortgage 
from another lender. The process, he says, was made even more stressful as he had paid a 
non-refundable deposit. 
I can understand that the presence of the marker must have been concerning and that it 
added further worry to the stress of a house purchase. 
But there can be several reasons why someone may wish to move to a new house  such as 
upsizing to get more space or a change of location. From the information Ive seen, I dont 
think Mr D making this change was as a direct result only of the presence of the marker. And 
its important to note that once the marker was removed, Mr D applied for another mortgage 
quickly and moved within a reasonable timeframe.    
Mr D has also shared information he received as a result of a SAR with another lender which 
he says shows the marker was the reason his application was declined. Ive looked at this 
carefully and agree that the CIFAS marker was flagged. But I can see that this was one 
consideration amongst others and so Im not persuaded that the marker was the sole reason 
the credit was declined.
 
For these reasons, I dont think hes suffered a direct financial loss due to the presence of 
the marker. 
But I do think Mr D has been distressed by the discovery of the marker and had to go to 
some bother in raising his concerns to CIFAS before it was removed. With this in mind Ive 
thought carefully about the level of compensation Halifax should pay for the trouble and 
upset caused. Having considered everything thats happened here, Im satisfied that £300 is 
a reasonable and fair amount of compensation.  My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset caused by 
applying this entry. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman