DRN-3228048
The complaint
Mr M complains about the transfer of his ISA from a third-party provider, referred to as the 
transferor, to Yorkshire Building Society referred to as YBS or the transferee.
What happened
On 25 January 2021 Mr M opened an E-saver ISA online. On 28 January 2021, he 
completed a Stocks and Shares ISA Transfer Authority Form (transfer form) in order to 
transfer £80,000 from a third-party provider to YBS. On 19 February 2021, YBS confirmed 
that it had received a cheque from the transferor and that the funds had been applied to his 
account on 16 February 2021. 
On 2 March 2021, Mr M completed another transfer form, this time, to transfer £70,000 from 
the third-party to YBS, which is the subject of this complaint. On 3 March 2021, YBS 
received the form and on 10 March 2021 sent the request to the transferor. 
On 6 April 2021, Mr M chased up the transfer and was (erroneously) told by YBS that the 
transfer would take 28 days from the date of receipt of the request. 
I note on 14 April 2021, in response to Mr M chasing YBS about the transfer, YBS confirmed 
that the transferor still hadnt received the request. It also said: 
please be aware that the delay is not down to us - we are waiting to receive the requested 
funds from the transferor (name anonymised), so you may wish to approach them as well.
According to the Customer Communications Data YBS undertook to manually re-send the 
request on the same date. 
On 20 April 2021, YBS sent the request again confirming its banking details, in response to 
an email from the transferor. On 12 May 2021, Mr M had established through the transferor 
that it still hadnt received a transfer request. I note on 14 May 2021, YBS sent another email 
with the bank details and chased the transferor for an update on 1 June 2021 and 7 June 
2021. 
On 15 June 2021, Mr M was informed that the transferor sent YBS the funds by electronic 
transfer. But I also note that, on 23 June 2021  before the payment was actually made  
YBS (erroneously) told Mr M that the transferor had sent the money via cheque which it still 
hadnt received. So, Mr M was understandably concerned about the location of his money. 
On 25 June 2021, YBS confirmed in writing that the funds had been received from the 
transferor and credited to Mr Ms account. And, according to its notes, backdated the 
interest. Once the money had been accredited to his account, Mr M transferred the funds to 
another account.
It seems that on 6 April 2021, Mr M complained about the incorrect information he was given 
in relation to the length of time it would take him to complete the transfer. On 15 April 2021, 
Mr M was paid £60 compensation  via BACS transfer  to an external bank account, which 
comprised of £10 for calls made to YBS, £20 for time spent chasing it and £30 for distress 
and inconvenience caused.  
On 25 June 2021, Mr M complained about YBSs failure to transfer his money in a timely 
manner. He was unhappy that the transferor had sent the money via electronic transfer on 
15 June 2021, but it wasnt credited to his account until 24/25 June 2021. Hes also unhappy 
about the lack of communication from YBS, as he wasnt told where the funds were. I note 
on 28 June 2021, YBS paid Mr M another £120 sent via BACS transfer to an external bank 
account, which comprised of £20 for calls made to YBS, £40 for time spent chasing it and 
£60 for distress and inconvenience caused.
YBS upheld the complaint. In summary, it said: 
The service Mr M received didnt match up to the high standards it aims to offer all its 
customers. 
Mr M was misinformed about the timescales it usually takes to transfer from a stocks 
and shares ISA to a cash ISA. The general timescale is 26 days, in this case from 3 
March 2021, not 21/28 days from 10 March 2021 as it mightve initially told him. 
On occasions this might be exceeded. Where this happens, it backdates the interest 
payment back to the 27th day of the delayed transfer process.  
In this case, it failed to follow its general process to begin chasing the transfer that 
surpassed the 26-day service level agreement. 
The payment was made via cheque in line with its standard process. 
Mr M disagreed with the YBSs response and in due course referred the complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said: 
Theres no doubt that there were some service failings and YBS accepts this. 
However, its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs. YBS said its standard 
practice when funds are being transferred  from a stocks and shares ISA to cash  
that it can only accept payment via cheque. 
The payment made via electronic transfer on 15 June 2021 was probably done as an 
exception, to prevent any further delays. Otherwise YBS wouldve expected a cheque 
in line with its usual practice.  
As part of the compensation paid to Mr M, YBS has covered the cost of the calls and 
time spent contacting it, which is fair and reasonable. 
However, the £90 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  in addition to 
the £60 for the time spent, and £30 for the phone calls  isnt fair. 
YBS should pay Mr M another £100 for the overall distress and inconvenience 
caused, to mark the concern experienced by him, especially not knowing what was 
happening to his money. The request made wasnt completed and confirmed until 25 
June 2021 through no fault of his own. 
YBS agreed to pay the additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he said:
Hes not surprised that YBS has agreed to pay an additional £100 but its getting 
away with a lot more. 
Contrary to what the investigator suggests, YBS didnt contact him, he had to chase 
YBS on several occasions. Even up until the day the money appeared in his account YBS told him it was still waiting for the cheque. 
Whilst hes not financially out of pocket, he mightve been. 
Hes spent a significant amount of time chasing YBS on the phone. 
Theres been a cost to his mental health. 
Hes had to locate the problem, and force YBS to resolve it. 
The compensation is nowhere near what hes due for everything hes been through. 
He was expecting between £500 and £1,000  
The transferor has offered compensation and provided an update on what it would do 
to ensure this didnt happen again. 
Whats the point of our service if we cant ensure future failings? 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reason. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
For the record, I dont think YBS behaved reasonably in dealing with Mr Ms request to 
transfer his ISA and pay the money into his account. However, other than that recommended 
by the investigator, I dont think the business needs to pay anymore compensation.
Because YBS has already upheld the complaint and offered redress  and Mr M accepts 
that hes not suffered a financial loss  the key issue for me to consider is redress, and 
whether (or not) its offer  in respect of distress and inconvenience  is fair and reasonable. 
But having done so, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im not persuaded that it is.  
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, in line with the 
investigators recommendation, I think that in addition to what YBS has already paid 
(including the lost interest), YBS should pay Mr M another £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr M, and YBS, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but its 
for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than 
not to have happened. Im not here to ensure that YBS implements changes so that this 
doesnt ever happen again.
I appreciate Mr Mr M is very upset about how long it took YBS to complete the transfer in 
question. I note his initial request to transfer £80,000 took around 22 or so days to complete, 
and the funds were sent via cheque, whereas the subsequent request to transfer £70,000  
which is the subject of this complaint  was delayed by almost four times as much before Mr M received the money in his account via bank transfer. But in the circumstances, and on 
balance, I cant safely say that YBS is solely to blame for this.  
Im aware that a separate complaint against the transferor has also been upheld, and the 
transferor has paid/offered to pay compensation for its part in the process. But in this case, 
Im only considering the actions of YBS.  
Im aware that YBS initially paid Mr M £60 compensation in relation to the first part of the 
complaint  for giving him the incorrect information about how long process would take  
made up of £30 for the distress and inconvenience caused, £10 for the phone calls made, 
and £20 for the time spent trying to resolve matters and chasing YBS. 
In relation to the second part of the complaint, YBS paid Mr M another £120  for the overall 
time taken to transfer and pay his money  comprised of £60 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, £20 for the phone calls made and £40 for the time spent chasing 
YBS. 
On balance, I agree with the investigator that a total of £90 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience wasnt reasonable in the circumstances. Like the investigator, I also think 
that YBS should pay Mr M another £100 for the overall distress and inconvenience caused, 
in addition to whats already been paid. 
On balance, Im satisfied that this also takes into account the anguish and concern that Mr M 
had about what was going on with his money, after being incorrectly told that the money was 
sent via cheque when it wasnt. Thankfully this was only for a few days and the money 
hadnt gone missing.   
Im mindful that YBS has also paid Mr M the lost interest, so that he wasnt financially 
disadvantaged. I appreciate Mr M says that he wasnt financially out of pocket but he 
mightve been. But I cant award redress based on what mightve been if the was no actual 
financial loss. Even if YBS closed the account before the interest was paid, in the 
circumstances I dont think it needs to pay Mr M any more compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.   
Whilst I appreciate Mr M feels that YBS couldve done things differently, Im unable to safely 
say that it did anything wrong by trying to follow its processes. In the circumstances I dont 
think I can blame YBS if the transferor didnt receive its multiple requests. Its possible that 
there may have been an issue with the post/email service or an issue with the transferors 
post handling, but if that was the case, I cant blame YBS for the actions of a third-party 
postal service/business. 
I also note that the money was sent over by the transferor using an incomplete reference 
number  which is what I understand led to the money initially being paid into YBSs 
suspense account before it could be paid on to Mr M. Thereafter there was a delay to the
funds being applied to Mr Ms account as YBS had been waiting for confirmation that the
funds could be credited from its ISA team.
I appreciate that the funds sent via electronic transfer from the transferor, rather than a 
cheque payment, but I understand that this was done as an exception to the rule, given the 
delays in the case. In the circumstances, I cant say that YBS has done anything wrong. 
So, in conclusion, whilst I appreciate the points made by Mr M about impact this whole 
episode has had on him, Im broadly satisfied that another £100 compensation  making a 
total of £280 compensation, plus the lost interest  is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im only going to ask the business to award 
redress as set out below.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr M what he wants.
Putting things right
In addition to the compensation already paid, Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr M 
another £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr M redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman