DRN-1326887
 
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
 Mr G took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage over the phone in 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander has provided quite a lot of documentation from the time of the sale. Ive seen a 
High Level Needs Analysis form in which it is stated that Mr G would like to protect his 
monthly mortgage repayments. Mr G has said that he needed accident and sickness cover 
only, so he didnt take out unemployment cover. This suggests that there was some 
discussion about the PPI and that Mr G gave consideration to what his needs were at the 
time. 
Ive also seen a Your Paymentcare needs and our Recommendations form. In it, Santander 
says it has identified that Mr G wouldnt be able to afford his monthly repayments if he was 
off work due to accident or sickness. The form also states that Mr G accepted the 
recommendation to take out accident and sickness cover.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that the PPI was probably presented as 
optional. It seems to me that Mr G decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
Santander advised Mr G to take out the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Gs circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr G has said that his employer would have given him 12 months full pay, followed by 6 
months half pay, if he was off work sick, although he hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
However, the employers name on Mr Gs complaint questionnaire doesnt match the name 
of the employer on his mortgage application form. Regardless of this, even if Mr G did have 
the generous sick pay that he has mentioned, I dont think that necessarily made the policy 
unsuitable, as the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay. Mr G has said that he had some savings, but having the policy would have meant that he could have retained 
these or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have done, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any 
of those things. As I think that Mr G had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman