DRN-2798550
The complaint
P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cancelled direct debits without 
informing them.
What happened
P has a business bank account with NatWest and maintains two business credit card 
accounts, both of which incur fees of approximately £30 per year. Since 2013, the annual 
credit card fees have been paid automatically, by Direct Debit, from the business current 
account.
In September 2020, P received a letter from NatWest informing them that their annual credit 
card account fees hadnt been paid and that the payments were overdue. P was concerned 
by this because recent statements for the credit card account had advised that P didnt need 
to remit payment for these fees.
P contacted NatWest and was told that the direct debits had been cancelled because they 
had become dormant. NatWest refunded the late payment fees and interest charged on the 
accounts, and P paid the credit card fees in full, so that the balance on both accounts was 
brought to zero.
P was concerned that NatWest might record adverse information on their credit file because 
of the payments not going through as scheduled. P was also concerned because they didnt 
feel that NatWest had provided a satisfactory explanation for why the Direct Debits had been 
cancelled, and P felt that NatWest should change their internal processes to make sure that 
similar cancellations dont happen again. So, they made a complaint.
NatWest looked at Ps complaint. They explained that they felt that they had applied the 
Direct Debit dormancy rules correctly, so they didnt feel that they had done anything wrong. 
NatWest also confirmed that they had taken the steps necessary to put P back in the 
financial position they would have been in had Direct Debits not been cancelled, including 
refunding the late payment fees and interest charged. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
P wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that NatWest had applied 
the Direct Debit dormancy process correctly, so they also didnt uphold Ps complaint.
P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Direct Debit dormancy rule was put in place to protect payers from Direct Debit 
instructions being live on their account indefinitely. Under the dormancy rule, if a direct debit 
hasnt been paid for a set time  the applicable period in this instance being 13 months  
then that Direct Debit is considered dormant and is cancelled by the institution which hold 
the Direct Debit instruction.
The 13-month timeframe was selected for the dormancy rule to ensure that yearly Direct 
Debits, such as the annual Direct Debit payments for Ps two business credit card accounts, 
arent caught by the dormancy rule and cancelled inappropriately - while the Direct Debit 
payments are still being used and are still required.
What happened in this instance was that NatWest offered P free business banking for the 
previous year, meaning that the Direct Debits for that year didnt need to be paid. This meant 
that it was the case that a period of more than 13 months passed without payment on the 
Direct Debits, and this was why they were caught by the Direct Debit dormancy rule and 
cancelled by NatWest.
I can see how this would be frustrating for P, and its commendable that NatWest acted 
quickly to restore P to the financial position that they should have been in, had the Direct 
Debit not been cancelled. This included NatWest reimbursing P both of the late payment 
fees as well as the interest charged on the accounts because of the late payments.
Its also understandable that P would be concerned about possible adverse reporting on 
their credit file, but NatWest have also confirmed that they wont be reporting the two 
payments as being late or missed, but rather as having been made on time, as if the 
payments had never been missed.
P has stated that they would like this service to instruct NatWest to amend their process to 
ensure that this situation doesnt arise again. Its not the place of this service to tell a 
business to change its processes, so this isnt an instruction I would consider making in this 
instance, although this service can award a complainant such as P compensation for 
financial loss incurred because of an application of a business processes, if such an 
application is deemed to be unfair and if a financial loss has been incurred.
But in this instance, there hasnt been any financial loss, and I say this because NatWest 
have already taken the steps necessary to restore P to the financial position that they should 
have been in, had the Direct Debits not been cancelled  as described above.
And while the representative of P may - on a personal level - have been inconvenienced by 
what has taken place here, given that this complaint has been brought by P as a business, I 
also wouldnt be able to consider any form of compensation for that inconvenience, payable 
personally to the representative of P. 
This is because, where a complainant is a limited company, such as is the case here, I can 
only consider compensation for inconvenience payable to the limited company directly, if it 
can be demonstrated that the company itself has been inconvenienced. And, given the 
Direct Debits were reinstated and the matter resolved relatively quickly, Im not convinced 
that P as a company has been inconvenienced here, at least not to the degree where I 
would consider it fair to instruct an award of compensation.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate Ps concerns surrounding what happened 
here, Im satisfied that the actions that NatWest have already taken to reinstate the Direct 
Debits and to restore P to the financial position they would have been in, had the Direct 
Debits not been cancelled, represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that P was wanting, but I hope that they can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman