DRN-3433191
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down his business 
interruption insurance claim after his business was forced to close due to Covid-19. 
Mr B has brought his complaint through a representative. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being from Mr B. 
What happened
Mr B held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. He claimed on his policy after 
his hairdressing business was impacted by Covid-19. 
Allianz said that the policy covered business interruption as a result of an occurrence of 
human infectious or contagious disease at the premises. It said that Mr B had not shown that 
there had been Covid-19 at his business premises and, in any event, the Governments 
imposed restrictions were not a closure of the premises by the Chief Medical Officer of 
Health for the Public Authority as required under the policy terms. 
Allianz said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test 
case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Mr Bs policy wording. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said it was 
not possible to prove there was no evidence of Covid-19 at the premises. Allianzs argument 
that the business had not been closed by a public health body was ridiculous and spurious.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think Mr B had shown it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at his business 
premises. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he said: 
Allianz couldnt argue that the disease was not present at the premises while also 
arguing the premises were not closed by the public health authority. The premises 
were closed by the Government on the advice of the Chief Medical Officer due to the 
likelihood of the virus spreading in close personal contact businesses such as Mr Bs. 
The policy covers both notifiable disease and/or the closure of the business by the 
Chief Medical Officer. 
The complete withdrawal and loss of business income due to lockdown is sufficient 
proof of loss. 
The Government closed the premises on 20 March 2020 due to the risk of 
transmission, referring to the reproduction or r number of 1.1, taken over an 
8-week period. Over the same period Mr B had more than 3,800 customers and so 
there was a statistically significant high probability that Covid-19 was present at the 
premises. 
The Government closed personal care services such as Mr Bs business due to the 
statistically high probability that Covid-19 was liable to transmit in close proximity and 
the closure was on the advice of the Chief Medical Officer. Either taken singly or 
together, the policy applies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr Bs business, and also that he has been unwell. However, I am not going to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why and in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to 
be central to this complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr Bs claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Mr Bs policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr Bs 
claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a 
case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
As Mr B has said, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, 
and the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case at the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Ive carefully considered all Mr Bs arguments as to why he considers he has discharged the burden of proof to show that Covid-19 was at the premises. 
I can see the point Mr B is making about statistical probability. But I dont consider the 
prevalence of Covid-19 in general is enough for me to fairly conclude its more likely than not 
there was an occurrence at Mr Bs premises. Also, while there was limited testing at the time 
Mr B hasnt provided any other evidence to suggest anyone at his premises had Covid-19. 
I havent seen enough to persuade me there was more likely than not an occurrence of 
Covid-19 at Mr Bs premises. So, I dont think the extension provides cover in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs claim and Allianz was fairly entitled to turn down the claim.
I have noted Mr Bs argument that the policy requirement for (a) notifiable disease at the 
premises and (b) the closure of the business by the Chief Medical Officer can work 
independently of each other (Mr Bs lettering). But I dont agree with Mr B, given that the 
policy requirement is that the closure is due to the occurrence of a notifiable human disease 
at the premises. 
I see Mr Bs point that the Governments lockdown was on the advice of the Chief Medical 
Officer and so the closure of Mr Bs business was by the Medical Officer of Health. But for 
the policy to respond I consider that the burden was on Mr B to show that his business 
interruption loss was more likely than not as a result of a case of Covid-19 at the premises, 
and I dont consider he has provided sufficient evidence of this.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr B was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont consider I can fairly require Allianz to pay his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman