DRN-3967564
The complaint
Mr L complains about his mortgage with Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor 
Mortgages. He doesnt believe that Heliodor is legitimately his mortgage lender, and doesnt 
think that it has acted fairly in taking legal action or adding the costs of legal action to the 
mortgage balance. And he doesnt think its complying with court orders.
What happened
Mr L took out a mortgage with Northern Rock in 2006. In around 2008, Northern Rock 
collapsed and was nationalised. In common with many other Northern Rock loans, Mr Ls 
mortgage was transferred to a government-owned company called NRAM Ltd. In 2019, 
NRAM in turn transferred Mr Ls mortgage to Heliodor.
Mr Ls mortgage was taken out in 2006 on an interest only basis. The term ended in 2014, 
but Mr L has not repaid the capital. In 2016, NRAM obtained a court order for possession of 
the property, suspended for a year to allow Mr L to sell the property.
When the property wasnt sold and the mortgage not repaid, NRAM went back to court and 
obtained an eviction warrant in 2017. Just before enforcement of the eviction, a third party Ill 
call Ms C contacted NRAM and said she was living in the property and had rights to it. She 
applied to the court to suspend the eviction and made further applications. In 2019, the court 
decided that the eviction should go ahead and issued a further warrant. Since then, Ms C 
has made further applications to the court and so the property has not yet been 
repossessed. In late 2019, the mortgage was transferred to Heliodor. The legal proceedings 
continued, with Heliodor substituted for NRAM. 
The costs of the various legal proceedings have been added to Mr Ls mortgage balance. 
Heliodor says that it and NRAM were entitled to add the costs in line with the mortgage 
terms and conditions. To date, legal costs are in excess of £50,000.
Mr L complained. He didnt think the transfer to Heliodor was legitimate or that Heliodor was 
his mortgage lender. He didnt think it was fair that legal fees were added to the balance. 
And he said that the court had directed the interest rate be reduced to 0.5%, but Heliodor 
was not complying with the court order. Heliodor said there was no such court order.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr L asked for it to be 
decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im satisfied that Heliodor is legitimately Mr Ls mortgage lender, and is the right 
party to respond to this complaint. When Mr L took out his mortgage with Northern Rock, he 
agreed it subject to Northern Rocks terms and conditions. Condition 19.1 of the terms and 
conditions allowed Northern Rock to transfer the mortgage to another party at any time 
without seeking Mr Ls consent first. This is how his mortgage was transferred to NRAM. And 
as a result NRAM became Mr Ls lender  and under condition 19.1, itself then able to 
transfer the mortgage on. This is how Heliodor became Mr Ls lender. The mortgage 
continues on the same terms and conditions that Northern Rock originally set  with the 
exception that the lender is now Heliodor.
Therefore the transfer to Heliodor was permitted under the terms and conditions. Mr Ls 
mortgage was not transferred individually  it was part of a large group of loans bought from 
NRAM and transferred to Heliodor. Mr Ls consent was not required, and it didnt make any 
difference that there was ongoing legal action at the time  the court ordered in April 2020 
that NRAM be removed from the claim and substituted with Heliodor. The court proceedings 
did not affect the transfer, the transfer did not affect the court proceedings, and the 
proceedings were not a reason why the transfer shouldnt have taken place.
When a mortgage is transferred from one lender to another, its sometimes the case that 
each lender remains responsible for things that happened while they owned the loan, and its 
sometimes the case that the current lender takes responsibility for the entire history. In this 
case, Heliodor told us in December 2021 that it accepted responsibility for events before the 
transfer as well as its own acts and omissions.
That means that Heliodor is legitimately Mr Ls lender, and that Heliodor is the correct 
respondent to this complaint. I therefore dont agree with Mr L that this complaint should be 
closed and replaced with a complaint about NRAM.
As to whether it was reasonable for NRAM to take, and Heliodor to take over, legal 
proceedings against Mr L, a court has found that Mr L is in breach of his mortgage terms and 
conditions by not repaying the capital at the end of the term and in missing many monthly 
payments. Its not for me to override a decision of the court. But I think it was reasonable for 
NRAM to have considered taking legal action when the mortgage remained unpaid after the 
end of the term. And when Mr L still wasnt able to repay it, and there was a dispute between 
him and a third party about the property, that needed to be resolved. 
Where a third party asserts they have an interest in a property which affects that of a 
mortgage lender, the court is the appropriate place to resolve that. In this case, the court 
said that any interest Ms C has does not override the lenders ability to enforce the 
mortgage, though Ms C has since appealed that. 
In 2019, when the court found against Mr L and Ms C and awarded NRAM a possession 
order, the court said that NRAMs costs were to be added to their charge  in other words, 
the court said that NRAM could add its legal costs to the mortgage balance.
I cannot override a decision of the court. And therefore I have no basis on which I can fairly 
say that NRAM was not entitled to add its costs to the mortgage balance, or that Heliodor is 
not entitled to collect those costs from Mr L. If Mr L did not agree about that, the appropriate 
course was either to appeal the courts decision, or to challenge the amount of costs using 
the court costs procedure.
As for the costs since 2019, I havent seen another court order entitling NRAM or Heliodor to 
add them to the mortgage balance. But the mortgage terms and conditions, at condition 20, 
entitle the lender to charge Mr L for all costs it incurs in any legal proceedings about the 
mortgage, and to charge interest on those costs while they remain outstanding. I appreciate 
that some of the costs incurred are outside Mr Ls control  for example, costs in connection 
with Ms Cs appeals. But under condition 20 of the mortgage terms and conditions Heliodor 
is entitled to charge Mr L for those costs and charge interest on them. I cant therefore say it 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in adding the costs to the mortgage balance. In the context of long running litigation now in the High Court, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that the costs are excessive. Unfortunately, legal proceedings can involve significant costs.
Ive also not seen any evidence that Heliodor has failed to comply with court orders. Our 
investigator asked Mr L to show her any court order or judgment which said that NRAM or 
Heliodor ought to have reduced the interest rate but he hasnt done so. The substantive 
judgment from 2019 expressly says that the judge left this to be resolved on another 
occasion. The judge did say that if there was no contractual right to interest he would 
nevertheless say that as a matter of equity there would still be a right to charge LIBOR plus 
0.5%. But he made no findings or decision about that and expressly did not decide the 
interest rate point. 
And in the absence of a court order about it, Ive also thought about whether NRAM and 
Heliodor have charged interest fairly. The mortgage offer and terms and conditions set out 
the applicable interest rate  and that applies even after the term ends while the capital 
remains unpaid. 
Theres no evidence either lender agreed to reduce the interest rate after the term ended. Mr 
L has pointed to an accountants report he obtained in 2016. But this report says that the 
lender has calculated interest broadly correctly. It also says that if Mr L is right about the 
interest rate then interest would have been overcharged  but it doesnt say that he is right 
about that, or contain any evidence to suggest that he is. The accountants calculation is a 
hypothetical illustration of how much extra interest Mr L might have paid if the interest rate 
had been reduced. Its not a finding that it actually was. 
I dont therefore think there is any basis, on the evidence currently available, on which I can 
fairly conclude either that NRAM and then Heliodor has overcharged interest. For all those 
reasons, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman