the complaint
Mrs C is complaining that Caversham Finance Limited (trading as BrightHouse) didn't deliver 
a sofa she acquired on a hire purchase agreement on the day it said it would do so.
what happened
Mrs C entered into a hire purchase agreement with BrightHouse to acquire a sofa. She says 
she was told that the sofa would be delivered on 26 October 2018. And she took the day off 
to wait in for the delivery. But BrightHouse didn't deliver it when it said it would. She called 
the store in the afternoon to find out what had happened. The store said it had given her 
incorrect information and that the sofa was actually scheduled to be delivered the next 
working day  29 October 2018.
Mrs C complained to BrightHouse that it had caused her to take a days annual leave. She 
said her daily rate was £130 so she wants it to pay this to her in compensation. BrightHouse 
acknowledged it initially gave her incorrect information. And it said it would arrange for £20 
of promotional credit to be added to her account.
Mrs C didn't think this was a fair offer as she said she wouldn't be able to use it as she didn't 
intend to use BrightHouse again. And she maintained that she's effectively lost £130 which 
is what she wants BrightHouse to pay her.
Our investigator thought BrightHouse's offer was fair. She thought that BrightHouse had 
given Mrs C incorrect information. And she recognised that Mrs C had had to take a day's 
annual leave. But she didn't think it was fair to require BrightHouse to pay her a day's wages. 
And she thought £20 was fair compensation. She also explained that this could be used 
towards Mrs C's existing agreement.
Mrs C didn't accept the investigator's findings. She maintained that she shouldn't have had 
to take a day's annual leave. She said her husband was scheduled to work on the day the 
sofa was actually delivered, so she would never have had to take annual leave had 
BrightHouse correctly explained when the sofa was supposed to be delivered. And she 
maintains that she effectively lost £130.
As Mrs C didn't agree with the investigator, she asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
DRN-1000236I can understand why Mrs C is unhappy that BrightHouse told her incorrect information in 
respect to the delivery date. And I understand that she's lost a day's annual leave as a result 
of this. 
BrightHouse has accepted that it gave Mrs C incorrect information and it has effectively paid 
her £20 in compensation as she can use the promotional credit to reduce the amount she 
owes on finance. It's also apologised for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her. 
The issue I have to decide is whether this is fair compensation. And I think it is.
I acknowledge that Mrs C says that she's lost £130, but I don't agree she's actually lost £130 
as she took paid annual leave. I think her actual loss is the fact that she has lost the 
opportunity to use this days annual leave another time. I appreciate that this was frustrating 
for her. But I don't think it warrants a significant compensation award. And I don't think 
BrightHouse's offer is unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I think Caversham Finance Limited's compensation offer 
of £20 promotional credit is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience it's caused 
Mrs C. It should pay this to her directly if it hasn't already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman