DRN-3839420
The complaint
Miss O complains that One Insurance Limited avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it 
as if it never existed) and refused to pay her claim. 
  
What happened
Miss O took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance through a broker. The policy 
renewed monthly. When her car was stolen and recovered damaged, she tried to make a 
claim. But One Insurance said Miss O had misrepresented her occupation when she hadnt 
told it about a change in jobs. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and decline her claim. But Miss O said 
she didnt realise she needed to tell One Insurance about the change in occupation.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. She 
thought Miss O didnt take reasonable care to read the monthly renewal documents and 
ensure that her personal information, specifically her occupation, remained up to date during 
the monthly renewal of her policy. 
One Insurance provided evidence that Miss Os new occupation was excluded from cover. 
So she thought this was a qualifying misrepresentation which entitled One Insurance to 
avoid the policy and decline the claim. And she thought that as the misrepresentation was 
careless, then One Insurance had correctly refunded the premiums back to when the first 
misrepresentation was made. 
The Investigator thought One Insurance was entitled to ask Miss O to reimburse the storage 
and recovery costs it had paid. And she thought its service in the notification call had been 
professional. 
Miss O doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
She said she couldnt see how her new occupation, which was part-time, had increased her 
risk. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the theft circumstances and the subsequent accident. I can 
understand that this has had a profound effect on Miss O and her family. And I can also 
understand that One Insurances decision to decline the claim has added to this upset. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance thinks Miss O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she didnt tell it of her change in occupation when she renewed her policy in August 
2020 and subsequently.
Ive looked at the policy schedule that Miss O was first provided when she took out the policy 
and then when she renewed it in August 2020 and at the last renewal in May 2022. I can see 
that the occupation stated in the personal details remained the same. Miss O was clearly 
asked to review her details at each renewal and tell One Insurance of any changes. 
Miss O told One Insurance that her occupation changed from August 2020 onwards after 
she was made redundant. But she didnt update One Insurance about this change, as Im 
satisfied she was required to do. Therefore I think Miss O didnt take reasonable care to 
make sure that her personal details were accurate. 
One Insurance has provided evidence from its underwriting guide that shows that if Miss O 
hadnt made the misrepresentation than it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This is because 
it doesnt provide cover for Miss Os new occupation. I can understand that Miss O thinks 
this is unfair, but its not for us to tell an insurer what risks it should or should not cover. This 
means Im satisfied Miss Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA
One Insurance has said Miss Os misrepresentation was careless. Miss O would have 
known that her occupation changed, she received multiple renewals asking her to check that 
her personal details were accurate, but she didnt tell it of the change in her occupation. I 
agree that Miss Os misrepresentation was careless because I think it was made clear to her 
that she needed to provide accurate information about her personal details, but she didnt 
think this applied to her occupation. 
As Im satisfied Miss Os misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions One Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA. The remedies for a careless 
misrepresentation where cover would not be offered at all are:
Avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation. 
Return any unused premiums the consumer paid.
Treat the policy as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal with 
any claims.
Therefore, Im satisfied One Insurance was entitled to avoid Miss Os policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, One Insurance 
does not have to deal with her claim following the theft of her car. And I can see that it 
refunded her premiums from the date she should have first notified it of her change in 
occupation, which Im satisfied is fair and reasonable.As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing One Insurance to rely on it to avoid Miss Os policy and decline her claim produces 
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Miss O raised concerns that One Insurance wanted to hold her responsible for its outlay for 
recovery and storage charges. And Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable as Ive seen 
evidence that these were paid by One Insurance. And, as the policy never existed, then Im 
satisfied that Miss O is responsible for the costs incurred. 
Miss O also thought she had been treated rudely in the call she made to notify the claim. But 
Ive not seen evidence that One Insurance treated Miss O unprofessionally. And so I dont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman