DRN-4141698
The complaint
Mrs T and her husband (the couple) submitted a joint complaint, on broadly the same 
grounds, about Mattioli Woods PLC (MW). The case was split into two, one for each 
complainant. I have already issued a decision for her husbands complaint, so this decision 
is for hers. 
Mrs T says MW recommended an unsuitable switch from her Standard Life (SL) Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) into a new SIPP in an MW Family Pension Scheme (the 
FPS); that the FPS has underperformed significantly since then; and that she seeks 
redress. 
What happened
MW took over the firm that previously serviced the SL SIPP. In 2018, the couples 
longstanding adviser retired and around the middle of the year a new adviser was assigned 
to them. Their pension arrangements were immediately reviewed by the new adviser, and 
then reviewed again later in the year. The pension switch was recommended in the second 
review, in November 2018, then FPS was set up around April 2019. 
The same advice was given to the couple jointly, with regards to switching away from their 
respective SL SIPPs, but, in the main, Mrs Ts husband took the lead and communications 
were from and to him. Her pension formed the minority in the FPS, and her husbands the 
majority.
MW disputes Mrs Ts complaint. 
In terms of suitability of its advice, it says the new advisers first review in 2018 made no 
recommendations to change the couples pension arrangements; his second review later in 
the year recommended the joint pension approach, and the switch; recommended benefits 
were legal control as trustees of the FPS (which was not the case in the SL SIPP) including 
or especially in the event of ones death, the ability to add their son as another trustee, the 
ability to invest in commercial property, and the ability to be more active and strategic in their 
pension investments; the FPS was to be more costly than the SL SIPPs, this was disclosed 
to and agreed by them at the time; the discretionary basis of the FPS portfolio was to be 
similar to the SL SIPPs but the former was to be managed daily (compared to the latters six 
monthly) and the management fee covered any associated advice from MW; the SL SIPPs 
had served them well but they needed to be changed.
By July 2019, MW says the structure, strategy and investments (including the details and 
implications of associated costs/charges) for the FPS SIPPs portfolio were known to and 
agreed by the couple, and that the investments were based on an income generating 
discretionary balanced portfolio, a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) holding, a 
structured products fund, and a cash holding. 
MW concedes that Mrs Ts husband began to raise concerns about loss of value in the FPS 
very early, in April 2019  including his comment around September 2019 that he was  
yet to be convinced of the merits of the decision to switch from SL  and his view that 
investment of the new SIPP was being unduly delayed  and that his concerns remained 
and were repeated up to January 2020 (when he challenged both the performance and fees 
in the new arrangement) and up to the formal complaint in September 2021. 
MW did not uphold the complaint. In a nutshell, it considered that its advice at the outset 
(and since) was suitable, that costs and charges were transparent and agreed, and that 
performance (which was never guaranteed) had been affected by the markets and by events 
beyond its control (including the pandemic).
The complaint was referred to us and one of our investigators looked into it. He concluded it 
should be upheld and mainly found as follows (using references to Mrs Ts husband, as the 
lead in the matter, in most of his findings):
Key points to consider are whether (or not) the pension was moved from the previous 
SL SIPP into a more expensive alternative without good reason, and whether (or not) 
the switch was suitable in terms of risk profile and personal circumstances.
With regards to the reasons given by MW for the switch evidence shows that the 
couples son had his own separate pension arrangement and financial adviser, so it 
was never an intention for him to join the FPS; that there was never an intention to 
buy commercial property and that their son worked from home; and, in terms of legal 
control upon a SIPP holders death, it is normally the case that the beneficiary on 
record gains control, this is what happens generally for SIPPs so it is not clear why a 
different approach was viewed as cause for the switch. 
There was no compelling reason to justify the higher costs (administrative and 
advisory) under the FPS as there was no justification for the switch. 
The balanced risk profile attributed by MW to Mrs Ts husband, and the medium to 
high capacity for loss that he was assessed as having, conflicted with the following  
his selection, in the risk profiling questionnaire, of a conservative portfolio; his limited 
investment experience and knowledge; and his history of having only ever taken 
small risks with past financial decisions. In this context, the structured products 
recommended for the new SIPPs portfolio would have been more suited to very 
experienced investors. It is also of note that Mrs Ts risk profile was slightly more 
cautious than her husbands.
There were a large number of investment funds available under the SL SIPP to 
achieve a rebalancing within it for the income generation objective. 
The ability to have pension investments managed on a daily basis was either 
irrelevant or unnecessary. 
Overall, Mrs T should have been advised to retain the SL SIPP and there was no 
good reason to switch to the FPS SIPP. She should be compensated for the 
unsuitable switch advice, using, if possible, the notional value of the SL SIPP as the 
redress benchmark.
MW disagreed with the investigators view and submitted its comments to explain why. 
It mainly said its engagements with the couple included discussions about them gaining 
more control over their finances in life and in death; it was not a primary reason for the 
pension switch, but the FPS gave more oversight and control to meet this objective; 
establishing potential access to the FPS (and to commercial property investment) for their son was also discussed, this too was not a primary driver for the switch but it added to its 
overall justification; their previous portfolios were invested for growth, that had to be revised 
towards income; the SL policies did not allow the sort of discretionary fund management and 
structure MW could offer and did not have the specific income portfolio it recommended to 
them (which was needed for the prospects of sustaining withdrawals without eroding capital); 
the recommended portfolio had a risk score of 4 out of 10 so it did not breach their balanced 
profile; the facility for daily active management in the new SIPP meant that could be done 
when and where necessary, not that it would be done unduly; it also stood in contrast to the 
limited facilities (one review and two rebalances per year) available in the SL SIPPs.
MW also commented on factors related to the performance of the recommended portfolio, 
the need to have been committed to it for longer than the couple were in order to reap its 
rewards, and its concerns about us giving their present claims more weight than the weight 
given to what they discussed with MW at the time(s) of advice.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I have already issued the decision for Mrs Ts husbands complaint. I upheld 
that complaint and concluded that the switch in his case was unsuitable. Given that the key 
facts pertaining to Mrs Ts case, in relation to the switch recommended by MW, are broadly 
the same as those in her husbands case it is perhaps unsurprising that I have reached the 
same conclusion in her complaint. I uphold her complaint and I find that MW recommended 
an unsuitable pension switch to her. 
I have reached this conclusion for the reasons set out below, and for the core reasons set 
out by the investigator in his view. I endorse and incorporate those core reasons (as 
summarised above) into this decision.
Having gone through evidence from the period in which the couple were assigned the new 
adviser, and in which the adviser conducted the first two financial reviews, it is reasonably 
clear that the pension switch was wholly or mainly MWs idea. There is no evidence of 
initiation by the couple and arguably no evidence of circumstances (or a change in 
circumstances) that called for it. I appreciate that this does not automatically make it 
unsuitable, but as I explain below there are reasons why the switch was unsuitable.
The following summary illustrates how MW, in the main, initiated the switch:
In the advisers initial letter of 30 July 2018 (mainly directed at Mrs Ts husband but 
addressing both of their pension arrangements) he said  In terms of the structures 
you currently have, I see no immediate need to make any significant changes. Over 
time, things will naturally evolve and we will ensure things are streamlined and as 
efficient as possible to provide you with the best possible outcomes; and In the 
interim though, we agreed we would start to consider the possible establishment of a 
family pension fund as this will allow for continuity from generation and generation 
and as you are now approaching age 75, the rules around death benefits will 
effectively change; and A pension scheme, such as I will be suggesting, could have 
some possible advantages for [the couples son] in terms of funding, possible 
purchase of commercial value, etc. Nonetheless, we can discuss this further when 
we next meet, together with the advantages associated with more flexible pension funds and the possible creation of efficiencies in terms of your investment exposure. 
[my emphasis]
The letter states that there was no cause for a change to the pension arrangements 
at the time. There is wider evidence that suggests the couples previous adviser, up 
to his retirement, had serviced their SL SIPPs well and that the new adviser was 
aware of this. Furthermore, they appear to have raised no major concerns about the 
SL SIPPs. The advisers idea of a family pension appears to have resulted from what 
could be regarded as his blue sky thinking at the time, as opposed to precise factors 
or instructions prompting it. In addition, and as the investigator was concerned about, 
the letter shows  or at least suggests  that the notion of the couples son potentially 
benefitting from a family pension and from a possible purchase of commercial value 
was raised by the adviser, not by the couple and not by circumstances. 
The advisers letter of 20 November 2018 included recommendation of the pension 
switch, the FPS and its underlying discretionary portfolio (to occupy 45% of the new 
FPS SIPP); inclusion of discreet holdings in the portfolio; recommendation of the 
REIT holding (to occupy 30% of the new SIPP); recommendation of the structured 
products fund (to occupy 10% of the new SIPP); and recommendation of a cash 
holding for 5% of the new SIPP.
This letter also referred to the possibility of further flexibility in the FPS  should 
[the couples son] need it in the future. There is no evidence such a need was ever 
presented by them and the uncertain words used in this quote show it was a 
somewhat surplus consideration. Indeed, as I summarised in the background above, 
MW accepts it was not a primary driver for the switch.
Notably, the letter also said this  The pension structure you have with Standard Life 
has served you well over the years. The growth generated by the Select portfolio 
management service, which re-balances at two agreed points during the plan year, 
has certainly worked well throughout the last ten years of a bull market. However, as 
we are reaching a more complex stage, I do feel there needs to be some changes in 
terms of investment strategy. I would like to see a more active management 
structure, namely one that is managed on a daily basis, rather than one which is 
purely reactive and look more strategically around the balance of your assets within 
your pension funds. [my emphasis]
It seems safe to say the adviser did not consider there was anything wrong with the 
SL SIPPs. He acknowledged that they had served well for 10 years and had 
generated good growth in that period. However, he (the adviser)  not the couple  
wanted to see more active management in the pension arrangements, and he 
justified this with reference to an approaching more complex stage in their lives that 
warranted such a change.
The objective for Mrs Ts pension arrangement was for her to define, not for the 
adviser. In this context, and in the absence of circumstances defeating the context, it 
was not for the adviser to determine that he wanted to see more active management 
in the pension and that there should be such management. I can understand how his 
statement might be viewed less as defining her objective and more as proposing 
what he considered beneficial to her. However, I consider that unlikely because by 
the advisers own admission the existing arrangement that he met was working well, 
four months earlier he could not find a reason to change it and no major changes in 
circumstances had happened since, so there does not appear to have been a 
problem to match the proposed solution of more active management. I also appreciate that Mrs T accepted the recommendation. That was not 
unreasonable. She (and her husband) engaged the services of professional advisers 
and she was entitled to follow the advice she received. That does not dilute evidence 
that it was the adviser who had the objective for more active management. This 
means the argument about the FPS matching this particular objective loses 
significant value, because it was not her objective. Returning to her acceptance of 
the advice, it is also noteworthy  as MW reflected in its submissions  that her 
husband did so on their joint behalf and he did so with explicit reservations about the 
advice. He was somewhat sceptical and cautious about it from the outset of its 
implementation and there is undisputed evidence of him doubting the merit of the 
switch and evidence of the consistent and repeated concerns he put to the adviser 
from the point of implementation and all the way to the point of complaint.  
Another key observation is about the letters reference to an approaching more 
complex stage in their lives. This was the advisers justification for the more active 
management he wanted to see in the pension arrangements and, essentially, for the 
switch recommendation. In the July 2018 letter, there was no mention of this 
approaching complexity. As quoted above, no action was deemed (by the adviser) 
necessary at the time. The alleged approaching complexity in or around November 
2018 is not quite clear from available evidence. The matter also begs the question 
why any impending complexity was not foreseen and addressed in the advisers 
review just four months earlier. Overall, on balance and for these reasons, I am not 
persuaded by the claim about an approaching complexity warranting the changes 
and switch the adviser recommended. 
The recommendation was associated with considerable initial costs and increased ongoing 
costs. Year one fees for the switch advice and implementation, for establishment and 
administration of the new SIPP, and for HMRC reporting were around £3,000. Ongoing fees 
of up to 3,000 per year then applied for administering and running the SIPP. All fees were 
stated as net of VAT. Previously, an ongoing charge of 0.27% per year applied to the SL 
SIPP, which in monetary terms was significantly less.
The adviser revised his investment recommendations on 3 July 2019. He said he was 
concerned about the risk of income withdrawals eroding capital in the pension, so he 
recommended a change to the investment splits. He proposed placing 60% of the FPS SIPP 
into the discretionary income portfolio, 25% into the REIT, 10% into structured products and 
holding 5% in cash. Notably, he also set out the associated initial and ongoing fees, which 
were  initial investment placement fee total of 1.2%, ongoing annual fees of 1.9% for the 
discretionary portfolio, ongoing annual fees of 1.47% for the REIT, and ongoing annual fees 
of 1.62% for the structured funds. 
There is SIPP account statement evidence that the total average yearly cost of all charges 
deducted from the SL SIPP was at the rate of 2%.
The switch recommendation and associated investment recommendations increased costs 
significantly. Higher costs that appear to have contributed to loss of value in the FPS SIPP.
The regulators Principles for Businesses, at Principle 6, requires a firm to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. This is partly echoed in the regulators 
Conduct of Business (COBS) rules, at COBS 2.1.1R, which requires a firm to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients and in relation to 
designated investment business carried on for a retail client. These regulatory provisions are 
directly relevant to a firms responsibility for the suitability of its recommendations. In 2009, the regulator produced a checklist for pension switching, which highlighted four key 
issues that advising firms were/are expected to consider seriously. MW would have  or 
ought reasonably to have  been mindful of this. One of the four issues/considerations was 
charges  in other words, the question advisers were expected to address was whether (or 
not) the consumer was being switched to a more expensive pension without good reason.
On balance, based on the above analysis, and on the additional findings to follow, I consider 
that MW recommended an unsuitable pension switch to Mrs T; the switch itself was 
unnecessary and costly; it was prompted by objectives mainly initiated and held by the 
adviser; the SL SIPP was performing well and she did not seek to change it; there is a lack 
of evidence of a change in her circumstances warranting the switch; the FPS SIPP was 
more expensive; and there was not a good reason to justify the additional expense. 
With regards to the crux of MWs post-view comments, there is no available evidence that 
Mrs T presented any of the following as objectives for a change to her pension arrangement 
 more legal control over her pension, more active management of her pensions 
investments, planned or optional access to a family pension by her son, specific rebalancing 
of her pensions investments, a preference for more frequent rebalancing of her pension 
investments. I do not accept that any parts of the switch recommendation that addressed 
these matters were parts that addressed her objectives. I consider it more likely (than not) 
that the entire affair was unreasonably taken over by the adviser, and was quite remote to 
what she asked for, wanted or needed.
I acknowledge the technical points MW has made in support of its recommendation. These 
points alone do no defeat the complaint. The facts of the FPS and the facilities within it are 
not in dispute. The issues to address are whether (or not) the switch was suitable for Mrs T 
and was in her best interests, in the circumstances as they were. Those circumstances were 
as I have addressed above, and, on balance, they do not establish suitability of the 
recommendation. Even if the FPS SIPP had more or better facilities than the SL SIPP, the 
balance of available evidence is that Mrs T did not need it, especially not at the significant 
initial costs and more expensive ongoing costs associated with it. 
Furthermore, even if the adviser foresaw that her financial arrangements were, either soon 
or further in the future, unlikely to continue sustaining any income requirements, the first 
consideration ought reasonably to have been rebalancing funds in the SL SIPP.  As the 
investigator said, there is evidence that there were sufficient options to make this potentially 
viable. It does not appear that the adviser properly looked into this alternative. Instead, he 
seems to have focused on reasons to present the FPS and the recommended portfolio and 
investments as being better products than the SL SIPP and its underlying portfolio. This was 
arguably misguided. The matter was not limited to a competition between products. 
If there was cause to reconstitute pension investments for Mrs T that would have been the 
task to address. If, as it appears, such rebalancing could have been done in the existing SL 
SIPP, which all acknowledged had performed well, that would have been the solution to 
apply. Resolving any such investment concerns within her existing arrangement where 
possible  and thereby protecting her from avoidable costs and/or avoidable increases in 
costs  would have been in her best interests and would have been what she was entitled to 
expect from the adviser. The adviser did not deliver this.
Overall, on balance and for all the above reasons, I consider that Mrs T was given unsuitable 
advice by MW to switch from her SL SIPP to the FPS SIPP. Instead, she ought to have been 
advised to retain the SL SIPP. The alternative that could have been explored was a 
rebalancing of the SL SIPPs underlying investments. However, for the purpose of this 
decision I have not found enough evidence to conclude that the SL SIPP required 
rebalancing at the point of advice in November 2018 (or at the point of the switch in 2019). Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mrs T as close as possible to the position she would 
probably now be in if MW had not given her unsuitable advice to switch her pension 
arrangement.
On balance, I consider that with suitable advice the switch would not have happened. As I 
said above, and for the reasons I explained, she should have been advised to retain the SL 
SIPP. I have not seen evidence to say or suggest she would not have done that, if advised 
to. This serves as a basis to use the SL SIPPs notional performance/value as the natural 
benchmark for the calculation of redress. In other words, but for MWs unsuitable advice she 
would have continued with the SL SIPP, so its notional performance from the date of the 
switch to the date redress is settled should illustrate where her pension would now be had 
she not switched it. That will then be offset against the performance of the FPS SIPP (and/or 
any pension it subsequently changed to) during the same period.
If the notional performance and value of the SL SIPP cannot be obtained, I will provide for an 
alternative benchmark in the table below.
The start date for the redress calculation will be when the SL SIPP was switched to the FPS 
SIPP. The end date will be the date of settlement because the effect of the unsuitable 
pension switch continues to date, so the calculation must reflect this.
Mrs T is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with MW to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that it does not already 
have. 
To compensate Mrs T fairly, MW must do the following:
Compare the notional performance of her FPS SIPP (and/or any pension it 
subsequently changed to) with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to her in compensation. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
MW is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it 
must tell her the deduction amount and give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, for her to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mrs Ts pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly 
to her. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using her actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected 
retirement age. For example, if she is or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If 
she has been or would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.Provide the details of the calculations to her in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mrs Ts 
FPS 
SIPP 
(portfolio)-    
Notional Value of the SL 
SIPP; or, if that cannot be 
obtained, FTSE UK
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index)date of 
switch to 
the FPS 
SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if MW totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
The notional performance and value of the SL SIPP provides a natural benchmark, 
for the reasons given above.
In the alternative  the SL SIPP appears to have had a broadly balanced risk profile; 
there is evidence in a review document dated July 2018 showing that its portfolio was 
populated with around 60% in equities, around 17% in bonds, around 10% in 
property related funds, around 7% in absolute return funds and around 6% in cash; 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds; it is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return; I 
consider that SL SIPPs balanced profile can be matched by this alternative 
benchmark; so it broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs T could have obtained from 
the SL SIPP had it been retained. 
compensation limits
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000, £375,000 or £415,000 
(depending on when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to 
us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such 
balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and 
it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such 
balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in 
this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mrs Ts case, the complaint event (the unsuitable pension switch) occurred in 2019 and 
the complaint was referred to us in 2021, so the applicable compensation limit should be 
£355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and I order Mattioli Woods PLC to 
calculate and pay redress to her as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman