DRN-4071771
The complaint
A company, that Ill refer to as G, has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly 
declined its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr C, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to G throughout.
QEL is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agent. As 
QEL has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agent, any reference to QEL 
includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
G held business interruption insurance with QEL. G claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the UK Governments response to the pandemic in March 
2020.
QEL declined Gs claim as it said that there wasnt cover for the circumstances of Gs claim 
under the B991  Bomb Hoax or Unlawful Occupation endorsement in the policy. QEL said 
that the endorsement provided cover where the premises could not be accessed due to a 
bomb hoax or unlawful occupation and that the sole reason for the Governments restrictions 
wasnt to protect the public from injury or death.
QEL also said that the High Court in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch 
Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the FCA test case) had found that Covid-19 was 
not an emergency within the vicinity as this term was intended to respond to local events. 
QEL said that while the wording in the B991 endorsement wasnt the same as that 
considered by the High Court, it thought it was relevant.
Unhappy with QELs response, G brought its complaint to our service.
Our Investigator looked into Gs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought 
access to Gs premises had been prohibited by a public authority with the sole purpose of 
protecting the public from injury or death. He recommended that QEL reconsider Gs claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
QEL didnt agree with our Investigator. In summary, it said:
It accepted that the Government would be considered the relevant competent 
authority and that the prohibition of access to the insureds premises has to be 
ordered by a competent authority.
The prohibition of access would need to be due to a bomb hoax or unlawful 
occupation. If thats not the case, the words bomb hoax and unlawful occupation 
which are used multiple times within the endorsement would be entirely superfluous.
The prohibition of access to the premises was not with the sole purpose of preventing 
the public from death or injury.
It is clear from the Governments announcement that the restrictions were introduced 
to 1) protect the NHS, 2) slow the spread of Covid-19 and 3) reduce the number of 
people needing hospital treatment.
I issued a provisional decision on Gs complaint on 16 March 2023 where I explained why I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. In that decision I said:
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Gs business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Both G and QEL have provided copies of endorsements which they say are applicable 
to Gs policy. I dont believe that there is any dispute about whether this is the relevant 
wording applicable to Gs claim. Endorsement B991 says: 
BPL CCOM 0518 - B991 - Bomb Hoax or Unlawful Occupation.
Under the Business Interruption "All Risks" Section, Additional Coverages, the 
following is added:
Denial of Access - Death or Injury, Bomb Hoax or Unlawful Occupation
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from 
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of the relevant 
competent authority prohibiting access to the Premises for the sole purpose of 
protecting the public from death or injury subject to the limit stated in the 
Schedule.
The Company will not be liable for losses resulting from interruption of or 
interference with the Business for periods of less than 2 hours.
All of the General Policy Conditions Exclusions limitations and terms of the Policy 
shall otherwise continue to apply to this the Policy and this endorsement.
For this endorsement to provide cover there would need to be:
1. A loss resulting from the interruption or interference with Gs business
2. In consequence of the relevant competent authority prohibiting access to Gs     
premises
3. For the sole purpose of protecting the public from death or injury.
It is accepted that G likely experienced a loss as its business was interrupted by a 
competent authority which prohibited access to its premises through the regulations 
that were introduced in March 2020. What is in dispute is whether access to Gs 
premises was prohibited with the sole intention of protecting the public from death or 
injury. Having considered the points both parties have made I intend to find that QEL 
acted reasonably in declining Gs claim under this endorsement. I will explain why.
The starting point to interpreting a contract is to identify what a reasonable person, with 
all the background knowledge which would have been available to them, would have 
understood the clause to mean when entering into the contract. This includes 
considering factors such as the natural and ordinary meaning of the clause, the contract as a whole, the facts and circumstances known or assumed by the parties at 
the time they entered into the contract, and commercial common sense.
I have considered QELs point that as the heading has the tile B991 - Bomb Hoax or 
Unlawful Occupation then the prohibition of access would need to be as a result of a 
bomb hoax or unlawful occupation only otherwise the words would be superfluous. Im 
not particularly persuaded by this.
There is nothing in the policy to indicate that headings are to be ignored or that they 
are determinative of the relevant clauses meaning. And, while I think the heading can 
indicate the meaning of a clause, I dont think it can override the remainder of the 
clause. There are also different versions of the heading within the clause and the policy 
schedule. All versions include the words bomb hoax or unlawful occupation however, 
one also includes death or injury. I think that there is a clear indication from the 
heading that the clause is intended to cover bomb hoaxes or unlawful occupation, but 
the clause is drafted in [such] a way that not that this is all that is covered. I do not 
agree with QELs point that the words bomb hoax or unlawful occupation are 
superfluous if the clause is interpreted as covering other things which could cause 
death or injury as I believe they are examples of events which could cause injury or 
death.
However, even if Im wrong I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of Gs 
claim. Thats because I dont believe that access to Gs premises was prohibited with 
the sole intention of protecting the public from injury or death. Ill explain why.
Given that the endorsement refers to the sole cause I think that access would need to 
have been prohibited only to protect the public from injury or death and not in 
combination with any other reasons.
Neither injury nor death are defined in the policy. There is a definition of bodily injury 
in the policy which includes disease and illness as well as injury or death. However, 
QEL hasnt applied the policy definition of bodily injury to this endorsement. This 
indicates to me that QEL didnt intend this clause to apply to disease and illness. The 
fact that the definition sets out that it includes disease and illness also indicates to me 
that QEL intended to draw a distinction between the words illness and injury otherwise 
it wouldnt have needed to include illness in the definition of a bodily injury. As injury is 
not defined in the policy I have considered what a reasonable policyholder would 
consider the word to mean when entering into the contract.
In considering what a reasonable policyholder would believe this to mean when 
entering into the contract I dont think that the reasonable policyholder would consider 
that injury is synonymous with illness. I think an injury would be considered to be 
[physical] damage whereas an illness is a disease or sickness. So, I dont think the 
disease Covid-19 would be considered an injury.
However, even if I accepted that injury was synonymous with illness, I also dont think 
that the restrictions were put in place solely to protect the public from injury or death.
G was required to close from 23 March 2020 by The Health Protection (Coronavirus, 
Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 although I recognise that its bar would have 
been required to close a few days earlier. On 23 March 2020 the UK Prime Minister 
said that restrictions were being introduced to halt the spread the disease, to protect 
the NHS and to save lives.
I have taken into account that the regulations say that they are in response to the serious and imminent threat to public health. While its clear that one of the aims of the 
restrictions was to protect the public from death (save lives), I think that the reference 
to halting the spread of the disease and protecting the NHS indicates that the 
restrictions were also put in place for other reasons.
In reaching this conclusion I have considered the Coronavirus Act 2020. The overview 
of which says:
The purpose of the Coronavirus Act is to enable the Government to respond to 
an emergency situation and manage the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. A 
severe pandemic will lead to a reduced workforce, increased pressure on health 
services and death management processes. The Act contains temporary 
measures designed to either amend existing legislative provisions or introduce 
new statutory powers which are designed to mitigate these impacts.1
While it was the Health Regulations which required Gs business to close, I think the 
overview of the Coronavirus Act sets out that the Government considered that the 
pandemic would lead to a reduced workforce and increased pressure on the health 
services and death management.
I think that at that point in time that restrictions were introduced the focus was on 
protecting the NHS and it was the danger of capacity there being reached that was the 
driving factor of the restrictions in the end  as opposed to actually directly preventing 
illness/deaths.
Therefore, I think QEL acted reasonably in finding that the Governments actions which 
prohibited access to Gs premises werent solely to protect the public from injury or 
death. For this reason, I do not think QEL acted unreasonably in declining Gs claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome G was hoping but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
QEL didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision and said it 
agreed with the outcome that the claim was not covered. G did not accept the outcome and 
provided further comments. In summary it said:
As I agreed that the heading of the clause did not limit the cover the only point of 
contention was whether the lockdown was to save lives. 
Our investigator referred to the Governments words on 23 March 2020 which were, 
To put it simply, if too many people become seriously unwell at one time, the NHS 
will be unable to handle it - meaning more people are likely to die, not just from 
Coronavirus but from other illnesses as well. So its vital to slow the spread of the 
disease. Because that is the way we reduce the number of people needing hospital 
treatment at any one time, so we can protect the NHSs ability to cope - and save 
more lives. Our investigator thought it was clear from this that the sole purpose of 
the restrictions was to save lives. G said it would be unrealistic to overturn this on 
review.
It is not reasonable to base my decision on political slogans. This is because at that 
time marketing advisors had told the Government that slogans which included three 
phrases had more impact with the public. 
1 https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2020/7/notes/division/2/index.htmAt the time of the restrictions people did not leave their homes due to the fear of 
catching Covid-19. It must follow that the sole reason for the restrictions was to save 
lives and the other parts of the slogan were there to support that. 
The Supreme Court in the FCA test case said that Covid-19 was an emergency 
which was likely to endanger life. It is clear that the closure of Gs premises was to 
prevent danger to life and so to prevent death. 
My view that the lockdown was not to save lives is open to challenge, particularly as 
our Investigator formed the opposite view. Where there is ambiguity most courts 
would resolve the dispute against the party that drafted the contract using the 
principle of contra proferentem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision. I do not intend to repeat the findings of my provisional decision but will comment on 
what I believe are the central points G has raised in response. 
G said that the only contention was whether the Government introduced restrictions to save 
lives. However, because the clause requires the prohibition of access to be for the sole 
purpose of protecting the public from injury or death, I believe that the relevant question for 
me to consider is whether it was reasonable for QEL to conclude that it was not the only 
reason. Thats because, my role is not to decide exactly why the Government introduced 
restrictions but rather whether QELs decision to decline Gs claim was fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances. 
I have considered Gs point about relying on the wording within a political slogan. In my 
provisional decision I also referred to the overview of the Coronavirus Act 2020 which I think 
indicates that the Government was concerned with other factors as well as saving lives. 
Moreover, the speech from the Prime Minister on 23 March 2020 which our Investigator 
quoted, also refers to protecting the NHSs ability to cope. As I believe there were multiple 
reasons for the Government restrictions, I do not agree with Gs assertion the publics fear of 
catching Covid-19 means that it must follow that the sole reason for the restrictions was to 
save lives.
In my provisional decision, I had said that the focus of the Government was on protecting the 
NHS. However, I now accept that the messages from the Government at that time indicate 
that it was also focused on saving lives. But that does not change the outcome of my 
decision because for this policy to provide cover, the prohibition of access would need to be 
for the sole purpose of protecting the public from injury or death. And as Ive explained, I do 
not think that is the case here. 
I also do not think that the outcome of my decision is inconsistent with the findings of the 
Supreme Court. While Covid-19 might be an emergency which was likely to endanger life, 
for the reasons set out above, I dont think it follows that the Government only imposed 
restrictions to save lives.
I do not believe that me reaching a different outcome to our Investigator means that the 
contract is ambiguous. Thats because I think the policy wording is clear that the sole reason 
for the prohibition of access needs to be to protect the public from injury or death and a 
difference in view in whether the insured event occurred does not change the clarity of the wording of the clause. Our service is designed as such that, while an Investigator can give 
an initial view, both parties have the right to ask an Ombudsman to consider matters afresh, 
which is what I have done.  
I recognise the strength of Mr Cs feeling that the closure of Gs business was for the sole 
purpose of protecting the public from injury or death. However, as I have said above, my role 
is to decide whether QELs decision to decline Gs claim was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. The Governments reasons for introducing the restrictions which led to the 
closure of Gs business might be debateable but I have to reach a decision on what I think is 
most likely, as well as what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I think 
it is most likely that the Government made its decision to impose restrictions for more 
reasons than just to protect the public from injury or death. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman