DRN-3578988
The complaint
Ms C and Mr H complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms C and Mr H have an annual travel insurance policy 
underwritten by AWP. In February 2020, they booked a trip with intended departure and 
return dates of 29 April 2020 and 6 May 2020 respectively. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On 
14 March 2020, the government of Ms C and Mr Hs intended destination closed       
non-essential public places and on 16 March 2020 it restricted travel in that country. On      
17 March 2020, the UK government advised against all but essential travel abroad and 
on 23 March 2020 it imposed wide ranging restrictions on movement. Those restrictions 
remained in place at the time of Ms C and Mr Hs intended departure. 
On 14 April 2020, the accommodation and activities provider said that the trip was 
cancelled because of the restrictions in place in their intended destination country. It 
subsequently confirmed that it wasnt going to pay refunds. The accommodation and 
activities provider referred Ms C and Mr H to their insurer. 
I understand that the airline refunded Ms C and Mr Hs flight costs. Ms C and Mr H made 
a claim against their policy in relation to unrecovered accommodation and activities 
costs. They said that they were quarantined, which was an insured event under the 
policy. AWP declined their claim. It said that what happened here wasnt covered by the 
policy. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She told AWP that the 
information it had previously sent to this service was inaccessible and she asked it to 
provide the information again. AWP didnt respond, so the investigator proceeded on the 
basis of the information she had.
The investigator said that what happened here wasnt one of the specific, listed insured 
events for which cancellation cover is provided. But in the particular circumstances of 
this case, it was fair and reasonable for AWP to deal with the claim. That was because 
there was an exclusion in the policy in relation to travel against FCDO advice. That 
meant that Ms C and Mr H werent covered by the policy whether they followed FCDO 
advice and didnt travel or whether they proceeded to travel. The investigator didnt think 
that the exclusion was made sufficiently clear to Ms C and Mr H and that they wouldnt 
have bought the policy if theyd known the true position. 
Ms C and Mr H agreed with the investigator, but AWP didnt. It said that Ms C and Mr H 
werent able to travel even if they wanted to, as travel was prohibited by their destination 
country. 
The investigator considered what AWP said but it didnt change her view. AWP asked 
that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. AWP was obliged to give 
Ms C and Mr H appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a way that is easy 
to understand. This should include an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), 
which gives a summary of certain things, including excluded risks. 
The IPID
At the top of the IPID it says:
This document only provides a basic summary of policy cover. The full terms and conditions 
of the contract are shown on the policy document, which you should read carefully to ensure 
you have the cover you need.
Under the heading Where am I covered it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer. 
The policy terms and conditions
Under the heading SECTION A  CANCELLATION OR CURTAILMENT CHARGES, it 
says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of cover (see page 11) for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs, pre-booked excursion costs, 
organised event fees and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to 
pay, together with any additional travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip is 
unavoidable or the trip is curtailed before completion as a result of any of the following 
specified events:
The policy then lists the insured events leading to cancellation or curtailment. Ms C and Mr H 
say that the relevant one here is:
2 You or any person who you are travelling with, or have arranged to travel with, being 
quarantined, [].
One of the general exclusions provides that AWP will not pay for claim arising directly or 
indirectly from:
8 Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) or other government or official regulatory body in a country to/from which you are 
travelling has advised against all, or all but essential, travel at the time of booking, or travel. 
For residents of the United Kingdom this regulatory body is the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO).Has Ms C and Mr Hs claim been declined unfairly?
I agree with Ms C and Mr H that the reference to quarantine in the policy doesnt 
require an order of a treating doctor and symptoms of disease. But I dont agree with 
Ms C and Mr H that they cancelled their trip because they were quarantined. 
The policy doesnt say what AWP means by  quarantine. So, Ive considered the 
ordinary everyday meaning of the word as well as the context in which the word 
quarantine is used in the policy. Ive also had regard to the following dictionary 
definition of quarantine:
a state, period, or place of isolation in which people or animals that have arrived 
from elsewhere or been exposed to infectious or contagious disease are placed. 
I dont think that the restrictions on movement imposed by either the UK government 
or the government of Ms C and Mr Hs intended destination amounted to quarantine 
for Ms C and Mr H. In both places, movement was allowed for work, essential 
purchases, healthcare,  childcare and exercise. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
either Ms C or Mr H were advised to shield during the pandemic. 
Ms C and Mr H cancelled their trip because of government restrictions on travel. 
Thats not one of the listed, insured events for which cancellation cover is provided 
under the policy. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill explain.
The exclusion that Ive set out above means that if Ms C and Mr H had travelled 
against FCDO advice, they wouldnt have been covered by the policys terms and 
conditions. But under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently 
clear to Ms C and Mr H.
Ms C and Mr H would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstance wasnt covered. And I dont think 
that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think that the combined effect of the policy terms was made 
sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of the 
parties. I think its unlikely that Ms C and Mr H would have purchased the policy if 
they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance 
changed. 
In all the circumstances of this case, I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to 
assess Ms C and Mr Hs claim under the cancellation provisions and the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Putting things right
Im directing AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
AWP should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.My final decision
Im upholding Ms C and Mr Hs complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman