DRN-3211044
The complaint
The estate of Mr R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt set up a life 
insurance policy for him in 2010. When the estate went to make a claim, they were told there 
was no policy to claim on because a blood test wasnt carried out in 2010. 
The estate is being represented by Miss F  the late Mr Rs mother. 
What happened
Sadly, Mr R died in November 2019. But when his estate tried to make a claim on a life 
policy, Aviva said it didnt exist. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he had seen evidence 
that Aviva had asked Mr R to complete a blood test due to his Body Mass Index (BMI), but 
this was refused because Miss F didnt think Mr R would agree to a blood test because he 
would have to fast for it. The investigator said Aviva hadnt treated Mr R unfairly by asking 
for a blood test because this was part of its normal process. And Aviva declining the 
application wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss F disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said it wasnt fair that the 
policy wasnt accepted, and the claim declined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Miss F. I want to assure her that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an 
incredibly difficult time for her. While I dont want to add to her distress, I cant say Aviva has 
treated the estate unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The investigator has correctly explained that it isnt for this service to tell an insurer who it 
should or shouldnt provide cover to. My role is to consider whether Aviva considered Mr Rs 
application fairly and decide whether a policy was or wasnt accepted here. 
Ive considered the underwriting guidance that was in place at the time of the application. 
And Im satisfied that customers applying for a policy with Mr Rs BMI would be referred to 
an underwriter. As a result of this referral a blood test was requested. The notes show this 
blood test was refused by Miss F after she spoke with Avivas nurse. This information was 
fed back to the underwriters who decided to decline the application. 
So, Im satisfied there was no policy for the estate to claim on after Mr R died. And Im 
satisfied that Avivas referral of Mr Rs application to an underwriter and then the subsequent 
request for a blood test wasnt unfair because Aviva followed the process it would apply for 
anyone with the same BMI as Mr R. 
Its unfortunate that due to the passage of time theres no evidence that Aviva made the late 
Mr R or Miss F aware of its decision to decline the application. But I can confirm Ive seen 
the internal notes which confirm this was Avivas decision after it was told the blood test 
wouldnt be going ahead. Ive considered that no premiums were taken for the policy from 
2010 to 2019 and that the application made Mr R aware that he may be contacted about the 
application if more information was needed  which is what happened here. And Avivas 
standard process after declining an application would be to confirm this in writing which I 
believe is what most likely happened here. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman