DRN-2966001
The complaint 
Mr C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) hasnt fairly compensated him for mis-
sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on a high-street store charge card.
What happened
In 2019 Allianz upheld Mr Cs mis-sale complaint and it offered him compensation of 61 
pence. Allianz explained that because it didnt have records from when the account started 
in the mid 1980s to around mid-2000, it based the refund on the average balance for this 
period. Allianz said it would reconsider things if Mr C could provide any historical account 
statements / payment information.
Mr C provided Allianz with details of a number of payments he identified from his bank 
statements and cheque book stubs as being what he said were minimum payments to the 
account. He said Allianz should use these to recalculate its offer.
Allianz disagreed  it said the payment information Mr C provided couldnt be used. It said 
the payments could have been payments of the balance in full rather than minimum 
payments.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. In summary he says that Allianzs offer of compensation 
has used an unrepresentative inactive period of his account from the middle of 2000, which 
shows a legacy balance of 32 pence, to assume this was the activity from the start of the 
account when it was active. Mr C says this is unfair. He says he has provided evidence of a 
number of payments he made to his account and says these payments represent the 
minimum payment of 5% on his charge card account. He says at the time the account was 
active he was using the card regularly and because his bank statements show he was 
overdrawn regularly, this is evidence that he was making the minimum payment to his 
charge card and so was incurring PPI charges.
To put things right Mr C says that the average of the payments he has identified should be 
used by Allianz to work out how much PPI, on average he would have paid each month over 
the life of the account. Mr C says this should result in compensation of more than £600.
The adjudicator looked at all of this and they didnt think Allianzs offer was fair. They said 
the available account history shows that Mr Cs account was dormant, which doesnt fairly 
reflect how the account was likely used during the missing data period. They said Allianz 
should base the offer on the methodology used where no statement data is available  in the 
circumstances they said this would represent fair compensation.
Allianz replied and said that it had found some archived system information, which provided 
some insight into Mr Cs account history. It said it showed that Mr C hadnt always cleared 
his balance in full and showed a record of Mr Cs account balance on two occasions in 1998. 
In light of this information Allianz said it had revised its offer. It said it had used this actual 
account data to allow it to better estimate the amount of PPI Mr C paid over the life of the 
account. The offer of compensation is £180.58 after the deduction of tax.
In summary the adjudicator said that they though Allianzs revised offer was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr C disagrees. He maintains that the offer isnt fair and Allianz should use the average of 
the payment information he has provided to arrive at the compensation amount.
The complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided 
that Allianzs revised offer of compensation is fair. My reasons for reaching this conclusion 
are set out below.
It is unfortunate that Allianz no longer has a comprehensive set of account payment history 
records for Mr Cs charge card account to allow it to precisely calculate the amount of PPI 
compensation Mr C should receive. But it is in my view inevitable  Mr Cs account started 
over 30 years ago and businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely. Because of this 
some assumptions must be made by Allianz in calculating Mr Cs PPI compensation  but 
they must be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In Mr Cs case, I can see that hes gone to the trouble of digging out some old bank 
statements and cheque book stubs, which show a number of payments he made to his 
charge card account. Mr C says these payments should be taken into account in Allianzs 
compensation calculation  he says these represent the minimum payments he made to his 
account. Mr C says that by taking the average of these payments and assuming that this is 
how his account was run from the start the average PPI he paid can be calculated. And he 
says this is a fairer way to fill in the gaps in the actual data. 
But I disagree with Mr C. Mr C hasnt got any historic charge card account statements to 
show his account balance history to marry up with the payments he has identified. And I 
dont think it can be assumed that, more likely than not the payments Mr C has identified 
reflect only the minimum payment he made to his account each time, or that it can be 
assumed to represent his payment behaviour over the whole life of his charge card account.
I say this because, while on the one hand I hear what Mr C says about his circumstances   
he had a large family to feed and some of the bank statements he has provided show he 
was running an overdraft (albeit not all of the statement balances are legible.) But on the 
other hand I dont think it necessarily follows that just because Mr Cs bank account was 
overdrawn this means he was only making the minimum payment on his charge card. I dont 
think there is an inherent correlation between these two things. 
And as Ive said above there arent any charge card statements to support what Mr C says 
and to show how he was using his card and what the balances were over time. Im also 
mindful that the financial information Mr C has provided and identified only covers a period of 
around three years, or 15% of the total life of the account. That leaves a greater proportion 
of time where neither Mr C nor Allianz can provide any data to show how Mr Cs charge card 
account was run.In addition, I can see from Allianzs archived system notes I referred to above, that on two 
occasions during 1998 it is recorded that Mr C sent payments to clear the outstanding 
balance in full. So there is evidence from the time to show that it was not always the case 
that the payments Mr C made to his account were the minimum payments required. 
And it is for these reasons that I dont think it is fair for Allianz to adopt Mr Cs methodology 
for calculating his compensation and to assume that the average payments he has identified 
were minimum payments to the account and apply this to the whole life of the account.
Helpfully, not only does Allianzs archived system notes refer to Mr C clearing his balance on 
the two occasions in 1998 as I said above, but the account balances have also been 
recorded. So this is accurate data of the position of Mr Cs account balance at two points in 
1998. And this is data that Allianz should fairly take into account in calculating Mr Cs 
compensation and when estimating the account balances for the period when no data is 
available.
Ive carefully considered the revised offer of compensation Allianz has made. And having 
done so I think in the circumstances it is fair. Allianz has used the known data and then 
overlayed this with average customer data/behaviour to estimate the account balances for 
the period where no data is available. And this calculation covers the life of the account. 
As the adjudicator explained to Mr C, this methodology is in line with what the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would typically expect a business to follow (an outline of this can also 
be found on our website if Mr C wants further reassurance) and I have no concerns about 
the way Allianz has calculated Mr Cs offer.
Taking everything into account, I think Allianzs method of calculating Mr Cs compensation 
is fair.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said  including what he said in response to the 
adjudicators assessment - but these points dont change my decision.
I understand that Mr C believes he should receive more compensation. But his calculation is 
too rudimentary and in my view likely overinflates the amount of PPI he paid. So in the 
absence of a complete set of actual account data, I think the approach Allianz has adopted 
in calculating Mr Cs PPI compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Nevertheless I do think it is reasonable for Allianz to have identified the account balance 
information contained within its archived system earlier. And while Allianz would likely have 
done this anyway, for this reason I think it is fair for Allianz to bring its latest offer up to date 
and re-calculate the 8% interest element to the date of payment. 
Putting things right
Allianz should pay Mr C compensation in line with its latest offer of £180.58 net of tax  but it 
should revise the 8% interest element to the date of payment to reflect loss of opportunity.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I direct Allianz 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr C compensation in line with what I have set out above. I make no 
other award.This now concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services consideration of this complaint, 
which means I wont engage in any further discussion on the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman