DRN-1569593
The complaint
Mr E complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent irresponsibly to him. 
What happened
Between September 2013 and August 2014, Mr E took out three loans with Mr Lender. 
The lending history is set out below. 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 29/09/2013 30/05/2014 1 £350.00 £472.50
2 30/05/2014 28/08/2014 1 £200.00 £260.00
3 28/08/2014 outstanding 6 £1,000.00 £466.66
In his complaint to this service, when he took out these loans, Mr E told us that he was going 
through some difficult personal circumstances and had some health problems. He said that 
he was taking out one payday loan to repay another. He thought that a fair way to settle his 
complaint was for Mr Lender to write off the balance outstanding on loan 3. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 2 and 3. Mr E 
had run into difficulties repaying loan 1 and our adjudicator said it should have been clear to 
Mr Lender that Mr E was struggling financially when he applied for loans 2 and 3. 
Mr Lender offered to settle the complaint broadly in line with our adjudicators view. Mr E 
didnt agree with that. He said he had struggled to repay loan 1 and that there were lots of 
fees and charges to contend with on that loan, which had exacerbated his mental health 
difficulties. He said he had notified Mr Lender of his health and money issues and that its 
response was to offer him a payment arrangement that was more than his monthly income. 
Mr E thought Mr Lender should pay compensation to him over and above the offer it had 
made. 
As Mr E didnt agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision. I asked our adjudicator to contact Mr E for some further information. In 
response to that request, Mr E said another business had obtained a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) against him in 2014. He wasnt able to provide us with any bank 
statements for the period in question, but he said he thought he had numerous payday loans 
with around seven companies at the relevant time. He said all of his funds were going on 
payday loans and so he couldnt afford to meet his priority debts. 
 
I am aware that Mr E has recently spent some time in hospital and that he is in the process 
of recovering from surgery. I wish him well in that recovery. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr E could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Turning first to what happened with loan 1, this was the first loan Mr E had applied for from 
Mr Lender and I cant see that hed had any previous applications declined. So as I said 
above, early in the lending relationship, I cant say it would have been proportionate for Mr 
Lender to have undertaken a full review of Mr Es finances unless there was something to 
put it on notice that he may have been struggling. 
Loan 1 was taken out in September 2013. Ive considered what Mr Lender knew about Mr 
Es situation at that stage with great care. I can see that Mr E declared his monthly net 
income to be £1,659 and his expenditure to be less than £700 per month. I can see a 
rudimentary credit check was undertaken by Mr Lender at the same time, which showed he 
had not been insolvent during the three years prior to making this loan application.  I 
appreciate a CCJ was obtained in 2014, but as that was after he applied for loan 1, that 
wouldnt have showed up on the credit check. Ive thought about whether Mr Lender should have done more to ascertain whether Mr E had 
any other outstanding payday loans. For example, I can see that the credit check revealed 
hed had some unsecured debt in the past, although it didnt say what those liabilities were. 
Although Mr E gave us a list of creditors he thought he owed money to at the relevant time, 
its not entirely clear precisely what was owed or to whom when Mr E applied to Mr Lender 
for loan 1. He hasnt been able to provide us with any documents about the other borrowing, 
which isnt surprising given loan 1 was taken out seven years ago. 
So with all of that in mind, when Mr E applied for loan 1, from the information he provided to 
Mr Lender and that which it reasonably obtained, I dont think Mr Es financial difficulties 
would have been apparent and so I cant say Mr Lender was irresponsible to agree loan 1. 
However, when Mr E applied for loan 2, I think the situation was fundamentally different. By 
this stage, Mr Lender should have understood Mr E was having financial difficulties. He had 
rolled over  his repayments for loan 1 on several occasions and had sought assistance from 
Mr Lender to set up an affordable repayment plan. He also applied for this £200 loan on the 
same day that he had paid £126 to repay loan 1. I think it should have been absolutely clear 
to Mr Lender that Mr E could not sustainably repay loan 2 and that he had most likely taken 
this borrowing to plug the hole repaying loan 1 left in his finances. 
When he applied for loan 3, I think it should have also been abundantly clear to Mr Lender 
that Mr E that Mr E could not sustainably repay this borrowing. He had rolled over 
repayments for both loans 1 and 2. And he had applied for loan 3 on the same day that he 
repaid loan 2, which should have again put Mr Lender on notice that he was borrowing loan 
3 to plug the hole loan 2 left in his finances. 
Moreover, I can see that even though Mr E was borrowing significantly more for loan 3, his 
expenditure appeared to have decreased. Notably, his housing costs were said to have 
more than halved. I think Mr Lender should have undertaken a full review of Mr Es finances 
and if it had done so, it would have most likely seen that Mr E could not sustainably repay 
this borrowing. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think Mr Lender would have reasonably appreciated that Mr E 
was in financial difficulties when he applied for loan 1. But it should not have agreed to lend 
him loans 2 and 3. It will need to put things right for Mr E, which will be effectively to remove 
any charges and fees from the upheld loans. I think there will still be an outstanding balance 
in respect of loan 3, so Mr Lender will be able to put the refund towards whats left of the 
outstanding capital. Mr Lender will also have to remove any adverse information remaining 
on Mr Es credit file in respect of loans 2 and 3. 
 
Should additional compensation be paid? 
Throughout his complaint, Mr E has been clear he feels he should be paid additional 
compensation for the stress he says Mr Lender caused him. He also said that he thought the 
remaining balance of principal in respect of loan 3 should be written off. 
I am very sorry to hear of Mr Es difficult personal circumstances and the difficulties hes had 
with his mental health. I can see that his situation has been tough now for some time and 
hes recently had some surgery. While I do very much appreciate Mr Es situation, when Im 
looking at whether additional compensation can be paid, I cant say that a business must 
compensate a person because they have health difficulties. I have to look at how the lender 
acted in light of what it knew about Mr Es circumstances at the appropriate time. In his complaint form, Mr E helpfully sent us an email trail of correspondence between him 
and Mr Lender.  Looking through those emails, I cant see that Mr Lender would have been 
aware of Mr Es health or personal circumstances until November 2014, which was after he 
applied for loan 3. 
In respect of loan 1, I can see that Mr Lender set up a repayment plan with Mr E when he fell 
behind with his repayments. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Lender was aware of any 
personal difficulties Mr E may have had at that time, so I cant reasonably say it should 
compensate him for how it dealt with loan 1. 
By the time he ran into difficulties with loan 3, Mr Lender contacted Mr E shortly after his 
repayments were due. It offered to waive late fees if the balance was settled within three 
months or to repay the balance over six months. I can see that the proposals made by Mr 
Lender at that point would have been unaffordable if Mr E wasnt working. But at that stage, I 
dont think Mr Lender was aware of his reduced income. In fact its not clear whether specific 
information about Mr Es reduced income has ever been provided to the lender. 
On 9 November 2014, I can see that Mr E told Mr Lender that he was not in good health and 
that there had been a significant change in his personal circumstances. So at that point, Mr 
Lender should have been on notice that Mr E may have been vulnerable. It appears that at 
some point after this contact, Mr Lender sent Mr E an income and expenditure form, which I 
assume was with a view to setting up a repayment plan. The evidence doesnt suggest it 
received a reply from Mr E. From his correspondence, I am not clear whether he didnt get 
that form or whether he completed it and it wasnt received by Mr Lender. In any event, as 
no response was received, Mr Lender passed the debt on to a third-party collection agency.
 
I havent seen evidence of correspondence between the parties after November 2014 and 
before 2019. In 2019, I can see Mr Lender offered to remove all fees and interest in respect 
of loan 3 and use the interest Mr E paid on loan 2 to reduce the principal balance. There was 
a discussion between the parties of Mr E making small repayments on this loan for a limited 
period. As far as I can see, I dont think any repayments have been made in respect of loan 
3 and I havent seen that Mr E put any proposals to Mr Lender. 
Ive thought carefully about how Mr Lender responded when it was on notice that Mr E may 
have been a vulnerable consumer. I think it did make efforts to set up a repayment plan with 
Mr E and sent out the income and expenditure form in order to tailor a plan for him. And it 
later offered to agree to lower repayments with a review built in after a period of time.
I dont doubt for a moment that Mr E has felt under stress dealing with debt considering his 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr E strongly disagrees, but I cant objectively say that Mr 
Lender treated him so unreasonably as to require compensation over and above a removal 
of the fees and charges in respect of loans 2 and 3. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr Lender should write off the outstanding principal in 
respect of loan 3. Mr Lender will need to remove any interest and charges it applied to loan 
3, but I dont think it would be fair to write off the principal. If Mr Lender did that, Mr E would 
have had the benefit of the £1,000 that he would never have to pay back. In all of the 
circumstances, I dont think that would be a fair outcome.
 
Putting all of this together, although I appreciate Mr E feels strongly that Mr Lender treated 
him badly, I cant say Mr Lender acted in such a way that further compensation is due. But 
Mr Lender will still need to take some action to put things right for Mr E because it shouldnt 
have given him loans 2 and 3 as set out below. 
As I said at the outset, I have seen evidence from Mr E that he recently had surgery. And 
indeed, he was in hospital when our adjudicator contacted him. If the parties do agree a 
repayment plan, I reiterate to Mr Lender that Mr E must be treated fairly. CONC 7.3 requires it to treat Mr E with forbearance and due consideration. It must be mindful of the fact that Mr 
E is currently unwell and is in receipt of sick pay at this time. 
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr E loans 2 and 3. As set out above, I understand there is 
an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3 and that this may have been passed to a third 
party.
 
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If it cannot buy the debts back, then it must liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
a) Mr Lender must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything already refunded. 
b) Mr Lender must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
E which were considered as part of paragraph (a), calculated from the date Mr E 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c)  Mr Lender must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr E 
having made overpayments then Mr Lender must refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. It should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step paragraph (e). 
d) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in (a) and (b) 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Mr Lender must try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already 
written-off. 
e) Mr Lender must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in 
relation to loans 2 and 3.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I partly uphold the complaint. PDL Finance Limited, trading 
as Mr Lender, will need to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman