DRN-2063195
The complaint
Mr A says Western Circle Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. Mr A says Western Circle didnt 
sufficiently check his financial situation to make sure he could afford the lending. He says his 
expenditure was more than his income and he had other creditors. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Western Circle provided to Mr A between 
November 2018 and February 2019. Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 09/11/2018 27/12/2018 2 £200.00 £127.84
2 04/02/2019 22/03/2019 2 £200.00 £125.27
The second of our adjudicators to look at Mr As complaint didnt think that either of the loans 
should have been given to Mr A. This was because the Mr As credit report showed other 
short-term lending, pay-day loans and unsecured lending. The monthly credit commitment 
spreadsheet provided by Western Circle showed that after the lending was unaffordable for 
Mr A as it would leave him with a very limited monthly disposable income.
Western Circle didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said Mr A was living with his parents so it 
was unlikely there would be a rise in his living costs during the repayment term and for loan 
two Mr As showed a higher amount of disposable income. It said both loans were repaid 
without any obvious difficultly and that his indebtedness at loan two had reduced according 
to the credit report.  It concluded the lending was affordable and sustainable for Mr A. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Western Circle needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Western Circle should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Western Circle was required to 
establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. After doing so, Im upholding the 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Western Circle has told us of the affordability and creditworthiness checks it carried out 
before agreeing to lend to Mr A. This included information gathered from Mr A about his 
income and expenditure, a credit check and third-party reports.
For loan one Mr As recorded income was £1,600 and expenditure was £765 which included 
£600 of other loan repayments. So, on the face of it the lending was affordable for Mr A on a 
pounds and pence basis. 
But Western Circle has provided us with a copy of the Mr As credit report which shows other 
short-term and unsecured lending which would suggest that Mr A was having problems 
managing his money. Western Circle also gave us a copy of a spreadsheet showing Mr As 
monthly credit commitments. According to that sheet Mr As next monthly loan repayments 
were recorded as being £1,289 (which I assume included the £600 loan repayments Mr A 
stated on his application). So, taking this into account  Mr As income of £1,600 and his 
household expenditure of £165 less the next monthly loan repayments due of £1,289  this 
would have left Mr A with £146 per month. The monthly loan repayment due to Western 
Circle for loan one was £128. So, Mr A would have only been left with under £20 disposable 
income for the following two months which would make the lending unaffordable for Mr A in 
case of unexpected outgoings. Western Circle said that as Mr A was living with his parents it was unlikely that his household 
expenses would rise over the two-month repayment period. But it cant have known this for 
sure (and they did in fact increase). And bearing in mind Mr As credit report  and which 
Western Circle was aware of at the time of the lending  this suggests he was having 
problems managing his money. So, I dont think loan one should have been given as it was 
unaffordable for Mr A.  
Western Circle has said that Mr As indebtedness had reduced, and disposable income had 
improved for loan two. The monthly credit commitment spreadsheet for loan two shows a 
reduction in the next months loan repayments. The figure had reduced to £1,034. And 
according to the credit report Mr As overall indebtedness had reduced. But Mr As monthly 
income had also reduced and was recorded as being £1,495 and his household expenses 
had increased to £280. So, taking into account the income of £1,495, less household 
expenses of £280 and then the loan repayments of £1,034, this left Mr A with a disposable 
income of £151 before taking into account the monthly repayment for loan two of £125. So 
again, I think this shows the lending was unaffordable for Mr A. So, I dont think either of the 
loans should have been given. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about both loans and Western Circle should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest. Western 
Circle must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman