DRN-2872446
The complaint
Ms K complains Lowell Portfolio I Ltd have defaulted her on a loan for a debt they said they 
wouldnt.
What happened
Ms K said in 2016 she came to a payment arrangement with her original lender, who Ill call 
J, to repay her outstanding debt for £10 per month.
In 2018 J sold the debt to Lowell. Ms K said she wasnt happy with this as shed never 
missed a payment in her payment arrangement. Around a month after this happened, a 
direct debit was set up for Lowell to begin collecting the payment. Ms K says the payment 
was still being collected by J at this time, and that her bank told her to cancel this direct 
debit. 
Ms K says she raised this with Lowell, but then her mental health deteriorated, and she 
wasnt able to deal with things for a few months. During this time, Lowell were contacting her 
to make payment towards the debt theyd bought. 
Later on, Ms K said she received the default notice, and having contacted Lowell they 
agreed they wouldnt now default her account. Ms K says a complaint would be raised, but 
as shed not heard anything for months, she asked us to look into things. 
Lowell did reply to the complaint. They explained theyd bought Ms Ks account from J on 
4 January 2018 and told her this by letter on 16 March 2018 in the Notice of Assignment 
(NOA). Lowell explained when buying the account effectively all responsibilities moved from 
J to them  which included the £10 direct debit payments. Lowell said when they tried to take 
this payment in March 2018 it was rejected by Ms Ks bank. After this, they sent her ten 
letters and four emails asking her to get in touch  and they tried to contact her on the 
phone. But, having not heard from her Lowell sent her a Notice of Default on 23 August 
2018, explaining action needed to be taken by 20 September 2018 otherwise a default would 
be registered. 
Lowell said Ms K did then get in touch on 18 September 2018 and explained her personal 
circumstances. As a result of this, Lowell said theyd extend the deadline for 30 days to give 
Ms K some breathing space. But they say she was advised multiple times she had to get 
back in touch by 15 October 2018 otherwise theyd default her account. Lowell said she 
didnt get back in touch by the deadline, so they registered the default and backdated it to 
20 September 2018 when it originally would have been applied, but for the hold theyd put in 
place. 
Unhappy with this Ms K asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and 
overall found Ms K hadnt got back to Lowell within the 30 days. So, although he really 
sympathised with Ms Ks circumstances, he didnt think Lowell had done anything wrong. 
Ms K replied saying she didnt agree with our investigator. She explained her bank had told 
her to cancel the direct debit because itd been set up by Lowell for an unknown amount. As 
far as Ms K was concerned, she was still paying J. And because of an address change she 
hadnt received the March NOA telling her the account had been sold by J to Lowell  but 
had told them about the change of address. On 2 October 2020 Ms K also said shed called 
Lowell before 15 October 2018 and was told a default wouldnt be registered as shed 
contacted them. Ms K said shed be contacting her phone company to get proof of this.
Our investigator said he could see Ms K had called up on 1 March 2018 and given them an 
email address for her but couldnt see shed given Lowell her new address on this call. He 
added that regardless of this, he wasnt sure why Ms K would say Lowell were asking for an 
unknown amount, when shed contacted them before the payment was attempted  so shed 
be aware Lowell were now the correct company to make payments to. He said that following 
this, even if the address wasnt updated on 1 March 2018, Lowell did contact her with 
several letters and emails  so even if Ms K wasnt initially unaware of why Lowell had set up 
the direct debit, he was satisfied she was aware they wanted her to set up a payment plan 
with them before the account defaulted.
Our investigator said Ms K did miss several payments, so Lowell sent the notice of default 
on 23 August 2018 which prompted her to get in touch on 18 September 2018. He said 
though despite what Ms K had told us, he couldnt see shed got in touch again until 
19 October 2018  after the deadline given by Lowell of 15 October 2018.
Ms K said she didnt agree with the information Lowell had given us. She said the phone 
calls shed mentioned would prove Lowell arent telling us the truth  and repeated she did 
contact them before the default was registered and they said they wouldnt.
Since then Ms K has been trying to get the call logs she says will prove she called Lowell 
before they registered the default. Our investigator gave her a final deadline of 4 June 2021 
for this information to be provided  but to date its not been. Because Ms K didnt agree with 
our investigator the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say how sorry I am to hear of the health concerns Ms K has had. Shes made 
it clear they have a real impact on her life, which Im genuinely sorry to hear of.
I can see Ms K had some concerns over Js actions, but I wanted to make it clear Im only 
considering whether Lowell have acted fairly. And, I can only require Lowell to remove the 
default if Im satisfied theyve made an error that meant it otherwise wouldnt have been 
applied. 
Ms K hasnt disputed being sent lots of letters and emails by Lowell which she didnt reply to 
until 18 September 2018 when she phoned them to ask for more time to prevent the default. 
Shes also not disputed she didnt have any payment arrangement in place even after her 
call with Lowell.
That means at the point Ms K had contacted Lowell, itd been around seven months of 
contact from Lowell about her account, where shes not made a payment to. General 
industry guidance says its good practice to default someone if theyve not made payments 
for between three to six months.
So, I think Lowell have acted fairly by giving Ms K a further 30 days breathing space  and 
then backdating the default. Lowell cant provide the call recording from this conversation 
with Ms K, which I think would have been helpful to hear exactly whats been said. But most organisations will have data retention policies, so I dont draw any adverse inferences from 
Lowell saying they no longer have the call recording because its been too long. Ms K also, 
to date, hasnt been able to provide the call logs she says will prove her assertion she did 
contact Lowell after 18 September 2018 when Lowell gave her 30 days, and 15 October 
2018 when they decided to default her account. 
She first mentioned these call logs on 2 October 2020 and has explained on several 
occasions the issues shes having with providing them. Ive seen no reason to doubt what 
Ms K has said about not being able to send them yet  but its also been nine months from 
the time of issuing this decision since she first mentioned them. Under the circumstances, I 
think weve been more than fair in allowing her the time to submit them.
With that in mind, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, taking into account all 
of the information that is available to me. 
Lowells notes say they need Ms K to call her back before 15 October 2018 if she needs 
more time. Lowell also have no records of her having got back in touch. Ive not been 
provided with anything to show Ms K did get in touch  so I think its more likely than not she 
didnt get in touch by the deadline Lowell set.
It may be helpful for Ms K to know as well, even if she was able to provide evidence she did 
call Lowell before 15 October 2018 as she says, I wouldnt necessarily decide this means Id 
uphold her case. I say that because Lowell had already given Ms K more time than the 
general industry guidance allows  as at the point they chose to default her account it was 
around eight months without any payments. 
From the information I have as well, it seems the reason she needed some time in 
September 2018 was because she had priority bills she was behind on. So, I cant safely say 
shed have been able to make the payments even if Lowell did do something wrong. That 
would mean Ms K would have still been in the same position even if they did do something 
wrong.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied Lowell have acted fairly in defaulting Ms Ks 
account  as shed not made payments to it for around eight months at the time they made 
that decision.
Ive noted Ms K had some concerns about the address which was registered as well. But, as 
Ive said above, Ms K hasnt disputed receiving a number of the letters  most of which were 
correctly addressed after the initial confusion at the beginning of Lowells contact. And she 
gave them an email address, which Lowell said they contacted on several occasions as well. 
So, I dont think any issues regarding this affect whether Lowell acted fairly in defaulting the 
account. 
And, in relation to the initial problems with the direct debit its not clear when she spoke to 
her bank. But regardless of that, she didnt make any payments once she knew she should 
be. So, again, I cant reasonably say Lowell have acted unfairly in defaulting her account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jon PearceOmbudsman