DRN-1880687
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Just Retirement Limited (JRL) has a legal charge over the whole of his 
property, including outbuildings which he says are commercial premises. The complaint has 
been brought by Mr Ws representative, Mr G. To settle the complaint Mr G wants JRL to 
pay to split the title to the property to remove the commercial premises from the property 
charged to JRL.
What happened
In 2011 Mr W took out a lifetime equity release mortgage through JRL. He had a meeting 
with an adviser in his home when the mortgage was discussed. The application form shows 
that Mr W confirmed that the whole of the property was used for residential purposes.
In 2019 Mr W was taking steps to sort out his affairs and appointed Mr G to be his Executor. 
Upon investigating Mr Ws assets, Mr G discovered that the property charged to JRL 
included workshops. Mr W had mistakenly believed these to be held under a separate title 
number, whereas in fact there was just one title number covering the house and 
outbuildings.
Mr W wants JRL to agree to release the outbuildings from the land charged to it, so that 
these can be registered under a separate title number, and for JRL to pay for this to be 
done.
JRL didnt think it had done anything wrong. In its final response letter JRL explained that 
Mr W hadnt mentioned there were commercial premises included in the title. JRL also said 
that the independent valuer who had inspected the premises had referred to three 
outbuildings but hadnt said these were being used for commercial purposes. JRL said that 
if it had been made aware of this, the application wouldnt have met its lending criteria.
Mr G wasnt happy with this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service on Mr Ws 
behalf. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think JRL had done anything wrong.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary he says 
JRLs application process is sloppy, as it doesnt mention commercial premises anywhere. 
Mr G also says that if Mr W had been asked if any commercial activity was being carried out, 
hed have said no, as he mistakenly believed the outbuildings were held under a separate 
title. Mr G argues that its the fault of the adviser and the surveyor to fail to notice that the 
outbuildings were commercial premises.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I confirm Ive looked at the mortgage 
application and valuation and Ive taken note of everything Mr W and Mr G have said.Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr W; Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
The application is in a standard format and I can see that Mr W confirmed that the property 
was residential. Mr G thinks the application process is sloppy, but Im satisfied it complies 
with JRLs regulatory obligations in relation to obtaining the information needed to assess 
the application. I dont have any power to tell JRL how to run its business, but its important 
to note that the sale of equity release lifetime mortgages is subject to a robust advised sale 
process. If an applicant gives an incorrect answer, as Mr W inadvertently did here, then 
thats not the fault of JRL. 
Im satisfied that JRL was entitled to rely on what it was told by Mr W (on the application 
form) and by the independent surveyor who inspected the property. I appreciate Mr W didnt 
realise that the outbuildings were included in the title to the property, which is why he said 
the premises were residential. But the title covered all the premises at the address, which 
should have been explained to Mr W by his solicitors at the time the mortgage was taken 
out. The surveyor also didnt report on any commercial activity being carried out. As a result, 
JRL was not aware Mr W was using part of the premises for commercial activities until it was 
told in 2019. 
In the circumstances, I dont think JRL did anything wrong in taking a charge over the whole 
of the title. There was no separate title for the outbuildings and JRL wasnt aware these were 
being used for business purposes. In the circumstances, no mistake has been made by JRL.
JRL has agreed to release part of the land from its charge so the title can be split. I 
appreciate Mr W is unhappy about the expenses he will incur for this to be done, but I can 
see no basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable to expect JRL to pay for this, when 
no error has been made by JRL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that will I will not be engaging in any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint nor any discussion with the parties about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman