DRN-4091301
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs W complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance for damage to a wall following a storm. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs W had home insurance to cover their property. In November 2021 they were 
away from the property, but were informed that it had been damaged following a storm. This 
included damage to a boundary wall. 
Mr M called AXA to make a claim. Following this he instructed a builder to knock down the 
wall in order to ensure safety, as it backed onto a public pavement. 
In January 2022 AXA sent out a loss adjuster to assess the claim and claims for damage to 
a chimney and roof caused by the same storm. The chimney and roof claims were 
subsequently declined due to wear and tear, however the loss adjuster referred the claim for 
the wall back to AXA, as theyd been unable to inspect the damage as the wall had already 
been completely knocked down.
AXA subsequently declined the claim. It said it had been unable to inspect the damage to 
the wall in order to validate the claim.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said when he first called AXA the call handler had told him 
to do any work required to make the wall safe, and the council had confirmed the wall was a 
safety hazard to those using the pavement. So he had to remove the wall quickly. He was 
also unhappy with the way the claim had been handled and how long it had taken to get an 
answer. He made a complaint.
AXA maintained its position on the claim but offered £75 to make up for some poor service 
and delays. Unhappy with this, Mr M and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he said AXA hadnt been 
provided with enough evidence to validate the claim. Mr M and Mrs W didnt agree with this 
outcome and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
When the complaint came to me I came to a different outcome to our investigator. I wrote to 
both sides to explain my provisional findings. In which I said:
While I could see Mr M had knocked down the wall before AXA had a chance to 
inspect it, I didnt consider that he had acted unreasonably or that he had prejudiced 
its position.
The council visited the property to inspect the wall shortly after the damage was 
caused. It subsequently issued a letter that said the wall was structurally defective 
and posed a risk to the safety of people in the vicinity of it. It said that repairs should 
be carried out to eliminate these risks. 
While AXA arranged a visit to inspect the wall this wasnt until two months after the 
storm event. And as Mr M had been told by the council to take action in the 
meantime, I didnt consider the fact he had the wall demolished to be unreasonable.
Further, Mr M was able to provide AXA with good quality photos of the wall that the 
council took. I thought these are enough for it to make an assessment of the damage 
and decide whether the claim would be accepted under the policy terms. So I didnt 
agree that he prejudiced AXAs position.
I said that I was minded to require AXA to consider Mr Ms claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. And as it had delayed Mr M getting a decision on 
his claim I was minded to ask AXA to pay him an additional £100 compensation to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Response to my provisional findings
AXA didnt accept my provisional findings. It responded to say: 
It had already arranged a visit to inspect the wall and Mr M chose to have it 
demolished, rather than waiting to have it inspected. 
It didnt agree the council told Mr M to demolish the wall as it was in no major danger 
of immediate collapse.
The photos were not enough to be able to validate the claim as they show some 
damage but arent enough to show what caused the damage.
Mr M and Mrs W responded and accepted my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what AXA has said but it hasnt changed my position. While the council didnt 
explicitly instruct Mr M to demolish the wall, it did say it was his responsibility to ensure its 
safety and that it posed an immediate risk. I therefore dont consider it unreasonable that Mr 
M promptly instructed a builder. And as the wall was leaning onto a pavement, it isnt 
unreasonable that to ensure safety this was demolished.
While I appreciate an in-person inspection will usually be a preferable option, as Mr M took 
reasonable action and was able to provide clear photos of the condition of the wall, I dont 
agree this prevents AXA from making a fair decision on the claim. It isnt uncommon practice 
for insurers to carry out desktop assessments and I think Mr M has provided sufficient 
evidence for such an assessment to be completed.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded to depart from my original findings and will require 
AXA to consider Mr Ms claim and pay him and additional £100 compensation as previously 
laid out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr M and Mrs Ws complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to:
Consider their claim for the damage to the wall under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay them an additional £100 compensation to make up for the delay its caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman