DRN-3833287
The complaint
Mr A complains about Tesco Underwriting Limited and the length of time its taking for his 
insurance claim to be settled.
What happened
Mr A held a car insurance policy that was underwritten by Tesco. In November 2019, Mr A 
was involved in a road traffic accident and so, he made a claim on this insurance policy. The 
third party admitted liability and so, Tesco looked to recoup the repair costs from them. But 
they were unable to agree this and so, Tesco instructed solicitors, who Ill refer to as H, to 
pursue the claim via the necessary legal channels.
In May 2021, our service looked into a previous complaint Mr A raised about Tesco relating 
to the claim. And our service recommended Tesco pay Mr A £150 to recognise their failure 
to keep Mr A updated during the claim process. This was agreed, and the £150 was paid.
But Mr A feels as though the claim has continued to be delayed. And he feels as though 
Tesco still failed to provide him with fair and reasonable updates, so he complained to Tesco 
again in early 2022.
Tesco responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought theyd maintained 
regular contact with Mr A since May 2021. And they explained the claim status remained 
unchanged due to difficulties faced in recovering their costs from the third-party insurer, 
which they were unable to control. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
A remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised the claim 
remained outstanding and they thought this was unreasonable. So, they thought Tesco 
should pay Mr A £150 to recognise the inconvenience hed been caused due to the delays in 
settling the claim. 
Tesco didnt agree. They explained the claim was with H so they had no control over the 
time the claim was taking to settle. They explained the claim was awaiting a court date due 
to the defence submitted by the third-party insurer and so, they explained the claim couldnt 
be moved forward until this date was provided. Tesco thought theyd done all they could to 
chase H and update Mr A from May 2021 and so, they didnt think they should pay anything 
more. And Mr A explained his premiums had increased due to the open claim and so, he 
wanted conditions to be put in place and deadlines set for the settlement of the claim. As our 
investigators recommendation wasnt accepted by both parties, the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2022, where I explained by intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Before I explain why I intend to not uphold the complaint, I think it would be useful for me to 
explain exactly what Im able to consider and what I can hold Tesco responsible for at this 
point in the claim.
Our service has already investigated Mr As complaint about the service he received prior to 
May 2021. So, this decision focuses solely on the actions taken during the claim after this 
date.
And Ive seen that, as Tesco were unable to settle the claim with the third-party insurer 
directly, they appointed H to pursue the claim via legal channels. So crucially at this point, H 
became responsible for the progression of the claim, and not Tesco. And H are a law firm, 
who are regulated by an entirely separate regulator in an entirely separate sector. So, Im 
unable to consider the actions H have taken nor am I able to direct H to take any specific 
action regarding the progression of the claim.
And because of this, although Tesco did appoint H, I dont think Tesco are responsible for 
the actions H have taken. Nor do I think Tesco are able to influence the decisions H make, 
or how long it has taken H to make them.
I can see our investigator recommended Tesco pay Mr A £150, to recognise Hs decision to 
return to the third-party insurer when it was unnecessary. But because of the above, I dont 
think Tesco were responsible for H deciding to do so, and so it follows that I dont think I can 
say Tesco should compensate Mr A for this.
I can see the claim has taken a significant amount of time to progress, without any 
settlement as of yet. And I do appreciate the upset this will have caused Mr A. But I can see 
a lot of this delay can be attributed to the third-party insurer and their failure to respond to 
Tesco and H, as well as delays in the court process while a date is waiting to be set. I dont 
think Tesco are responsible for, or able to influence, the delays caused by the third party 
insurer or the courts and so, while I understand Mr As upset, I dont think Tesco are 
responsible for the delays in the claim.
And it follows that I dont think Tesco have acted unfairly by keeping the claim open, as it 
has yet to be settled and so, they havent recouped the repair costs theyve paid. So, while I 
understand Mr A is having to declare an open claim when looking to take out insurance, I 
dont think Tesco are responsible or at fault for any potential premium increase.
Im aware Mr A is also unhappy with the lack of updates hes received from Tesco, since our 
service upheld his complaint in May 2021. But having considered Tescos internal and 
contact notes, I think Tesco have updated Mr A in a fair and reasonable manner since.
From what Ive seen, Tesco have called Mr A to update him on several occasions. While 
these calls may not have been on the exact date they were diarised, I dont think this means 
Tesco have acted unfairly. Its important to note that for much of the period Ive considered, 
there havent been meaningful updates to provide as H have been awaiting contact, or 
action, from the third-party insurer. But despite this, I can see Tesco have made specific 
attempts to update Mr A within reasonable periods of time.
And while I appreciate there have been occasions where Mr A has called Tesco for an 
update, rather than receive an update from them, I dont think this automatically means 
Tesco have acted unfairly. As Ive explained above, for periods of time there were no 
meaningful updates to provide. So, I dont think Tesco had a responsibility to provide set updates at set times, where this update wouldve been no value. And where Mr A has called 
them and received an update, I wouldnt expect Tesco to provide another update in the 
immediate time after where the situation hasnt changed.
So, while I do recognise the claim has been ongoing for an extended period of time, and I do 
appreciate why Mr A would be keen to understand what was going on and when a 
settlement date was likely to be agreed, I dont think Tesco are able to control this. Nor do I 
think Tesco are responsible for the time the claim has been open. So, while I recognise the 
inconvenience and frustration Mr A has felt, I dont think this is because of anything Tesco 
has done wrong since May 2021. Because of this, I dont intend to ask Tesco to do anything 
further.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I understand it doesnt help Mr A 
speed up the claim process. But the claim outcome, and the length of time it will take to 
conclude, is the responsibility of H. If Mr A is unhappy with this, he should look to discuss 
this with H directly.
Responses
Tesco responded to my provisional decision noting its comments and providing no further 
comments. And Mr A didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial decision. I havent received any 
comments from either party that persuade me to alter the initial provisional decision Ive 
reached. So, I dont think Tesco are responsible for the delays to the settlement of the claim, 
nor do I think Tesco have acted unfairly or unreasonably to Mr A in the way they have 
communicated since May 2021. So, I dont think they need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Tesco Underwriting 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman