DRN-4217727
The complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing though an agreement with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED, who Ill call Startline
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Startline, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms M. The car here was about 
six years old and had already completed about 68,000 miles. 
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault on a car that 
renders it of unsatisfactory quality. The engine was replaced on this car in the first few 
weeks, and I think that was the business repair opportunity.
The independent inspector who looked at the car in August 2022 thought there was a further 
fault with the car. He thought there was a transmission fault that would have been present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Ms M and that the transmission had minimal future 
life expectancy. The relevant legislation explains that in those circumstances the business 
should allow the consumer to reject the goods and I think thats what Startline should have 
done.
There was a further inspection of this car in August 2022, and I can see that the engineer in 
that instance made no comment on the transmission. Im not persuaded that suggests a 
transmission fault didnt exist. I can see that the independent engineer who identified the 
transmission problem is very experienced in these matters, and hes explained the 
symptoms that were present that led him to the conclusion he reached. Ultimately, I dont 
think its likely such an error would have disappeared or that the independent engineer got it 
wrong. 
Putting things right
The agreement has already been terminated and the car has been returned.
Startline should refund Ms Ms deposit/ part exchange contribution and, as shes been 
deprived of that money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Ms M returned the car to the dealership on 29 July 2022 when she wasnt happy with its 
performance. Given my findings I dont think that was unreasonable. Whilst she had fair use 
of the car prior to that date (or was provided with a courtesy car), it wouldnt be fair for her to 
pay instalments towards the car after that date as she had no use of it. Startline will need to 
refund any instalments paid on or before 29 July 2022 and they will need to add interest to 
that refund.
Ms M has had to commission a diagnostic report on the cars condition in order to support 
her claim. I think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, Startline will need to refund the £118 that cost Ms M if she can 
provide them with proof of payment.
Ms M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and has had to arrange a diagnostic and, on occasion, to 
use public transport. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Startline should pay her £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell STARTLINE MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to:
Refund any deposit or part exchange contribution that has been paid and add 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any rentals paid from July 2022 (incl), in respect of the loss of use Ms M had 
of the car. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Refund the cost of Ms Ms diagnostic report on provision of receipts and add 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms M £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Ms Ms credit file in 
relation to this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if the consumer asks 
for one.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman