DRN-3567831
The complaint
A business, which Ill refer to as T, complains AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided a business 
protection insurance policy and refused to pay a claim. 
Mr H, the owner of T, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr H purchased a business protection insurance policy for T online in April 2021. 
Two claims were made on the policy within a relatively short space of time, one concerning 
Mr Hs ability to work and another for a burglary. AXA proactively made payments on the 
sickness claim while further information was being gathered - ensuring Mr H wasnt 
disadvantaged by any delays. 
As part of its information gathering exercise AXA discovered Mr H had county court 
judgements (CCJs) registered against him. It explained to Mr H it wouldnt be making any 
further claim payments to him and it would be avoiding Ts policy. AXA said that the CCJs 
were not declared to it when the policy was taken out and had they been, a policy wouldnt 
have been offered to T. 
Mr H made a complaint to AXA, on Ts behalf, about its decision, however AXA didnt 
change its position. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and explained to Mr H that she didnt think AXA 
had done anything wrong. She thought it had avoided the policy in line with the relevant law 
and policy terms. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he 
took the policy out late at night and doesnt think he would have ticked a box to confirm he 
didnt have any CCJs. He added that someone phoned him the next day to sell more cover 
to him and he enquired about cover for Covid-19 related losses. Mr H also added that he 
thinks AXA should have been aware of this information sooner and that it performed credit 
checks on him in July and December 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mr H took out the policy on behalf of T, he had a duty 
to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of 
risk, the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to 
know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk 
and on what terms. From looking at the documents provided by AXA, its clear that when 
taking out the policy Mr H was asked to agree to the statement that he had not been subject 
to any CCJs in the previous five years.  From what Ive seen here, Im satisfied that Mr H 
didnt provide a fair presentation of the risk. And that he made a misrepresentation.
Under the Insurance Act in order for AXA to take any action, it has to show that there has 
been a qualifying misrepresentation. This means that it needs to show that if it had been 
given the correct information it would either have not offered the insurance policy at all or 
would have offered it on different terms. AXA has provided evidence to this service which 
shows that it would not have offered a policy to cover T. So Im satisfied that a qualifying 
misrepresentation was made and AXA was fair in avoiding the policy. 
I understand Mr H has said he was called the next day in order to be sold more cover. AXA 
has confirmed a copy of that call is no longer available. I thought about this, but I dont think 
it makes a difference here as by that point, Mr H had already purchased the policy and made 
the misrepresentation. The correct information still wasnt available to AXA at that point. 
The fact AXA has made some claim payments to Mr H doesnt change my decision here 
either, Im satisfied that the correct information regarding the CCJs wasnt made available to 
AXA when the policy was taken out. It made the claim payments in absence of that 
knowledge and without full information regarding the claim being in its possession, so as not 
to disadvantage Mr H, and T by the delays. When the true position was discovered, no 
further payments were made to Mr H. Albeit it took a while for AXA to explain why this had 
happened to Mr H. AXA has not asked for those claim payments to be returned, although 
strictly speaking it would be entitled to do so. Based on the circumstances Mr H and T are in, 
I think it has acted fairly and reasonably in this instance.
Mr H has said that he thinks AXA should have carried out checks when he took the policy 
out. It isnt my role to dictate how an insurer should carry out its day to day activities. And as, 
I mentioned above, in a commercial policy, the onus is on the policyholder to disclose 
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in 
deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding this complaint. I think AXA has acted 
fairly and reasonably in avoiding Ts policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ts complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman