DRN-3625624
The complaint
D (a limited company) complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) were unfair in avoiding 
their property insurance policy. Reference to D will include that of their representative.
What happened
D owns a property insured by UKI. Unfortunately, the property was damaged by a fire, so D 
made a claim on their policy.
UKI looked into Ds claim and felt theyd misrepresented the risk theyd been asked to 
insure. Because of that, UKI avoided Ds policy. That meant the claim would not be covered, 
UKI also retained Ds premiums.
D didnt think that was fair. While they appeared to agree there were discrepancies in their 
application, they considered them to be technicalities. For instance, that while the property 
may not have been watertight at the time the policy was taken out, it had been made so 
shortly afterward. And that was before the fire damage occurred.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they concluded that D had misrepresented the 
risk. And they said that as UKI had followed the remedies set out in the Insurance Act 2015 
(the Act) the policy avoidance had been reasonable.
D disagreed, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI have cited a number of concerns with the application, however, I dont think they all 
require detailed commentary. I have focussed on what I consider to be the main one.
D accepts that the property wasnt watertight at the time the policy was taken out. That 
means their agreement to the following statement was incorrect:
Your property(ies):
do not require any repair or refurbishment to make them secure or water tight and will 
be so maintained
The relevant legislation in relation to matters such as this is the Act referred to above. That 
put a duty of fair presentation upon D to provide a fair presentation of the risk to UKI. And a 
fair presentation of the risk is one:
in which every material representation as to a matter of fact is substantially correct, and 
every material representation as to a matter of expectation is made in good faith
That disclosure is required as follows:
disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know
So, as it is accepted that D was aware of the condition of the property yet said otherwise to 
UKI, they did not follow the duty upon them. UKI clearly wanted an assurance of the 
condition of the property but was misled, and because D knew their answer was incorrect, 
they made whats known as a deliberate or reckless qualifying breach of the Act. That is to 
say D knew they were in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or did not care whether or 
not they were in breach of that duty.
UKI have confirmed that they would not have entered into the contract of insurance with D, if 
they had said the property wasnt watertight. That means the remedy available to them is 
that they:
may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and need not return any of the premiums 
paid
That is what UKI did, so I dont think I can agree that their following of the Act was unfair. I 
have, nevertheless, considered Ds arguments that the particular circumstances of this case 
make it so.
D say that the property was made watertight within a week or two of the insurance being 
taken out and that there was a very short window during which the risk was greater than that 
UKI had agreed to insure. D also say that the property had been made watertight before the 
fire and therefore the answer to the question was immaterial  because if the policy had 
been applied for immediately before the fire, it would still have been provided. D also says 
the condition of the property had nothing to do with the fire.
While I understand these arguments and why D believes UKI have relied on a technicality to 
avoid their policy, all UKI has done is follow the Act  which theyre entitled to do in the 
circumstances which arose. In view of this, I cant say what UKI did was unfair even though I 
can understand where D is coming from. And to give some balance  seeing as were 
impartial  while D say its unfair to avoid the policy, it could be said that it would be unfair to 
require UKI to settle the claim. If D had given accurate answers UKI wouldnt have been on 
risk for the property and wouldnt have been facing a large insurance claim.
For that reason alone, UKI was entitled to avoid Ds policy although as explained earlier 
there were other reasons. I wont go into them all, or in detail, but Ill cover off briefly some of 
the other arguments D has made.
UKI didnt believe the property was fully occupied, which was something else D said. D has 
said the inclusion of the word fully isnt clear and that he was using the property daily. But, 
as above, even if you could argue the property was fully occupied, UKI was entitled to avoid 
the policy. And, if D was just using the property for a few hours a day, I dont think youd say 
that was fully occupied  especially as refurbishment was ongoing. 
D say the literature provided in relation to the policy is misleading too. That said:
WARNING  YOU MUST CHECK ALL OF THE INFORMATION IN THE SCHEDULE AND 
THIS STATEMENT OF FACT AND TELL US IMMEDIATELY IF ANY DETAILS ARE 
INCORRECT, INCOMPLETE OR HAVE BEEN OMITTED FAILURE TO DO SO MAY MEAN 
THAT YOUR INSURANCE POLICY IS NOT VALID OR THAT WE MAY NOT PAY ALL OR 
PART OF YOUR CLAIM(S)D take issue with the use of the word may. I dont think that word was used inappropriately, 
because there are circumstances  outlined in the Act  where incorrect information cannot 
be used as a reason to avoid the policy or refuse claims. For example, if it diminishes the 
risk. A property which isnt watertight does not diminish the risk of damage to it.
Overall, UKI has followed the Act and theyve done so correctly, so Im not upholding Ds 
complaint.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman