DRN-2337054
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, ought not to have 
included two loans into its report to the credit reference agency or agencies which then 
recorded them as settled on his personal credit file. 
What happened
Mr Y applied for and was approved for two loans with Shelby Finance. They were for 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months. Using the information from Shelby Finance 
and Mr Y here is a summary of the current position. Credit reference agency is referred to 
as CRA in this decision.  
Loan Date loan taken Amount Withdrawal 
notification dateRepaid Mr Ys 
credit file
1 14 January 2020 £400 27 January 2020 11 February 
2020Closed and 
settled
2 15 February 
2020£400 15 February 2020 28 February 
2020Closed and 
settled
Mr Y exercised his right to withdraw from the agreements within a certain time period. This is 
a protection added the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) by insertion of section 66A CCA
by The Consumer Credit (EU Directive) Regulations 2010 (S.I. 2010/1010, {regs. 13}, 99(1) 
(with regs. 100, 101) (as amended by The Consumer Credit (Amendment) Regulations 2010 
(S.I. 2010/1969), reg. 8 (with reg. 46)). Section 66A is not set out here as its lengthy. 
Extracts of that section are reproduced later in the decision.
The legislation, in brief, gives the borrower the right to withdraw. Notice must be given by the 
borrower to the lender within a certain time period and in a prescribed manner and does not 
apply to all agreements. It does apply to the agreements Mr Y took with Shelby Finance. 
Having withdrawn, the borrower must repay the amount of credit given plus any accrued 
interest and within a certain period. Failure to repay would mean that the lender could 
pursue the borrower for a debt. 
Mr Y is relying on section 66A (7) CCA which states that after a successful withdrawal the 
agreement is treated as if never having been entered into. Mr Y has said to us that 
I understand the legislation is intended that the borrower can go back to the position they 
were at before they entered into the agreement without being left at a disadvantage. Having 
short term loans on my credit report is undoubtedly a disadvantage. I come back to this in 
the main part of my decision. 
Mr Y asked Shelby Finance to remove the two loans from his credit history but he says it 
refused to do that. He referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr Y has referred us to an earlier published decision by one of the ombudsman at this 
service. He says that the case is the same as his and so the outcome of his complaint ought 
to be the same. In that other case that ombudsman had thought it fair for the lender to be 
asked to remove the loans from that other borrowers credit file.  
 
Mr Y says that having these payday loans in my credit history will prevent me from getting a 
mortgage for six years. His preferred solution is for Shelby Finance to remove them from his 
credit file. 
Shelby Finance has referred to the legislation, the terms and conditions in the agreements 
with Mr Y and its compliance department has said 
the reference in the CCA to the agreement being treated as if it had never been 
entered into means that neither party retains any obligation to the other once the 
withdrawal has been successfully concluded, but does not require lenders to delete 
all record of the loan from their CRA reporting.
Shelby Finance has referred us to the Steering Committee on Reciprocity (SCOR) which it 
says require lenders to reflect successfully withdrawn loans at the CRAs as settled, rather 
than deleted.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Shelby Finance had done 
nothing wrong. Mr Y disagreed and so the complaint remained unresolved and was passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read and reviewed the legislation, the EU Directive which inserted section 66A into 
the CCA, lawyers commentary on it, and guidance surrounding the legislation, I have also 
looked at the background to the SCOR, its origins and why it was created. 
I have used the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies where the ICO says in the Foreword: 
The principles in this document have been drawn up by the credit industry in 
collaboration with the ICO. The ICO will continue to work with the industry to ensure 
that these principles remain up to date and that the privacy rights of individuals are 
respected. This Principles document goes on to explain (original emphasis retained):
The operation of CRAs in the UK is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority but 
the day to day activities are governed by several laws that cover aspects of credit 
referencing such as:
 
oThe Data Protection Act 
oThe Representation of the People Act 
oThe Consumer Credit Act 
oThe Companies Act 
However, the main legislation is the Data Protection Act 2018 and the regulator is the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
How CRAs operate is agreed with the ICO and the purpose of this document is to set 
out the principles under which information about arrears, arrangements and 
defaults are filed with the CRAs. 
These principles will be of interest to regulators, lenders and consumers and their 
representatives.
And it is these principles on which the SCOR has drawn. The introduction to SCOR 
describes it as a cross-credit industry reference guide and it includes recommended best 
practice. The document is intended to promote commonality and consistency across the 
industry. 
So, its reasonable and I would say expected, that Shelby Finance turned to that agreed and 
ICO approved industry guide when determining its approach to Mr Ys withdrawn loans. And 
Shelby Finance has explained that it followed section 9.1 which states that the agreement 
should be recorded as a settled account. 
Mr Y has referred to a previous decision by another ombudsman at this service. All 
complaints are dealt with individually and there is no concept of precedent as each 
complaint is different. I have read that decision and it refers to cancellation as well as 
withdrawal and so the facts of that case may have been very different to those surrounding 
Mr Ys. And that ombudsman has not referred to the SCOR or the Principles document in 
her reasoning in her decision. So, I think that the other case may have been very different to 
Mr Ys and the ombudsman for that decision approached it in a different way. So, I feel 
satisfied that I can approach Mr Ys complaint on its own facts, as I always do, without 
needing to explain further why my decision may differ to that earlier published decision. 
Turning to the Principles referred to earlier, then I think that Principles 1 and 5 are the two 
relevant for Mr Y. I set them out here:  
1. Data that is reported on your credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete 
and up to date. 
5. When an account is closed, the record should properly reflect the closing payment 
status of the account and any agreement between the parties
Turning to the legislation, I have noted Mr Ys point that he thinks that the borrower can 
go back to the position they were at before they entered into the agreement without being 
left at a disadvantage. But s66A CCA does not say that. And there are many sections to 
s66A not just s66A (7) on which Mr Y has relied. And there are no other sections in S66A 
which uses that terminology. So, I do not accept that Mr Ys understanding of what he thinks 
the legislation is designed to achieve is correct.And the credit agreement, once the borrower has successfully exercised the right to 
withdraw from it, does not become void but rather is described as treated as if it had never 
been entered into. I set out the subsection here in full: 
S 66A 
(7) Subject as follows, where the debtor withdraws from a regulated consumer credit 
agreement under this section
(a) the agreement shall be treated as if it had never been entered into, and
(b) where an ancillary service relating to the agreement is or is to be provided by the 
creditor, or by a third party on the basis of an agreement between the third party and the 
creditor, the ancillary service contract shall be treated as if it had never been entered into.
The whole of s66A when read together (not just one subsection such as s66A (7)) is clear 
that there are still some obligations which remain after a successful withdrawal, and where 
its not clear that section provides for it to provide clarity. So, one example of this clarity 
provided by the legislation is that the borrower must repay what is owed and failure to do so 
will leave the lender with the legal right to pursue the borrower as a debtor (s66 (10)). And 
another example is where if there is any passing of title for goods - for instance for a hire-
purchase agreement - s66A (11) makes clear provision that where the borrower (debtor) 
withdraws but has repaid what is owed to the lender in full, then 
title to the goods purchased or supplied under the agreement is to pass to the debtor on 
the same terms as would have applied had the debtor not withdrawn from the agreement.
So, my view is that the section when read as a whole was never intended to lead to a 
situation where the original agreement is void or extinguished completely. Ultimately 
interpretation of legislation is a matter for the Courts, but here I make these points in order to 
explain why it is I do not agree with what Mr Y thinks a successful withdrawal results in.  
Applying the Principles 1 and 5 then it does seem clear to me that registering the 
agreements as having been successfully settled or closed because they have been paid 
would be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date.
Turning to the impact Shelby Finances actions may have had on Mr Y - I have thought 
about what Mr Y has said about the nature of his loans. He says that the very fact they were 
payday loans means that just having them on his credit file is going to be disadvantageous 
to him. There may be some merit in that, as I am aware that such loans can, in some 
circumstances, have an element of prejudice associated with them  whether justified or not 
 and I make no finding on that aspect. But what I have concluded is this:
Mr Y has said he plans to become a homeowner in the future and so he thinks it will 
hinder him. But Mr Y has not told us that he has applied for a mortgage and so his 
concern is for a future event which may or may not come to pass; and
Mr Y has not demonstrated that he has been refused a mortgage and that the refusal 
was because of the presence of these loans recorded on his credit file; and
the screenshots of the recorded agreements on Mr Ys credit file refer to them as 
loans and as Closed and Account Settled and show green ticks. They are not 
described or categorised as Advance against income or as an unsecured loan 
which is often how payday loans are referred to on credit files; and 
instalment loans for six months are not usually treated or referred to as payday 
loans. They may be high-cost but ultimately are instalment loans. Mr Y has not demonstrated any harm or that there has been any impact on him. And 
therefore, even if I did conclude that the reporting was unfair or inaccurate, which I do not, 
I do not think that there have been any consequences flowing from that reporting.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman