DRN-2860439
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to deal 
with a request to transfer his pension savings to another product in a timely manner. As a 
result he says the value of his pension savings was reduced by approximately £36,000.
What happened
Mr C held a drawdown pension within Prudentials Flexible Retirement Plan (FRP). On 12 
March 2020, after the Covid 19 pandemic had been announced, Mr Cs Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA) advised him to switch from his FRP to Prudentials Retirement 
Account. This was because the Retirement Account allows changes  including fund 
switches - to be processed online. This functionality was deemed useful in view of the 
previous market volatility brought about by the pandemic.
The FRPs key features document explains how Unit Price Adjustments (UPAs) can be 
applied. It states: The PruFund funds have an established smoothing process which uses 
Expected Growth Rates, and where required, Unit Price Adjustments, to deliver a smoothed 
investment journey. It aims to provide you with some protection from the extreme short-term 
ups and downs of direct investment. However, the value of your investment can go down as 
well as up so you might get back less than you put in. 
For the PruFund range of funds, we may decide to reset the unit price of a PruFund Fund to 
the unsmoothed price on a particular day, to protect the With-Profits Fund. 
Mr Cs IFA was aware of the potential for UPAs. The terms and conditions for the Retirement 
Account show that a similar adjustment is also possible within that account. 
Mr Cs request to transfer into the Retirement Account was initiated on 12 March 2020. 
Prudential created the transfer request work item needed on 13 March 2020. But on 17 
March 2020, a negative Unit Price Adjustment (UPA) of 11.99% was applied to Mr Cs FRP 
before the transfer had been completed.
On 18 March 2020 the FRP team started work on Mr Cs transfer request. But noted that Mr 
Cs income payment was already in the BACS run due to leave on 20 March 2020. Given 
this, the FRP team needed to wait for the income payment to reach its due date, when the 
units would be deducted from the FRP. They updated the transfer system to let the 
Retirement Account team know there would be a disinvestment delay due to the pending 
income payment. The transfer value price date for Mr Cs transfer was taken as at 21 March 
2020.
Mr Cs IFA said he advised the same change from the FRP to the Retirement Account for 16 
of his other clients. He said that he made the request for Mr Cs transfer first. He said all of 
his other 16 clients were transferred to the Retirement Account on 16 March 2020, before 
the UPA took effect. So he complained to Prudential on Mr Cs behalf. He felt that they 
hadnt adopted the principles of Treating Customers Fairly  a regulatory requirement - for 
Mr C. He felt that Prudential should backdate the transfer as if it took place on 16 March 
2020.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. They said that the transfer request had been 
processed within their standard timescale of five working days. They said that as there are 
several work queues, transfer requests arent processed in chronological order. They noted 
how Mr Cs income payment had been processed. And they said that each stage of the 
transfer process had been processed within their service level agreement timescales.
Unhappy with their response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think Prudential had acted unfairly or unreasonably. He felt that theyd followed the 
terms and conditions on Mr Cs policy.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that in an email from Prudential dated 14 April 2020 it stated that 
only three working days were required to discharge funds before an income payment is due. 
If this was the case, his transfer couldve been carried out before the UPA was applied to his 
FRP. So his complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr C and his IFA have provided some detailed information to support his complaint and I 
thank them for that. Its clear that, in an ideal world, Prudential couldve transferred his 
pension savings from the FRP to the Retirement Account sooner. This couldve meant that 
Mr C avoided the UPA that was applied on 17 March 2020. Despite that, having looked at all 
the evidence, Im not persuaded that Prudential did anything wrong.
When Mr C made his transfer request, it was against a backdrop of great market volatility. 
So Prudential were facing a degree of pressure on their investment funds I think it fair to 
assume that meant that there were a number of other consumers in a similar position to Mr 
C, making similar requests to transfer or disinvest their pension savings. At the point Mr C 
made his transfer request, it couldnt be known that a UPA was imminent. 
Prudential said: When cases are keyed on [the transfer system], they are not allocated in 
chronological order. Cases are allocated into several work queues to be actioned within the 
5-day SLA. They also said that their Service Level Agreement (SLA) for starting work on a 
transfer request is five working days. And that this is deemed to be reasonable by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.  
Prudential also said: a customer may not have been mistreated just because they know a 
separate request/ requests for another/ other customers was processed more quickly than 
their one. This does not necessarily mean we have treated that customer unfairly as is the 
case with Mr Cs. Each clients plan is unique and I cannot comment on why another clients 
case was processed quicker. As I am sure you can appreciate there may be factors for this 
such as another client not having an income payment going through the BACS run.
Mr Cs request was picked up after three working days, so within Prudentials five-day SLA. 
Although its clear from his IFAs experience that other clients experienced a quicker 
process, this wasnt guaranteed. Mr Cs transfer request was additionally complicated by his 
income payments.
Prudential confirmed to this service that income payments from the FRP were made to Mr C on a monthly basis. They said that the payment date was usually the 20th of the month. And 
explained that they needed to disinvest the monies in time for the payment to go in the 
BACS run.  The disinvestment usually occurred between 15th  17th of the month.
Prudential also said that their terms and conditions advise that any income payment will be 
made first and then the new transfer value calculated the day after. Having reviewed Section 
23 of the FRP Technical Guide which covers transfers out, Im satisfied that this is correct. 
Its undeniable that if Mr Cs transfer request had been progressed more quickly he mightve 
avoided the reductions in value that the UPA imposed. But Prudential have said that as Mr C 
received income payments from his FRP, his transfer was always going to be subject to the 
UPA on 17 March 2020, given the date of the transfer request. They said that the terms and 
conditions of the FRP state that two weeks is required to stop income payments. Section 18 
of the FRP Technical Guide  Benefits payable to the member, lump sum and income 
payments confirms under 18.13 that two weeks notice is needed to stop an income 
payment. So, given Mr Cs pending income payment was less than two weeks away at the 
point of his transfer request, the earliest the transfer could take place under the FRPs terms 
and conditions was the day after the income payment.
There was no requirement for Prudential to process Mr Cs transfer request sooner than they 
did. However, Mr C and his IFA have asked me to consider the information included in an 
internal Prudential email theyve had sight of. 
Information included in 14 April 2020 internal Prudential email
This email contained the following question and answer:
Question: Would you confirm how far in advance of income payment date can we discharge 
the funds before the income is due?
Answer: On BaNCS income payment are released in the BACS payment run 3 working 
days before the income payment is due to be in the P/holders account.
Mr C and his IFA said that this information shows that Prudential had enough time to 
complete his transfer request despite the pending income payment. Mr C has also asked me 
to confirm what further evidence Prudential have provided this service with to show that they 
cant discharge funds within three working days. 
I acknowledge that the 14 April 2020 email Mr C has seen contains information that looks 
inconsistent with the terms and conditions. But Prudential said that the information in the 14 
April 2020 email was an internal email which shouldnt have been shared. They said that the 
timescale to stop an income payment is two weeks, as detailed in the terms and conditions, 
not three working days. They also noted that the 14 April 2020 email went on to state that 
the key to how long a transfer will take to process is the date that the team process the 
transfer claim. That email stated: So although the transfer request might have been 
received 5 working days before the income is due if we did not pick up the transfer to deal 
until day 2/3 then the income would then be in the BACS payment run and we could not 
process until the units had been deducted from the plan which happens on the income due 
date. Mr Cs transfer request was picked up after three working days, so he found himself in 
the position explained here.
Given the 14 April 2020 email, I think its important for me to make the very clear distinction 
between what Prudential could do, and what Prudential should do. Their internal email 
shows what is possible under certain circumstances. But their terms and conditions express 
their commitment to certain timescales for certain processes. The 14 April 2020 email also clearly states that in cases where the transfer request isnt picked up immediately, the 
pending income payment can cause a delay to the transfer process. So this e-mail explains 
both whats possible, but also how it might work in practice  possibly leading to a delayed 
transfer due to the pending income payment. And Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask Prudential to commit to the minimum possible timescales covered in their 
14 April 2020 email given the additional explanation that email included. And given the terms 
and conditions clearly state the timescales a customer should expect. 
I also note that the FRPs terms and conditions dont explicitly outline how long a transfer will 
take. Looking at the transfer process from start to finish and taking account of the 
complicating factor of the income payment, Im satisfied that the transfer was dealt with in a 
reasonable timescale.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr C. But the available evidence 
doesnt support the position that Prudential made a mistake or failed to meet the terms and 
conditions under his pension policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman