DRN-2220939
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about issues she had in funding the savings account she had set up 
with Shawbrook Bank Limited. 
Mrs C is represented by Mr T.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
An online application was completed to set up a savings account for Mrs C on 16 
April 2020. The terms of the account explain that the savings account needs to be 
funded through a nominated account and that this account needs to be in the 
customers name. This didnt initially happen and so contact was made. I find the 
actions taken by Shawbrook Bank regarding this initial issue were reasonable and I 
note Mr Ts comment that this issue no longer forms part of Mrs Cs complaint.  
I understand that Mrs C wanted to fund her account and that it must have been very 
frustrating that this wasnt possible due to issues experienced with Shawbrook 
Banks systems between 27 and 29 April. I note the comments that the website didnt 
say there was an issue and so several attempts were made to log in before calling 
the bank. Then the information provided was to keep trying as it wasnt sure when 
the issue would be resolved. I can see this isnt the service Mrs C would expect and 
meant she spent time trying unsuccessfully to access her account.
However, Shawbrook Bank has explained that the outage wasnt planned and so 
notice couldnt be given to customers. When the system was experiencing issues, it 
spent its time trying to resolve this as quickly as possible. It has said that it didnt 
notify customers when the issue had been resolved but I can see that Mrs C was 
able to fund her account on 29 April and so she wasnt caused any delay because of 
this. 
Mrs C didnt suffer a financial loss as the funding of her account was back dated to 
16 April  when her application was made. This was before the issue with the 
nominated account had been resolved meaning her funding date was earlier than 
would have happened without the outage.
I appreciate that Mrs C doesnt think £25 compensation is enough to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the two days when she couldnt access the 
account. I note the comments made about another case where more compensation 
was provided. I consider each case based on its individual merits. In this case I find 
that Shawbrook Bank acted reasonably by back dating the funding date of Mrs Cs 
account and providing her with compensation for the access issue she experienced. I 
have nothing to suggest that Mrs C was caused any material distress due to the 
issue and so while I appreciate the comments made, I do not require Shawbrook 
Bank to do anything further in resolution of this complaint.  
For the reasons set up above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman