DRN-1581470
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) handled 
his mortgage account. Mr Ts complaint falls into the following broad categories:
The mortgage was mis-sold.
His request for a term extension was turned down.
His monthly payment was miscalculated.
The fees he was charged were excessively high.
The details of this complaint are extensive and go back many years. As they are well known 
to both parties I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was mis-sold
The mortgage was arranged by a mortgage broker - a third-party company unconnected with 
Birmingham Midshires. The application form was filled in and submitted to Birmingham 
Midshires, which set up the mortgage as requested. It seems Birmingham Midshires neither 
met with nor spoke to Mr T, and it didnt give him any advice about the suitability of the 
mortgage.
Where a mortgage application was made through a third-party intermediary, such as 
happened here, there was no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate the role of the 
intermediary. At the time this mortgage was sold, the responsibility for any advice that may 
have been given about suitability lay with the intermediary rather than with the lender.
The lender had a duty to lend responsibly which, generally speaking, it could at the time 
discharge by relying on the information supplied by the intermediary. If, in Birmingham 
Midshires commercial judgement, it was satisfied with the information provided by the 
intermediary about the customers circumstances it was within its rights to do so. There was 
no regulatory requirement at that time for it to validate the information or check the suitability 
of the advice. 
The regulatory requirements for mortgage lending have changed substantially over the last 
few years. But I can only consider this complaint based on the regulations and normal 
industry practice at the time, and without the use of hindsight or the latest rules.
Having looked at the documents, Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires did enough to make 
Mr T aware of the terms of the mortgage contract he was entering into and so I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint.
His request for a term extension was turned down
When this complaint was referred to us Mr T raised some new issues which hadnt been 
dealt with in the final response letters that were considering here. As we can only deal with 
the complaints that were dealt with in those final response letters, our investigator explained 
to Mr T that hed need to raise those other issues with Birmingham Midshires first. I leave it 
to Mr T to discuss that further with our investigator if he wants, but I cant consider those 
points here in this final decision.
 
His monthly payment was miscalculated
Mr T has said that his monthly payment was miscalculated which impacted on his financial 
situation, contributed to his divorce and was likely a contributory factor in him having a heart 
by-pass operation in 2011. He also said that the miscalculation led to him borrowing money 
from family to maintain his payments.
I agree with Mr T that his monthly payment was miscalculated, thats not in dispute. But I 
cant see how that caused him any financial difficulties or contributed to his divorce and/or 
health issues as he was underpaying his mortgage, not overpaying.
What that means is that Birmingham Midshires was collecting lower payments from Mr T 
than it should have been, which meant he had more money in his pocket each month than 
he should have had, not less. So, if Birmingham Midshires had done nothing wrong Mr T 
would have had less money available to him each month.
Of course, that meant Mr Ts mortgage balance was then higher than it should have been, 
but Birmingham Midshires has already put that right by paying £6,102.82 to Mr T. That 
amount is the difference between what the balance of his mortgage was and what it would 
have been if Birmingham Midshires hadnt made this mistake (plus interest).
In effect, Mr T is around £6,000 better off as a result of the mistake as he benefited from not 
having to make the higher payments that he should have been making, whilst still benefiting 
from the lower balance that those higher payments would have given him.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that refund is fair and reasonable and I make no 
further order or award.
The fees he was charged were excessively high
Normally Id look at all the fees and see if they were fairly charged, but I dont need to do that 
here. Thats because Ive reviewed the full transaction history along with the fee refunds 
Birmingham Midshires has issued to Mr T over the years and I can see it has already 
refunded every fee that it charged for its own work for the life of the mortgage. Not only that, 
in error it refunded one batch of fees twice and allowed Mr T to keep the duplicated refund.
The only charges that remained on Mr Ts account that havent been refunded are two 
charges incurred by Birmingham Midshires when it took litigation action due to the conduct 
of the account. Those fees were £174.03 in July 2008 and £282 in August 2008. Those were 
fees Birmingham Midshires was charged by a third party  a solicitor  and it incurred them 
due to the conduct of Mr Ts account. Under the account terms and conditions Birmingham 
Midshires was allowed to then pass those fees onto Mr T by adding them to his mortgage 
debt.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied no fees remain unrefunded on the account other 
than the two solicitors fees and I dont order those be refunded as they were fairly charged 
under the terms of the mortgage contract.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and so I make no order or award. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman