DRN-2712512
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way AIG Life Limited handled his claim and the outcome they 
reached. 
What happened
Mr P had an income protection policy with AIG. He became absent from work due to anxiety 
and depression so in July 2020 he made a claim on his policy. During the claims call Mr P 
stated he had taken recreational drugs in the past 3 to 4 years. 
It took Mr Ps GP over two months to send AIG his medical records. During this time Mr P let 
AIG know he was struggling to meet his bills, but he says they didnt respond. So, he raised 
a complaint about the delays and the way his claim was being handled. 
On 30 September AIG received Mr Ps medical records and started to assess his claim. On 
1 October they called Mr P to discuss his smoking history and inform him they required 
further information from his GP. Mr P was extremely upset with this after hed already waited 
over two months and the next day he told AIG he was going to end his life if they didnt reach 
a decision on his claim within 24 hours. 
On 8 October AIG declined the claim. They informed Mr P they had voided his policy and 
refunded the premiums because they said hed misrepresented when he took out the policy. 
So Mr P also raised a complaint about the claim outcome. 
AIG said they arent responsible for the external delays with the GP and confirmed it couldnt 
have reached a decision on the claim without the records theyd waited for. So it didnt think 
it had acted unfairly. 
Mr P referred the matter to our service. He said AIG hadnt been clear in why they had 
declined the claim and voided his policy. He explained theyd cited lifestyle issues and 
smoking which he didnt understand. Mr P also said he felt the service he received from AIG 
was discriminatory.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He concluded AIGs decision to decline 
cover and void the policy was fair in the circumstances because Mr P had made a 
misrepresentation when he took out the policy and AIG had shown it wouldnt have offered 
the policy if he had provided accurate information during the sale.  
But he thought AIG had provided poor customer service because it should have been more 
transparent in explaining why the policy had been voided. He said AIG had taken too long to 
make their decision and this had caused Mr P distress. So he awarded £200 compensation. 
But he didnt think AIG had discriminated against Mr P. 
AIG accepted the recommended compensation. But Mr P didnt feel £200 was enough to 
acknowledge how hed been treated and discriminated against. In summary he said: 
He feels like AIG were determined to find some discrepancy to his claim from the 
start 
The way hes been treated by AIG points to deep discrimination 
He is in financial difficulty and the £200 suggested by our investigator is significantly 
less than what he wouldve received if his claim had been successful 
 
He asked for an ombudsman to review the case so the case has now been passed to me for 
a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AIG has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
AIGs decision on the claim 
When Mr P took out the policy in in November 2019, he was asked about any recreational
drug use in the last ten years and he said no. However, the next year during a claim he 
confirmed he had taken ecstasy in the past. He was asked when hed most recently used 
drugs and Mr P replied it was about three to four years ago. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires Mr P to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance contract.
If a consumer has failed to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided 
the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AIG said Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation during the 
sales call when he was asked about his past recreational drug use. Im satisfied the question 
AIG asked Mr P about his recreational drug use over the past ten years was clear. But I 
dont think Mr P took reasonable care to answer it when he said no because her later told 
AIG during his claim he had taken drugs about three to four years ago. 
AIG have provided underwriting criteria that shows they dont insure anyone who has taken 
ecstasy in the last five years. Mr P also told AIG he had taken ecstasy in the past so Im 
satisfied Mr Ps non-disclosure is a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA because AIG 
wouldnt have offered the policy had they known this.
AIG has said Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless and I think this is reasonable because I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was deliberate. So Ive looked at the remedy taken by 
AIG to unwind the policy as if it never existed and refund the premiums and Im satisfied this 
in accordance with CIDRA. 
Based on the above, I dont think the outcome to Mr Ps claim was unfair. 
The way AIG treated Mr P and handled his claimMr P said it felt like AIG were always going to turn down the claim and they went looking for 
a discrepancy from the start. But I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to investigate Mr 
Ps medical history. Its standard industry practice for insurers to ask for medical records in 
order to verify cover for income protection. This is to ensure that a policyholder has 
accurately declared their medical history. So, it wasnt unfair for AIG to obtain this 
information. But it did cause some delay to the claim because although AIG requested the 
records on 5 August, they didnt receive them from the GP until 20 September. However, the 
evidence shows this delay was caused by the GP surgery so I cant conclude AIG are at 
fault. 
Mr P has explained his claim experience was extremely distressing and hed made AIG 
aware he was struggling with his finances. So, Ive considered if AIG responded 
appropriately to this. 
On 7 September Mr P made AIG aware he had received a final written warning for over 
£2000 of rent arrears. Then on 23 September Mr P told AIG hed been served notice by his 
landlord. So, I think its clear AIG knew Mr P was in severe financial difficulty so his claim 
shouldve been looked at with a sense of urgency. But I dont think it was. 
It was reasonable for AIG to initially wait for Mr Ps medical records before assessing the 
claim. But once they were aware of Mr Ps financial situation AIG shouldve started to look 
into things for him to try and move things forward. Had they reviewed his file, AIG wouldve 
seen the call notes from July 2020 in relation to Mr Ps past recreational drug use, and been 
able to assess the claim soon than they did.  
Instead, on 30 September AIG received Mr Ps medical records and began to assess the 
claim. The case handler contacted Mr P on 1 October to ask information about his smoking 
background and then told him they needed to go back to his GP to obtain further info. As Mr 
P had already waited over two months for AIG to obtain information from his GP, I can see 
why this wouldve frustrated him and caused upset. Due to his financial difficulties, I dont 
think this was the right to do because AIG already had enough information to void the policy 
due to Mr Ps past recreational drug use. So, I dont think the further investigation into 
smoking was necessary or fair. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ps mental health deteriorated and in the morning on 2 October he sent a 
distressing email to AIG to say theyd had more than enough time to look into his medical 
past and he was going to end his life if he didnt receive an answer to his claim within 24 
hours. AIG replied on the same day at 3.45pm advising Mr P theyd contacted his GP due to 
concern for his welfare and provided contact details for the Samaritans which I think was 
reasonable. AIG told Mr P they were working on his case as quickly as possible but needed 
to await further information from the GP before making a decision. But as explained above, 
at this stage AIG already had enough information to give Mr P the answer they eventually 
reached. Had they provided this outcome sooner, based on the information they already 
knew, Mr P wouldnt have been caused further stress waiting another six days for his 
outcome. 
Mr P said he was also left confused as to the reason his policy was voided.  I agree AIG 
couldve been clearer in its communication. The claims decision letter dated 8 October 
focuses mainly on Mr Ps smoking history (which would have attracted a higher premium, but 
cover would still have been provided). And although drug use is referred to in the letter, its 
only as a final point so I can understand why Mr P may have thought the main reason for the 
decline was due to his previous smoking habitats.  I can understand why they may have 
done this to be sensitive, but it led to confusion for Mr P which could have been avoided. Finally, Mr P said AIG discriminated against him either because of his race or sexuality. Ive 
given this point concern careful consideration and whilst I can understand why Mr P may feel 
this way, having looked through all the available evidence I cant agree. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr Ps race or sexuality had an impact on AIGs handling of the claim in 
any way
In summary, I agree it was reasonable for AIG to decline Mr Ps claim and void the policy.  
But I think they couldve been more efficient and proactive in the way they handled Mr Ps 
claim. AIG have said they couldnt have reached a decision on the claim without the medical 
records theyd waited for. But ultimately the claim wasnt declined due to evidence from Mr 
Ps medical records so I think the decision could have been reached sooner and caused less 
impact to Mr P. 
AIG has agreed to pay Mr P £200 compensation to reflect the impact their delay had on him. 
Mr P is unhappy because this is less than hed have received from the claim if it had been 
successful. But this £200 is compensation for the way AIG handled the claim which is a 
separate issue. And Ive already explained above Im satisfied it was fair for AIG to decline 
the claim because of Mr Ps misrepresentation. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think AIG need to do anything more. 
Putting things right
 AIG must pay £200 compensation for the delays in reaching their outcome on Mr Ps claim 
and the distress and inconvenience this caused him. 
My final decision
 Im upholding this complaint against AIG Life Limited and direct them to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman