DRN-2907736
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax downgraded her account
without her authority.
What happened
Mrs R had a Reward account with Halifax which gave her certain benefits if she met the
criteria. She noticed that she hadnt been getting her monthly credit of £5 so she contacted
Halifax to see why she wasnt getting this benefit anymore.
Mrs R says that Halifax told her they had wrote to her in March 2020 to see if she still
wanted the account but as she didnt respond they downgraded her account. Mrs R says she
received no notification of the letter they referred to. Mrs R says she asked them to reinstate
the Reward account and backdate the rewards but Halifax didnt agree to do so.
Mrs R made a complaint to Halifax. She said Halifax had issues raising her complaint when
she initially tried to register her complaint and she says it took Halifax over a month to
register her complaint. Halifax did not uphold her complaint. They said that they had sent her
an electronic letter on 12 March 2020 informing her they were making changes to their
Reward accounts. Halifax said that by agreeing to paperless correspondence she agreed to
monitor her account through that channel and therefore, they dont send out paper copies of
the information sent to her digital inbox. They gave her instructions of how to change her
account back to the Reward account but they said they were unable to do this for her.
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. She said although she could upgrade the
account herself she felt out of principle that Halifax should do this and backdate it to when
Halifax changed the account, be reimbursed for all of the missed credits and be paid
compensation for stress and inconvenience.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. She said that as Halifax were making
changes to the terms and conditions of the account they had sent her a letter through her
digital inbox explaining that if she wanted to keep that account there would be a £3 fee
moving forward. The letter stated that Mrs R had until 15 May to inform them if she wanted
to keep the Rewards account. It also stated that if they didnt hear from her by 15 May 2020
then Mrs Rs account would automatically revert to a Halifax current account. Our
investigator said that she had seen no error from Halifax. She also said they notified Mrs R
of the changes to the account according to the terms and conditions and in line with her
preferred means of communication. Our investigator said Halifax allowed sufficient time for
Mrs R to check her inbox and respond with her preference. Our investigator explained that
we cant look at complaint handling as an activity such as when Halifax registered her
complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has made a number of points to both Halifax and this service and Ive considered,
listened to and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as
a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair
and reasonable here.
As our investigator explained to Mrs R, complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated
activity and as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Halifax have
investigated her complaint dont come under my powers to consider. So Ill just be looking at
the merits of her complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs R has said about her not giving Halifax authority to change her
account. But Halifax are entitled to change the account based on the terms and conditions of
the account and do not need her consent to take the actions that they did here.
So next Ive looked at whether Halifax have followed their terms and conditions in how they
changed Mrs Rs account and Ive looked at the digital letter theyve sent her. Mrs R is set up
to receive paperless statements/communication. This means that Halifax will communicate
these documents to her via her digital inbox. In addition when she logs into her internet
banking this shows an envelope at the top of her screen with messages Halifax have sent
her.
Halifax have confirmed to me that Mrs R will have been sent an email which informs her that
she has important information to view in her inbox. So I think that Mrs R would be aware that
Halifax have tried to communicate with her here. But even if Mrs R hadnt seen this email,
she would have been aware that Halifax has sent her a message when she logged onto her
internet banking  which Halifax have sent records to show she did log into her internet
banking between the date they sent her the communication and before they made the
change to her account.
Halifax have also sent me a copy of Mrs Rs digital inbox. Im satisfied that Mrs R hadnt read
the communication that Halifax had sent her but Im not persuaded that I can hold Halifax
responsible for this and Ill explain why.
Halifax have made the information available to Mrs R and alerted her that she had
information to review in her digital inbox. In the inbox there is a message Halifax sent her on
12 March 2020 titled Important: Reward Current Accounts are changing and another
message on 27 March which starts Important We are making changes to your account
terms and co. So as Halifax have provided information in the format Mrs R agreed to
when she agreed to receive paperless communication, it would be Mrs Rs responsibility to
look at the communication she has been sent.
These communications clearly set out why Halifax were changing the terms and conditions
of the account Mrs R had. As there was a fee of £3 being introduced then I would expect
Halifax to need to obtain the consent of Mrs R to be charged for the account to provide her
certain benefits. Based on the terms and conditions for the account Halifax say they would
provide two months notice for these types of changes. And thats what they did here. They
were clear that if they didnt hear from Mrs R by 15 May 2020 then they would change the
account to the Current Account.
Mrs R has indicated that we should tell Halifax to upgrade her account and backdate this so
she can benefit from the monthly reward. But Im not persuaded that this is fair. As the
account is different to the Reward account she had previously had then I would expect Mrs
R to look at the new terms and conditions of the account and then agree to these with
Halifax when or if she wishes to do so. Halifax have explained in their communication to Mrs
R that she would need to contact them to upgrade the account and I think this is reasonable
for the reasons Ive given.In summary, Im satisfied that Halifax made no error in changing Mrs Rs account when she
didnt respond to the communication they sent her. Based on the terms and conditions of the
account, Mrs Rs authority was not required to amend the account type and her consent was
only required to use the new version of the Rewards account  as there was a fee involved,
which she would need to contact Halifax to consent to the new Reward account. So for the
reasons Ive previously given I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Halifax had no further comments. Mrs R did not respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided by either party, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs R will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope she understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman