DRN-3344031
The complaint
Mr C complained about the way Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited (L&G) 
responded when he phoned to find out if it would cover costs he would incur seeking 
independent financial advice after L&G decided to sell its personal investing business to a 
third party. 
Mr C wants financial compensation, over and above the £50 L&G has offered in settlement 
of his complaint.
What happened
Mr C held an ISA with L&G. 
During summer 2021, L&G issued information to customers explaining the proposed transfer 
of its personal investing business to a third party. 
On 3 August 2021, Mr C phoned L&G to find out whether it would cover fees his 
independent financial adviser (IFA) would charge him for advice about the transfer of Mr Cs 
investment to the new provider. 
The L&G call handler he spoke to was new to the job and unable to handle Mr Cs call 
effectively. Mr C wanted to register a complaint but the call handler didnt understand the 
process for escalations or complaints. L&G have accepted that its call handler managed the 
situation poorly.
On 23 August 2021, Mr C called again to find out why he hadnt had a response to his 
complaint and he was unhappy with the amount of time he had to spend on hold and the 
information he was given. 
On a couple of occasions, Mr Cs calls got disconnected adding to the delay and frustration 
he was experiencing.
An L&G manager called Mr C back later the same day and apologised for the confusion. He 
explained that they had had a lot of new starters and said hed be speaking to them and 
providing feedback, but the call left Mr C very dissatisfied about L&Gs poor service.
L&G have said paying for Mr Cs financial advice isnt something they would do. But L&G 
acknowledged Mr C was on hold for long periods and given incorrect information. In 
recognition of the poor service and the cost of his calls, L&G said it would like to send Mr C 
£50 compensation.
 
Mr C didn't feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She didnt feel that L&G had done anything 
wrong in relation to the transfer of business and her view was that L&G had provided Mr C 
with information that clearly explained what options were open to him. Our investigator 
thought it was reasonable for Mr C to pay for advice from his own IFA if hed felt he wanted 
more information or guidance. 
Our investigator considered that the £50 offered by L&G was fair and reasonable overall to 
reflect the impact on Mr C of the way L&G had handled his phone calls and in line with the 
amount she would have suggested in these circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman to look at the case again. He commented that in his view, the literature L&G 
gave him about the proposed transfer of its personal investing business was incomplete and 
difficult for a normal person to understand. Mr C stated that no alternative was given to the 
transferring of his policy to the third party other than to cancel it. In his view, he needed 
advice to understand the complex information sent to him.
So, this case comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
During the call on 3 August 2021, it seems Mr C became increasingly anxious about L&G 
not confirming it would accept responsibility for paying his IFA fees. I can see that matters 
quickly became more heated when L&Gs call handlers failed to provide satisfactory answers 
to Mr Cs questions and when Mr C wanted to complain, his call wasnt escalated in line with 
L&Gs own call handling process. 
I sympathise with Mr C. I can completely understand that news of L&Gs transfer of business 
came as a surprise to him. He had held his ISA for many years and I havent seen anything 
to suggest to me that he would have chosen himself to move his account at that time to a 
new financial provider. But L&G had already prepared and circulated some detailed information about what the 
proposed transfer would mean for customers and set out options to help customers decide 
what to do with their own investments. 
And although I have noted Mr Cs comments about the complexity of the information sent by 
L&G, my view is that it did sufficiently clearly explain what the proposed transfer would 
mean. This included an option to transfer to a different ISA manager, rather than the third 
party that L&G had arranged the transfer to. 
So I think L&G had already done all I would reasonably expect in this situation, and fairly 
offered options to Mr C. If Mr C felt he needed independent financial advice on top of this, 
then I think the cost of that advice was an expense he should reasonably have expected to 
have to pay himself. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to decline to pay Mr Cs IFA fee. So I dont uphold 
this part of Mr Cs complaint.
L&G has acknowledged that Mr C was on hold for long periods and given incorrect 
information during calls on 3 August and 23 August 2021. 
So I have concentrated on what I consider is fair redress for Mr C in this situation.
I think it's fair to say that some of the things L&G mentioned that Mr C said over the phone 
probably made it more difficult for an inexperienced call handler to deal effectively with 
Mr Cs requests and manage his expectations better. That doesnt excuse the admitted poor 
service on the part of L&G. But Im mindful also that Mr C was passed on to a manager 
during his second call on 23 August 2021  and he was called back by a manager the same 
day who apologised for the confusion caused by misinformation provided to Mr C. 
By then, it seems Mr C had received a letter from L&G acknowledging his complaint and he 
was aware that it was being looked into. 
So it looks like L&G tried to sort things out on the day for Mr C. 
And it sent its final response letter in answer to his complaint on 2 September 2021.
I cant fairly say that L&G failed to handle his concerns within a reasonable timescale overall, 
despite the initial confusion. 
Mr C hasnt shown me that he suffered any financial loss. Its reasonable to think that he 
may have had some wasted costs on calls that took longer than they should have done due 
to having to wait on hold for long periods and he had to call back on a couple of occasions 
when his calls were disconnected. It is also clear that errors on the part of L&G call handlers 
added to Mr Cs frustrations about a situation he didnt want to be in.  
Keeping all this in mind, I agree that £50 is fair and reasonable overall to provide redress to 
Mr C in these circumstances. This amount is in line with what I would have suggested L&G 
should pay Mr C to reflect the impact of its poor service on him, had it not already made this 
offer. 
As Im satisfied L&G dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action.My final decision
My final decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Legal & General (Unit Trust 
Managers) Limited should pay Mr C £50 as it has offered and I dont require it to take any 
further steps to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman