DRN-3140149
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank Uk Plc unfairly applied interest, fees and charges 
to his overdraft which caused financial difficulty.
 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B complained about the charges and interest applied to his account over 
the previous six years. He said the charges and interest contributed to his financial 
difficulties and that Barclays had been unwilling to help him when he asked for assistance. 
Barclays looked at Mr Bs complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. So Mr B 
referred his complaint to us. 
Barclays contacted us to say that it had previously issued a final response letter to Mr B 
about charges applied to his account prior to 19 October 2018, and that as Mr B hadnt 
referred that complaint to us within 6 months of receiving the final response letter, this part of 
his complaint had been referred too late. Barclays did though go on to say that as a gesture 
of goodwill it was willing to refund all the overdraft charges and interest applied to Mr Bs 
account from 19 October 2018 onwards. Mr B was unhappy with this offer, as Barclays had 
said it would use the refund to reduce the outstanding balance of his account and Mr B felt 
the refund should be paid directly to him.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint, but he agreed with Barclays that it was fair 
to use the refund of charges to reduce Mr Bs outstanding balance. As Mr B remained 
unhappy, he referred his complaint for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already offered to do 
to put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
Firstly, I agree that any complaint about charges applied prior to 19 October 2018 has been 
referred to us too late. Where a business doesnt agree, Im not allowed to consider a 
complaint which is referred to me more than six months after the date the final response 
letter is sent. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1) can be found in the regulators handbook of 
rules and guidance, or a paper copy can be provided if requested. 
Barclays issued a final response regarding overdraft fees and charges applied to Mr Bs 
account on 18 October 2018. So this means Mr B had until 18 May 2019 to refer his 
complaint to us. And as Mr B didnt refer this complaint to us until 5 February 2020, Im afraid 
that it was referred to us out of time. 
I am allowed to investigate complaints made outside of the time limits where I am satisfied 
that the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances. 
But Mr B hasnt told us about any exceptional circumstances that meant he couldnt have 
referred that complaint to us in time, so Im satisfied that I cant consider the charges that 
were applied to his account before 18 October 2018.
I can though look at any charges applied after that date, and I will address those now.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. So where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a 
credit facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and 
charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and 
charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was 
unsustainable. And our usual approach is that if there is an outstanding balance on the 
account a complaint is about then it is fair and reasonable for the bank to use any refund to 
reduce that outstanding balance.
Mr B feels that the refund should be paid directly to him as he says that Barclays ignored his 
requests for help. To reiterate, Im only looking at events after October 2018, but I can see 
that Mr B contacted Barclays in February and October 2019 asking for assistance with the 
charges. Barclays initially advised Mr B that he could speak to its financial assistance team if 
he wanted to try and stop the charges, and then that it could place a hold on charges while 
he looked at agreeing an affordable repayment plan, but Mr B declined these offers as he 
was only looking for an immediate refund of charges as thats what he felt would help him 
most. 
I dont think the assistance that Barclays offered here was unreasonable, although I 
appreciate its not the help that Mr B was looking for at the time. But in any case, even if I 
were to find that Barclays should have done more to help Mr B, I wouldnt ask it to do 
anything more than it has already offered to do put things right.
So overall and having considered everything, I think that Barclayss proposal to reduce 
Mr Bs debt is fair and reasonable and I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Barclays Bank Uk Plc needs to do anything more 
than it has already offered to do to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman