DRN-2717948
The complaint
The estate of Mr E is unhappy with the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt 
with the settlement of outstanding lending when Mr E passed away. The estate is 
represented by Mr Es son.
What happened
Mr E passed away in June 2016. His son contacted NatWest to let them know. He gave the 
bank a copy of his fathers death certificate.
Mr E had an outstanding mortgage on his home, along with a personal loan and a credit card 
 all with the bank.
Mr Es son says he contacted the bank several times after his fathers death and was told 
interest on all the outstanding lending would be frozen until the estate could be finalised.  
So in September 2019, when Mr Es son realised the outstanding mortgage had accrued 
interest he got in touch with the bank and raised a complaint. He says if hed been told the 
mortgage interest would continue to be applied, hed have settled the amount from his 
personal account to avoid his fathers estate being reduced. He wants NatWest to waive the 
interest that accrued from the time of his fathers death to the date the mortgage account 
was settled in late 2019.
The bank said it had no record of calls from Mr Es son in the months following his fathers 
death. And it pointed to three letters it says it sent to Mr Es son which confirmed that interest 
would continue to accrue on the mortgage.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Based on the information available to her she 
was satisfied the three letters sent to Mr Es son clearly showed interest on the mortgage 
would continue to accrue. She was also satisfied NatWest has searched its call records and 
couldnt find any calls from Mr Es son during the period in question. Because of that she 
didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me for further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this case, giving both parties an opportunity to respond.  In 
my provisional decision I said  
Mr Es son says he called the bank several times and was told interest would be frozen on 
all his fathers outstanding lending. He says he was also told the same thing by members of 
staff in branch, so he had no reason to doubt the accuracy of the information hed been 
given.
NatWest originally told this Service, it had no record of calls from Mr Es son during the time 
in question. It has now confirmed that calls to the team Mr Es son was likely in contact with, 
its Bereavement Team, werent recorded at that time so it has no way of establishing exactly 
what Mr Es son was told.
I think that position is supported in the banks written response to Mr Es son in September 
2019 after he complained about being given misleading information.
In its final response letter to Mr Es son in December 2019, it upheld this aspect of Mr Es 
sons complaint and accepted there may have been some confusion with interest being 
frozen on Mr Es other lending but not on the mortgage account.  But the letter goes on to 
say the terms of the mortgage mean the interest cannot be waived.
I have seen copies of the letters NatWest sent to Mr Es son in September 2018, October 
2018, and a formal demand notice sent in February 2019. The letters sent in September and 
October 2018 specifically refer to interest accruing on the mortgage. The formal demand 
notice includes the total outstanding balance on the mortgage account  which has 
increased since the letters from late 2018  and refers to interest which is due, or may 
become due.
Mr Es son says he didnt receive these letters at the time they were sent because hed 
moved to a new house. He says he returned to his previous address to collect some post in 
February 2019  and thats when he got in touch with NatWest. 
Ive seen evidence which shows Mr Es son signed a tenancy agreement in August 2018. He 
says he gave NatWest his new address details at the time.
NatWest says it didnt know Mr Es son had moved home and having reviewed its contact 
records, no change of address is noted in or around August 2018.
But Ive also considered the call notes made following Mr Es sons call to NatWest in 
February 2019. The notes do not include any reference to Mr Es son questioning why 
NatWest had written to a previous address  or to him giving NatWest his new address 
details again. I think if Mr Es son had told NatWest about his new address at that time, it 
would have been noted on its records, given that it has issued a formal demand notice 
regarding settlement of the mortgage.
And the call notes also dont suggest Mr Es son raised concerns about the increased 
balance on his fathers mortgage account or the reference to interest that may be added or 
become due.
Mr Es son has said if hed have known interest would continue to accrue on the mortgage, 
hed have settled the outstanding debt from his personal accounts. Hes provided evidence 
to this Service that shows he had sufficient funds from late September 2018 to do so. Ive 
thought carefully about what that might mean for this complaint.
The role of this service is not to punish a business if it makes a mistake but to consider the 
impact of that mistake and where possible, put the consumer back in the position they would 
have been in had the mistake not occurred. NatWest may have made a mistake in telling Mr 
Es son it would freeze the interest on the mortgage account, but that doesnt mean the 
interest is not due. And whilst Im satisfied Mr Es son had sufficient funds available to settle his fathers 
mortgage from late September 2018, he chose not to do so even after receiving the formal 
demand notice. Im satisfied the formal demand notice includes information which should 
have been sufficient to have prompted Mr Es son to raise questions about the balance on 
his fathers mortgage account and the interest at that time.
Because of that I cant reasonably conclude Mr Es son would have settled the mortgage 
account in February 2019 or indeed earlier, from September 2018 onwards. Holding 
sufficient funds does not necessarily mean Mr Es son would have used those funds to settle 
the outstanding mortgage.
I understand Mr Es son will be disappointed but overall, I am not persuaded, based on 
everything Ive seen, that NatWest should waive the interest on Mr Es mortgage account.
Following my provisional decision, Mr Es son got in touch to reiterate his position. 
Unfortunately, he hasnt been able to provide any further information to show he raised 
concerns about interest charges prior to September 2019. There is no reference to mortgage 
interest charges in any of his communications with NatWest, even after it had issued a 
formal demand notice.
I think its more likely there was some confusion about interest charges, and it was only 
when Mr Es son called NatWest to discuss settlement of the account in September 2019, 
the position became clear to him. Because of that I cant reasonably conclude Mr E would 
have settled his fathers outstanding mortgage from his personal funds before then.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman