DRN-1628733
The complaint
Mr S complains that he took out an interest free credit card Barclays Bank UK Plc (T/A 
Barclaycard) and arranged with it to pay a monthly payment, which ensured his balance 
would be cleared once his interest free period expired. He also complains he wasnt sent any 
statements - so he didnt know he wasnt paying enough. 
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card with Barclaycard in November 2014. He said this credit card 
offered interest free balance transfers for 60 months. But Barclaycard said the interest free 
period was only for 34 months. 
Mr S took advantage of the interest free promotion and transferred around £3900. He set up 
a direct debit to make minimum monthly payments to Barclaycard and said he had an 
agreement to clear his debt within the promotional interest free period.
Mr S said he didnt receive any statements from Barclaycard  so he didnt know how much 
he owed. And, in September 2017, when his promotional interest rate expired he was 
shocked and upset to learn that he still had an outstanding balance of almost £2000, which 
Barclaycard began to apply interest to. 
When Mr S complained to Barclaycard about what had happened it told him his interest free 
promotion had been for 34 months and said it had provided him with statements each month 
in accordance with his statement preferences. It said those statements referred to the 
interest free period and stated how much of his balance was outstanding. Barclaycard also 
stated it had no record of any agreement with Mr S that he repay his balance in full during 
the interest free period. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Barclaycards response to his complaint Mr S referred it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Barclaycard had dealt with his complaint fairly. They 
werent persuaded that it had made an error. But Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr S and Barclaycard that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.I understand Mr S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would like. Ill explain why. 
Dealing first with the length of the interest free promotion, Im satisfied that Mr S interest free 
promotion was for 34 months and not 60 months as he initially told our service. I say this 
because the statements Ive seen make this clear.
Mr S says he instructed Barclaycard to set up his account in a way that ensured his balance 
would be settled by the time his interest free promotional offer expired. But there are no 
notes confirming any arrangement on Barclaycards records and, given the passage of time, 
it isnt able to provide a copy of the call recording, which isnt unusual.
I think if Mr S had made the arrangement he says he made with Barclaycard this would have 
been documented. Theres no reason for Barclaycard not to record that. And I understand 
that Mr S has been unable to provide any evidence confirming his arrangement. So, overall, 
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr S made the arrangement he says 
he made. 
Mr S knew how much he wanted to transfer onto his interest free credit card. So, I think he 
ought to have known that the monthly payment he was paying wasnt sufficient to clear the 
balance at the rate he wanted. He, most likely, would have seen the monthly payments 
leaving his bank account via direct debit. And it was his responsibility to ensure they were for 
amount he wanted.
Mr S said he didnt receive any paper credit card statements from Barclaycard  so he 
couldnt have known he wasnt paying enough. But, this is because his statement 
preferences were set to paperless. So, Barclaycard notified him each month by email that 
his statements were available to view.
Ive seen the statements Barclaycard sent him each month. I havent seen enough evidence 
to make me think that the emails it sent Mr S were returned undelivered. And I havent seen 
any records that show that Mr S had contacted Barclaycard to query where his statements 
were, which I would have expected him to do if he wasnt receiving them. So, Im satisfied 
its most likely emails, which notified Mr S statements were available for him to view, were 
delivered to him.
It was Mr S responsibility to review his statements online. But he told our investigator and 
Barclaycard he didnt log in or access his account online. I think if hed seen his statements it 
would have been obvious to him that he wasnt paying enough to clear his balance before 
his interest free offer expired. Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard took appropriate action to 
notify him that his statements were ready to view. It follows that I cant fairly hold it 
responsible if he didnt log into his account and view them.
Its clear that Mr S is unhappy with the interest hes incurred after his 0% promotional rate 
ended. With that in mind, Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions that apply to his 
credit card account. These terms clearly outline the circumstances in which interest may be 
applied. 
Based on the statements Ive seen Barclaycard didnt apply any interest to Mr S account 
balance until after his interest free period had expired. Interest charges were set out clearly 
on Mr S statements. And Im satisfied Barclaycard acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account. I appreciate that Mr S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But, for the reasons set out above, I think 
Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably. I dont think it made an error. So, Im not going to 
ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman