DRN-4363504
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund the money he lost 
in an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr A decided to invest in Bitcoin through a broker he found on social media. He sent a faster 
payment of £800 to a personal account on 20 March 2018. He was told this investment had 
made a profit of £50,000 the following day - and that to release these funds he needed to 
send a faster payment of £2,973.80 to a different personal account. He did this on 21 March 
2018. When he did not receive the profits and could no longer contact the broker he realised 
he had been scammed and reported it to Halifax.
Halifax rejected Mr As claim saying the transactions were not unusual for the account and 
there were several red flags that ought to have stopped Mr A.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said the transactions were not out of 
character and nor did they drain the account, so Halifax was not at fault when it did not 
intervene. She said Halifax did what we would expect to try to recover the money once Mr A 
reported the scam.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr A asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Halifax had 
checked other smaller payments with him and the other high value payments he had made 
were to family member so they did not need to be checked  but does this mean its okay 
Halifax doesnt check other payments of a similar value. He feels that is unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this case as the payments 
were made before it came into force and so cant be considered under it.
. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case. It is not in dispute in this case that Mr A made and authorised the payments. At the 
time he made them he believed he was investing in Bitcoin. Mr A says he was scammed and 
he wasnt making the payment for the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the 
transaction was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr A when he made the payment requests, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Halifax should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. Having considered Mr As 
account activity before the scam I agree with the investigator that the scam payments 
werent unusual or uncharacteristic and so I wouldnt expect Halifax to flag them or ask Mr A 
any questions about them. 
The payments were made to personal UK bank accounts. There was nothing about them 
that was unusual. I dont think either payment here was of such a value that they ought to 
have been flagged as suspicious in the context of Mr As account history. I find, in the 
circumstances, Halifax had no reason to be concerned about them and so to intervene in 
any way. Mr A argues that lower value payments he had previously made triggered an 
intervention from Halifax. But value is only one characteristic of a transaction and it may 
reasonably be some lower value payments require verification, but certain higher value 
payments dont. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the 
ones Mr A made were blocked while further enquiries were made, many genuine payments 
would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay.  Mr A believes that 
Halifax failed to prevent a foreseeable loss, but I disagree. I dont consider that Halifax 
reasonably had any reason to suspect Mr A may be at risk of financial harm.  
I have then considered if Halifax did enough to try to recover Mr As funds one it was put on 
notice. Mr A reported the scam to Halifax at 5.30pm on 21 March 2018. It raised a fraud 
claim at 6.07pm and by 10.20am the following morning both recipient banks had confirmed 
no money remained in either account. So I dont believe Halifax could have done anything 
more.
I am sorry Mr A has had to contact us in these circumstances but for the reasons set out 
above I cannot fairly hold Halifax  who had no involvement in the scam - liable for Mr As 
losses. It follows I am not instructing it to refund either payment. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman