DRN-2441510
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurances (Lloyds) handling of a claim he made 
under his buildings insurance policy. Any references to Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr C noticed water entering a room in his house from the roof. He called 
Lloyds to lodge a claim. Lloyds sent out a contractor to inspect the damage to Mr Cs home. 
The contractor said there was a visibly slipped tile by the Velux window in the roof, but there 
was no evidence indicating the tile had slipped as a result of storm conditions. On this basis, 
Lloyds declined Mr Cs claim. Mr C complained about this decision, and Lloyds issued a final 
response letter. It said the weather reports indicated there was no evidence of winds that 
would be considered to be storm conditions, and no evidence of storm damage on the roof. 
As a result, the claim was declined. 
Unhappy with the handling of the matter, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Mr C 
said he didnt understand why his claim has been considered under the storm section of his 
policy when he didnt make a claim on this basis. Mr C was also frustrated he hadnt seen 
the report from the contractor and felt the service hed been provided with had been 
inadequate.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said there 
was insufficient evidence storm conditions were the cause of the damage. Lloyds had told us 
the policy excluded claims where water damage was caused by inadequate maintenance, 
including missing roof tiles, which the investigator agreed was the mostly likely cause. As Mr 
C didnt agree, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration at Lloyds suggestion the claim should be considered 
under the storm section. Mr C says he identified some damage in the house but wasnt sure 
how or when this occurred. Our investigator considered this point, and relayed Lloyds 
explanation that when Mr C reported water had entered his home, Lloyds considered the 
most relevant option was to record the claim as possible storm damage. They went on to say 
that when logging the claim as storm damage, their contractor would have greater overview 
as to the likely cause of any damage. 
Its worth noting here that Mr Cs policy doesnt cover any event which could cause damage 
to his home. Rather it covers specific insured events. So although Mr C reported damage to 
his home, for it to be potentially covered, it needs to be as a result of an insured event  
which isnt defeated by an exclusion. Given the damage was water ingress, there are limited 
occasions when this might be covered  storm being one of them.
Its not for this service to instruct an insurer how to record a claim. That being said, as Lloyds 
indicated the claim was initially considered under the storm clause, Ive considered whether I 
think this was fair and reasonable. 
When this service considers claims for storm damage, we usually consider three key issues. 
If we answer yes to all three, wed likely recommend the claim be settled in line with the 
policy terms by the insurer. In taking this approach, the first question wed consider is if 
storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
Ive considered the weather reports for the weeks running up to Mr C noticing the damage. 
Although there were some high winds, I dont consider these were sufficient to be classed as 
a storm as defined by the policy. However, the weather reports also identified 39.4mm of 
rain around the time the damage was noticed. On balance, Im satisfied storm conditions 
were present on or around when damage was identified by Mr C and reported to Lloyds.
In light of this, Ive gone on to consider if the damage Mr C claimed for is consistent with 
damage that a storm typically causes. However, in doing so, Im not persuaded that the 
answer to this question is yes. I say this having considered the contractors report and 
accompanying photographs of the roof. These show a single tile missing, which is how the 
water entered Mr Cs property. I havent been provided with any evidence to indicate heavy 
rain alone would have caused the single tile to slip. 
The last issue Ive considered was if the storm was the main or dominant cause of the 
damage claimed for. As our investigator noted in his opinion, the report from the contractor 
doesnt provide any detail as to why they concluded the roof tile slipped as a result of poor 
workmanship or poor design. I agree with our investigator that the report is not detailed 
enough to be persuasive in supporting the conclusion Lloyds reached. 
With that in mind, Ive reflected on the storm conditions around the time the damage was 
noticed. Ive noted the heavy rains identified in the weather reports, but I am not persuaded 
the evidence provided shows storm conditions experienced around Mr Cs property would 
have caused the single roof tile to slip. It follows, Im satisfied the overall decision to decline 
the claim under the storm section was correct. 
On the basis I consider Lloyds was entitled to decline the claim under the storm clause, Ive 
gone on to consider whether water ingress was covered elsewhere by the policy. Mr C says 
he wants to know why hes not covered for water entering his property from the outside and 
why its exempt from his claim. 
Lloyds explained its relying on this exclusion to decline Mr Cs claim:
You are not insured against the costs of maintenance, or the costs of any damage 
caused by inadequate maintenance. Examples include, but are not limited to:
 water damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/or grout;
 water entering the property caused by inadequate maintenance to your roof such as
missing or loose tiles, a leaking chimney or a cracked or worn flat roof
On this basis, Lloyds maintains the internal damage in Mr Cs home is not covered because 
water ingress is not covered by policy. It states there is no cover in place for water entering 
the property as a result of a missing tile. And this is the cause of water entering the property 
as identified in the expert report.  Ive outlined my reasons why I consider Lloyds was entitled to decline the claim under the 
storm section of Mr Cs policy. And, having considered the policy wording and report setting 
out the nature of the damage, Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to decline Mr Cs claim on by 
relying on the above clause which sets out why the damage is not covered by this policy. 
While I expect my decision will not be the one Mr C is hoping for, I consider Lloyds is entitled 
to decline the Mr Cs claim for the reasons Ive given. It follows I am not going to direct 
Lloyds to settle Mr Cs claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman