DRN-2159714
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Clear Score Technology Limited misled him into believing an application 
for a credit card which it said was pre-approved would be successful when in fact it was 
refused. 
What happened
Mr Y told us that he responded to a Clear Score advertisement. And was later told that hed 
been pre-approved for a credit card with a lender identified to him by Clear Score and which 
Ill refer to as A. But he says that when he went ahead and made the application it was 
refused by A. He explains that A conducted a further credit search and that this has 
adversely affected his credit file. He thinks Clear Score told him that he was pre-approved 
just to obtain commission.
Clear Score told us that it used a soft search to check a consumers credit file. And this had 
no effect on the score and would be removed after 12 months. And that it wouldnt be seen 
by other businesses. It explained that by using a soft search it also limited the level of 
information it would be able to see. Clear Score said that the information on its website 
made clear that any application was subject to further checks. And that a prospective lender 
would probably conduct a hard search which would go deeper into the credit history and 
may discover additional information which wasnt revealed by the soft search. It explained 
that it receives its commission only when an application it refers is successful.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Clear 
Scores website makes clear that pre-approved offers are subject to the lenders final 
decision. And applications arent guaranteed to be successful. He explained that Clear Score 
only receives commission if an application is successful.
Mr Y didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Y would be concerned and disappointed that hed been refused credit 
when he reasonably believed an application would be successful.
In summary, Mr Ys complaint is that Clear Score misled him into believing his application for 
credit, having been pre-approved, would be successful. He thinks it pre-approves all 
applications like this in order to maximise its commission. And hes concerned that being 
turned down will damage his credit score.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are a vast number of businesses which offer credit and each business has its own 
lending criteria dependent upon its business model. Its to be expected that whilst one 
business may be willing to grant credit, another business using exactly the same information, 
will not.  This means its often a prudent step for a prospective borrower to check to see 
which lenders, based on the individual circumstances of the borrower, are more likely to 
approve an application for credit.
Ive examined the Clear Score website and the terms and conditions of its service. I can see 
that this also sets out the process it adopts. It explains the meaning of a soft search and 
offers an opt out option. It also explains that the prospective lender will probably conduct a 
hard search and that this can affect a credit score. Also, that each prospective lender has 
its own criteria.
The rules by which lenders are bound usually require that financial checks are carried out to 
ensure that a borrower is able to sustainably repay any loan that is granted. And its normal 
practice for lenders to use a credit reference agency and conduct a hard search of a 
prospective borrowers credit file. Before making such a search the lender would be required 
to obtain the borrowers permission to access their personal information.
Im satisfied that Mr Y knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that there was no 
guarantee his application would be successful. And that he was prepared to accept the risk 
which included the effect that a hard search might have on his credit score. Clear Score 
didnt take the decision to decline his application. And if Mr Y feels the refusal was unfair or 
that A accessed his personal financial information without his consent, such a complaint 
should be addressed to that business.
Mr Y has not provided any plausible information in support of his view that Clear Score 
refers all applications as pre-approved. And I accept what Clear Score has stated in that it 
only receives commission based upon successful applications. A business which sought to 
pre-approve every application regardless of merit is unlikely to retain the confidence of 
lenders.
In summary, whilst I empathise with Mr Y that his application was unsuccessful, I find that 
Clear Score hasnt done anything wrong in these circumstances. Its conducted a soft 
search which didnt have any effect on Mr Ys credit score. And based on the information it 
obtained it advised Mr Y that his application would be given pre-approved status. But the 
terms and conditions made clear that this didnt mean hed be granted credit. And it was 
made clear that the final decision would rest with the lender and not Clear Score. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman