DRN-3154944
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed one of his business accounts without allowing 
him time to make arrangements elsewhere.
What happened
Mr G had a number of business accounts with Lloyds as a sole trader. He says that one of 
these accounts was used to receive ongoing commission which he split with a third party as 
part of a historic arrangement. He is unhappy Lloyds closed this account because this 
means he can no longer receive this income. He wants to be compensated for this
Lloyds said that Mr G had overdraft borrowing and had issued him with letters of concern. In 
July 2020 it made a demand for repayments. And it then transferred the borrowing to its 
recovery department. It closed the account that had been receiving the commission and said 
that this wasnt a mistake. But it recognised the inconvenience for Mr G and time taken to 
address his complaint and paid him £200.
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds pay a further £250 to Mr G making a total of £450 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. The closure of the account had caused 
significant difficulties for Mr G as the party paying commission said it was no longer going to 
do so as Mr G wasnt trading and didnt have the required industry position any longer. As  
Mr G had told Lloyds he had stopped trading it would always have closed the account. And 
the arrangements between other third parties and Mr G wasnt something Lloyds was 
responsible for especially if he wasnt now receiving payments. But he could have had more 
time to make arrangements.  
Lloyds agreed to pay the additional compensation.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that if hed had 60 days notice of the closure of his account then 
he would have had time to communicate with the payers and make arrangements to divert 
the money. Lloyds actions meant that payments stopped, and he hadnt had a chance to 
mitigate this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All the accounts in question here were ones for Mr G as a sole trader. So, Lloyds didnt 
distinguish between then when considering its relationship with him. And it wanted 
repayment of his overdraft. The information it was given was that Mr G was no longer 
trading. It sent him a formal demand and I can see that as part of that document it said that if 
this wasnt met it may result in his accounts being transferred to recovery.
I appreciate that the impact on the account which Mr G was still using to receive ongoing 
commission payments may not have been clear to him. I cant see any evidence Lloyds 
agreed that this would continue and Mr G in this complaint form says he knew the intention 
was for the borrowing to be sent to recoveries so he could make arrangements for 
repayment.
Im afraid I agree that Lloyds didnt make a mistake in restricting this account. And either    
Mr G was entitled to receive this money on an ongoing basis, or he wasnt. If he no longer 
had the required industry position then that was a matter for him to address. It seems from 
what he says that the arrangement had still continued for a period and it was the closure of 
the account that brought the position to the attention of the payers. I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for the consequences of this and for those third parties now not it seems being 
prepared to make payments to any other account nominated by Mr G. But I can see Lloyds 
now accepts that it could have made clearer about what would happen to the account. And 
that this was an unfortunate result for Mr G that caused him distress.
I take into account that Lloyds following our investigators view has agreed to pay a further 
£250. I dont intend to vary that in the circumstances. And I wont be asking Lloyds to 
compensate Mr G for any loss in income for the reasons Ive given.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr G a 
further £250 as it has agreed to do, and which will make total compensation of £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman