DRN-1391435
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) closed her credit 
card account without providing a bona fide reason, and also breached the Data Protection 
Act.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms T and AMEX, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all their 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how businesses 
review their policies.
So the issue here turns on the terms of the credit card agreement. Ive looked at these and 
can see that under the section headed Ending Your Agreement it provides that the 
agreement is open ended with no fixed duration. AMEX are entitled to end the agreement for 
a variety of reasons by giving at least 2 months notice, or immediately if we have 
reasonable grounds to believe youre unable or unwilling to pay your debts when due.
As Amex terminated the agreement without giving 2 months notice all they had to show was 
that they had reasonable grounds. AMEX said they undertook an internal risk assessment 
on Ms Ts account taking into account a variety of factors but said specifically that they had 
considered,
the previous cancellation of Ms Ts account ending *1002 in 2017
information available which they are not obliged to share with Ms T, and 
insufficient financial information provided 
Amex also said that they were not at liberty to discuss the finer details of their risk 
assessment process. The reason for that is that it will be commercially sensitive. 
I do understand Ms T feels very aggrieved, and she has made that very clear, however all 
AMEX have to do is follow the process it has set out in the agreement, and if it does it will 
have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered AMEXs actions, I think it followed the process set out in the agreement, 
and I am satisfied that the results of its risk assessment review gave it reasonable grounds 
to terminate the account immediately.
I have also considered the issue of the potential Data Protection Act (DPA) breach and I 
agree with our investigators comments that this is a matter which ought to be taken up with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as it is outside our remit.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Ts frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman