DRN-2893886
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that TSB Bank plc restricted its bank 
account without notice or explanation.
Mr M is the companys director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
M held a current account and savings account with TSB.
On 22 May 2020, TSB undertook a review of Ms current account and restricted the 
companys access to it while doing so. This meant that M couldnt use funds held in the 
account, which totalled around £6,500 at the time.
TSB completed its review on 27 May and removed the restriction from Ms account. It 
subsequently wrote to M with notice of its decision to withdraw its services and the 
companys accounts were closed in October.
Mr M says that TSB failed to notify him about the review or restriction and that being 
deprived access to the account meant he couldnt buy stock for the business, which in turn 
caused M to lose out on approximately £800 profit. He doesnt think there were any grounds 
for the banks review, given how the account had been used and as it was always in credit. 
And he says that the bank didnt give him any information about what was happening despite 
a number of calls.
TSB says it conducted its review and applied the account restriction in line with the banks 
terms and conditions, which didnt require prior notice or explanation. But its paid M 
compensation of £15, after recognising that it didnt call Mr M back as promised.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
TSBs review, restriction and closure of Ms accounts had all been carried out in line 
with the terms and conditions; 
The bank had completed its review within a reasonable timeframe and lifted the 
restriction promptly; and
TSB wasnt obliged to explain the reasons for its actions.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. While acknowledging that the bank had the right 
to close Ms account and had done so after giving the requisite notice, he maintained that 
there was no legitimate basis for the restriction and wanted to know the banks reason.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that being deprived access to its account and the funds therein will have 
affected Ms ability to operate. But to require TSB to compensate M for any loss it may have 
suffered as a result, Id need to find that the bank did something wrong in applying the 
restriction  and I dont think it did. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
TSB has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking services 
to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, and may 
need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
This is allowed for within the terms and conditions that applied to Ms account. They explain 
that there may be occasions when TSB is unable to carry out a particular instruction from the 
company. 
TSB has explained that it suspended transactions on Ms account while it conducted a 
review in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that this was the case. The bank completed its review and removed the restriction 
within five days, which I think was a reasonable timeframe.
I also appreciate that the matter will have been concerning for Mr M and that he was 
frustrated about the lack of information that TSB gave him about what was happening. But 
the bank wasnt required to give notice of the restriction, or explain its reasons. It also 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require the bank to do so now. And so while I dont doubt 
that this matter was stressful for Mr M and that he spent a lot of time on calls to TSB trying to 
find out what was going on, this wasnt down to an error on the banks part  so its not 
something for which I can fairly require the bank to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman