DRN-3011949
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
Mrs C took possession of the car in March 2019. The car was approximately four years old 
and the sales invoice records the car had travelled 70,000 miles. The price of the car was 
£12,079. The entire sum of £12,079 was financed by way of a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn, signed by Mrs C on 23 March 2019. The car came with a MOT certificate 
dated 13 February 2019 with a recorded mileage of 70,591. 
Under the agreement, everything else being equal, Mrs C undertook to pay 59 monthly 
payments of £376.29  total repayable being £22,201.11.
In March 2019 Mrs C noticed rust around the windscreen and complained to Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint on the grounds the issue was cosmetic and 
commensurate with the cars age and mileage. However, the issue was addressed by the 
supplying dealership and addressed to Mrs Cs satisfaction.
In October 2019, whilst she was on holiday, Mrs C says the engine light illuminated and the 
car went into limp mode. The car was then inspected and repaired at a cost to her of 
£251.62.
The invoice in respect of this work, dated 14 October 2019, states:
Work instructions
engine warning light was on  low oil pressure
[Manufacturer] checked car for customer but requires oil strainer cleaned & oil/filter 
change
Drain and remove sump, clean sump and clean out gauze as best as possible in situ
Refit sump, run with fresh oil and flush
C/out oil & filter change
Report
If fault not cured, then stripping of engine to replace oil pump pick-up pipe on oil 
pump/crank balancer assembly  approx. 6.5 hours labour and 30GBP for part
The recorded mileage on 14 October 2019 was 78,387.
After the above, the repairing garage confirmed to Mrs C (in writing):
This confirms that when we checked and carried out work on your vehiclewe 
advised you at that time that, in our opinion, the vehicle may have been using the 
wrong grade of oil.
There is no way of knowing whether it was done at the previous oil change or if the 
previous owner had topped up with the wrong oil.
In December 2019 the engine light illuminated, and the car went into limp mode for a second 
time. The car was then recovered, inspected and repaired at a cost to Mrs C of £218.88 by a 
second garage.
The invoice dated 13 December 2019 states:
carried out diagnostic check, oil pressure to low. Check & reset quality in service, 
add and run engine with engine flush, change oil & filter
The recorded mileage on 13 December 2019 was 80,514.
Within an hour of collecting the car the engine light illuminated and the car went into limp 
mode for a third time. The car was returned to the second garage where it was repaired and 
returned to Mrs C in early January 2020 (some three weeks or so later). Mrs C has been 
unable to provide an invoice for this work but says the cost was in the region of £520.
After the above, the repairing garage confirmed to Mrs C (in writing):
On initial inspection, slight engine noise and low oil pressure. We flushed out engine 
and changed oil & filter, reset service indicator, all seemed OK.
Recovered vehicle again, with the same fault. On advice from [manufacturer 
dealership] we removed the sump and checked the oil strainer and reassembled. 
It was obvious that the sump had previously been removed as it had various marks 
on sump and excessive amount of instant gasket had been used. Again, all seemed 
ok when finished.
Further recent investigations we believe there are issues with oil pumps on these 
vehicles.
In January 2020  after Mrs C had complained  Moneybarn wrote to her to say that it was 
glad to hear that her car was now working. But having paid £391 for car hire for 
December 2019/January 2020 and given the repairs undertaken were unauthorised, it wasnt 
prepared to do anything, or pay anything, further.
In February 2020 the car passed its MOT test. The recorded mileage on the certificate was 
82,644.
In March 2020 the car broke down again (same issue). Mrs C says she wasnt prepared, or 
able, to get it repaired so she bought a second car at a cost of £750.
On 1 May 2020 Mrs C declared the car SORN for one month. During this period, it went into 
a third garage where further repairs were undertaken at a cost of £776.28.The invoice dated 29 May 2020 states:
Oil pressure low. Removed sump to check oil strainer. Found to be clogged.
Removed injectors and found injector leaking exhaust gases into cam cover.
Replaced injector washers and refitted.
Replaced oil strainer and refitted sump.
Engine flushed. Renewed auxiliary belt.
Changed oil and filter.
The recorded mileage on 29 May 2020 was 83,168.
On 4 January 2021 the car broke down again.
On 21 January 2021 Mrs C declared the car SORN indefinitely. The recorded mileage on 
21 January 2021 was 87,108.
On 30 January 2021 Mrs C paid £80 to have her cherished plate taken off the car.
In February 2021 Mrs C didnt put the car through a MOT test.
On 1 June 2021 Mrs C renewed her insurance for a further year.
Mrs Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs C didnt agree and provided the investigator with confirmation from the first repairing 
garage which said:
We wish to confirm that prior to any repair being carried out on this vehicle that the 
sump pan had previously been removed with the possibility of an earlier repair. 
(scratches on sump and excess sealer)
And confirmation from the second repairing garage which said:
I can confirm that before any work was carried out on the above vehicle, that on 
inspection the sump pan had previously been removed multiple times  various 
marks on sump and excessive gasket sealer.
The investigator considered Mrs Cs response to his initial view and concluded that her 
complaint should be upheld rather than not. In summary he said he was satisfied that Mrs C 
was provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality in March 2019 and that Moneybarn 
should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mrs C
refund the SORN cost together with interest
refund the monthly payments made by Mrs C from May 2020 to present together with 
interest
refund the cost of repairs undertaken together with interest
After some correspondence was exchanged, Mrs C confirmed that she accepted the 
investigators second view. After some time Moneybarn, having received further comments and evidence from the 
investigator, confirmed it didnt accept the investigators view. In summary it said:
it didnt believe the recorded mileage of 70,000 on the sales invoice was materially 
incorrect
in any event the mileage has been noted on the sales invoice as being unconfirmed
it didnt believe the car was supplied with a service having recently been carried out 
by the supplying dealership
an oil change was likely required at 75,000 miles rather than at 83,000
The investigator considered Moneybarns response to his view but wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore, the complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I would like to say that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would also like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider 
is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mrs C acquired the car under a Conditional Sale Agreement, which is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Moneybarn is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with 
complaints about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements 
such as the one Mrs C entered into. 
Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to be of satisfactory quality where they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. 
I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but arent limited to, the age and 
mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. 
In Mrs Cs case the car was used, with a cash price of £12,079. It had covered around 
70,000 miles and was approximately four years old when she acquired it. I would have 
different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. But given the age, mileage and 
price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would have reasonably high 
expectations of it and would expect the quality of it to be of a higher standard than a car 
which was older or had a lower price. Also, I think a reasonable person would expect it to be 
free from defects (other than say minor ones) for a considerable period of time. Considering:
the price paid for the car, its age and mileage 
that there has been four unsuccessful attempts to repair what seems to be the same 
and a reoccurring issue (after approximately 7, 9 and 14 months)
the information provided by two of the garages involved in attempting to repair the 
car
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mrs C.
Before I go on to outline what I think Moneybarn should do to fairly and reasonably 
compensate Mrs C for the car being of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to her, I want to 
address a number of issues raised by both the parties to this complaint.
Mrs C submits that the mileage of 70,000 recorded on the sales invoice is incorrect and 
therefore she had not travelled 8,387 miles before the car first broke down in October 2019. 
Now I accept that 70,000 miles is unlikely to be correct, especially given that the MOT 
certificate dated 13 February 2019 records the mileage as 70,591. But in my view given how 
soon after this MOT test Mrs C acquired the car (about six weeks later), the miles travelled 
by the previous owner and that the car was likely to have been on the supplying dealerships 
forecourt without moving for at least some of this six week period, I think the mileage at the 
time of supply was no more than 70,999 and it was simply rounded down. I would also add 
that if the mileage recorded on the invoice was wrong by more than 999 miles I might have 
expected Mrs C to have questioned this before taking delivery of the car.
Moneybarn says there is insufficient evidence to suggest that the car was serviced 
immediately prior to it being supplied to Mrs C. Therefore, it follows that the car would have 
required a service (including an oil change) at 75,000 miles. And if Mrs C got this done this 
might be the reason for the fault manifesting itself in October 2019 and if she didnt, this 
failure could be the reason for the fault manifesting itself in October 2019.
Mrs C has provided our service with the cars service history which shows that the car had 
its 5 year/62,500 mile service on 7 December 2018 when the mileage was 68,003. So, in my 
view, the car didnt need a service until December 2019 or until 80,503 miles, this being after 
the fault first manifested itself in October 2019 and at 78,387 miles. Im also satisfied that 
Mrs C didnt get the car serviced before the fault first manifested itself in October 2019.
I accept that Mrs C got the car repaired  albeit unsuccessfully  in October 2019 without 
Moneybarns permission. But given that Mrs C was on holiday at the time I dont think this 
decision was unreasonable. Im also not persuaded that Mrs C not contacting Moneybarn 
prejudiced it in anyway. I say this because in my view had Mrs C contacted Moneybarn it 
would have either declined the repair, leaving Mrs C in a precarious position away from 
home, or authorised it. 
I also accept that Mrs C got the car repaired for a second and third time in 
December 2019/January 2020 without Moneybarns express permission. But I can see that 
Mrs C was at least in contact with Moneybarn during this time. And in my view given the 
stance Moneybarn was taking in December 2019/January 2020 and Mrs Cs personal 
circumstances (not in dispute) her actions in this respect were again not unreasonable.Mrs C also got the car repaired for a fourth time in May 2020 without Moneybarns 
permission. Now I do have some concerns about Mrs Cs decision in this respect. But Ive to 
balance this against Mrs Cs personal circumstances and that Moneybarn had concluded in 
January 2020, and that was it wasnt prepared to do anything, or pay anything, further.
As I say above, Im satisfied that Mrs C was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality. So, what I now need to decide is what constitutes fair and reasonable compensation 
is this case.
In my view Mrs C should be able to reject the car. I accept that Moneybarn hasnt had the 
opportunity to have the car repaired itself. But as I say above, I dont think this has, in itself, 
prejudiced it. I also think that a further repair is unlikely to fix the problem so doesnt offer an 
appropriate remedy.
The car should be collected from Mrs C at no cost to her and the agreement should be 
ended. And any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect of 
the issue subject to this complaint should be removed. 
For the reasons Ive given, I think Mrs C should have the repair costs she has been able to 
evidence refunded together with interest. As I understand it these evidenced costs are:
14 October 2019 £251.62
13 December 2019 £218.88
29 May 2020 £776.28
Because Ive found the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied I think its only fair 
that Moneybarn refund the cost incurred by Mrs C in having her cherished plate removed 
from the car and put on retention. Mrs C has provided evidence that she incurred £80 in this 
respect on 30 January 2021.
I thinks its fair that Mrs C should have refunded any monthly payments she made against 
her agreement when she was unable to use the car and where she had no access to a 
courtesy or hire car. However, equally, I think its only fair that Moneybarn should be able to 
retain the payments made by Mrs C for the months she had use of the car or access to a 
courtesy or hire car. It should also be remembered that Mrs C was able to travel in the 
region of 16,000 miles in the car before it broke down for the final time. 
My understanding, based on what the parties have said and submitted, is that Mrs C had 
access to the car, or a courtesy or hire car, for about 18 months but not for the following 
times:
March to May 2020 inclusive
January 2021 to date of settlement.
And its only fair that these monthly payments should be refunded together with interest. 
I would add that despite more than one request being made by our service, Moneybarn 
hasnt provided us with an up to date statement of account so Ive taken Mrs Cs submission 
that she hasnt missed a single payment to be accurate.Ive considered whether Mrs C should also be compensated for other costs she might have 
incurred.
First, given that Ive awarded Mrs C a refund of a number of monthly payments, I dont think 
it would be fair to direct Moneybarn to refund the costs Mrs C might have incurred in buying 
a second (or even a third) car. But I can see that she might have incurred other costs that 
should be fairly refunded, such as  but not restricted to  car tax and insurance. But having 
considered these costs I dont think it would be fair to direct Moneybarn to refund them.
I say this because its possible that Mrs C might have been able to secure part refunds in 
respect of these costs from other parties or might be able to do so in the future. Ive also 
taken into account that although Mrs C might have incurred some other costs, she has also 
saved some, including  but not restricted to  a February 2021 MOT test and a December 
2019 or 80,503 mile service.
Finally, I think that Mrs C should also be compensated for the distress and inconvenience 
this whole matter has caused her. Ive given this some careful thought and given Mrs Cs 
personal circumstances and how long this matter has been going on for, I think £500 
represents an appropriate sum in this respect.
I then went on to detail precisely what Moneybarn should do to fairly and reasonably 
compensate Mrs C.
Mrs C responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision but asked if I would 
consider awarding her the £520 or so she paid for repair works in January 2020 on 
submission of the relevant invoice. 
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date given of 21 August 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mrs C accepted my provisional decision (and didnt submit any further invoices for 
my consideration) and given that Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision by the 
date I gave I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as 
final.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must:
allow Mrs C to reject the car and end the finance agreement; 
collect the car at no cost to Mrs C; 
refund the payments made by Mrs C for March, April and May 2020 and from 
January 2021 to the date of settlement together with 8% simple interest per year on 
each payment made from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
refund the repair costs incurred by Mrs C of £251.62, £218.88 and £776.28 together 
with 8% simple interest per year on each payment made from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement*;refund the cost incurred by Mrs C of £80 in removing her cherished number plate 
from the car together with 8% simple interest per year on the payment from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs C £500 for the distress and inconvenience she has experienced;
remove any adverse information it may have made against Mrs Cs credit file in 
relation to the issue subject to this complaint.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take tax off this interest. 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if 
Mrs C asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman