DRN-3506719
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S complain that because Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly
refused them an increased loan, they were unable to port their mortgage when they were
buying another property and had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). Mr B and Mrs S
want a refund of the valuation fee of £200 and the ERC of £12,370.51.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs S had a mortgage with Halifax with a mortgage product on a fixed rate for a
fixed period. If Mr B and Mrs S redeemed the mortgage early, they would have had to pay an
ERC, but this could be avoided if the mortgage product could be ported. Mr B and Mrs S
were looking to move to a new house and, through a broker, got a Decision in Principle
(DIP) from Halifax in September 2020 for a mortgage of £450,000. With that knowledge
they looked for a new home. Mr B and Mrs S proceeded with the house purchase and on 18
January 2021, they got a DIP for £560,000. But then they were told on 11 February that they
wouldnt get the mortgage they needed to complete the house purchase. The maximum
Halifax would lend was £391,005. So, Mr B and Mrs S had to go to another lender and pay
the ERC. They say they were told that this was because Mrs S was self-employed and feel
that this is discriminatory against self-employed people.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as his view was that
Halifax had done nothing wrong. Mr B and Mrs S disagreed saying in summary that on 18
January 2020, they got a DIP for £560,000 which was for more than the £435,000 borrowing
they required but then in February Halifax declined to lend that amount. They consider it
unfair that they have to pay an ERC because of Halifaxs refusal.
My provisional findings
I reviewed this complaint and issued my provisional findings as follows:
Mr B and Mrs S had a fixed rate mortgage product with Halifax that would spark an ERC if it
was redeemed. Like most such mortgages it could be ported but only if the lender approved
the lending on the new property. In this case Mr B and Mrs S were increasing their borrowing
but according to the DIP produced on 18 January that borrowing appeared affordable but
then later Halifax decided that they would only lend to a maximum of about £390,000.
Mr B and Mrs S redeemed the mortgage in any case and, as they didnt take out a new
mortgage with Halifax, had to pay the ERC. They feel they were treated unfairly by Halifax.
They have difficulty comprehending why, given the DIP, that the amount offered by Halifax
was so reduced. Mr B is employed and Mrs S self-employed and they feel that the lending
process may discriminate against the self-employed.
Since our investigator issued his view, we asked for further information from Halifax to clarify
their position. There is clearly a substantial difference between the DIP and the possible loan
available. Halifax says that the DIP was based on declared income and the potential offer
based on verified income which was after an assessment of the documentation supplied
verifying the income. So, as I understand it, the explanation for the difference is that the
declared income for Mr B which was input by the broker was substantially higher than the
income verified by Halifax after it looked at the documentation submitted on behalf of Mr B.
The other issue is how Mrs Ss self-employed income was treated. Halifax applies different
income multiples depending on whether it is employed or self-employed income. How
Halifax assesses risk in terms of employment and self-employment is a matter for Halifaxs
commercial judgement as long as it applies its assessment fairly. Lenders do treat the
sources of income differently and some treat self-employed income as a less sure source of
income than income from employment. Thats not unreasonable given that employed income
will normally be based on a contractual entitlement under a contract of employment whereas
self-employed income wont. So, I dont consider treating sources of income differently was
unfair.
In any case, Mrs Ss income was substantially below Mr Bs and I dont consider that the
differentiation between employed and self-employed income in terms of income multiples
would have made any significant difference to the application. So, I consider that there is a
reasonable explanation for the difference in outcome between the DIP and the maximum
loan available. Halifax appears to have treated the application fairly and assessed the
application using its affordability criteria. Unfortunately, Mrs S and Mr B didnt meet Halifaxs
affordability criteria for the loan they wanted. So, as Halifax did nothing wrong in regard to
the mortgage application and Mr B and Mrs S redeemed the mortgage in any case, I cant
fairly require Halifax to refund the ERC.
There is one other matter. We noticed that in the notes Halifax said that because of the
nature of the application that it wouldnt instruct a valuation until the underwriters approved
the application. But a valuation was instructed in any case and not put on hold. As a result,
Halifax has now agreed to refund the valuation fee of £200. As this failure would have
caused Mr B and Mrs S distress and was one of the reasons for bringing this complaint, I
believe that they should receive compensation of £100 for that distress and on that basis, Im 
upholding this complaint in part and awarding that compensation.
Before issuing my final decision, I invited any further submissions from Mr B and Mrs S or 
from Halifax. Halifax said it had nothing further to add. Mr B and Mrs S forwarded me 
correspondence between the broker and Halifax and say that they still dont understand why 
Halifax declined to lend because of an internal score and they shouldnt be made to pay a 
penalty because Halifax decided not to move their mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that this was a substantial ERC that Mr B and Mrs S had to pay to Halifax. An ERC 
will be payable if a mortgage is redeemed unless the mortgage product was ported to a 
Halifax mortgage on a new property and that required Halifax to offer a mortgage on the new 
property. In this case Mr B and Mrs S have difficulty reconciling the fact that they got a DIP 
showing that the mortgage was affordable but when they applied for that mortgage, Halifax 
said that their income wouldnt support the mortgage that they wanted and thats supported 
by the affordability assessment that Halifax conducted on the application.  Halifax explained 
the discrepancy with the DIP resulting from the difference between the information inputted 
by the broker and the verified income inputted by Halifax at application stage which 
produced a lower figure. But in any case, Mr B and Mrs Ss income as verified by Halifax and 
under its lending criteria didnt support the mortgage that they wanted. That was unfortunate 
but there is nothing to suggest that Halifax did anything wrong and considered the 
application fairly. Mr B and Mrs S have sent me further documentation that Ive considered but Im afraid it doesnt alter my view that my provisional decision represents a fair outcome 
to this complaint. So, I shall be upholding this complaint in part but not to the extent that Mr 
B and Mrs S would wish me to do.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay compensation of £100 and refund he valuation fee of £200.
My final decision
My decision is hat I uphold this complaint in part and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay compensation of £100 and refund the valuation fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman