DRN-3296263
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined a loan application which he says he 
didnt agree to submit. 
What happened
Mr O says he received an email from Barclays Bank to say he had been pre-selected to 
apply for a personal loan up to £14,000. Mr O says he logged into the Barclays Bank mobile 
app to get information to help him make a decision on whether to apply. Mr O says he 
entered a loan amount of £7,000 and account details for where he wanted the money to be 
paid and also direct debit details, but the app then crashed. Mr O says it wasnt until he 
called Barclays Bank the following day that he was told his loan application had been 
declined on the basis the £7,000 he applied for exceeded the amount they were prepared to 
lend. Mr O says he didnt agree to submit the application so he complained to Barclays 
Bank.     
Barclays Bank responded and said, at the time of Mr Os application he was pre-selected for 
a loan of £14,000. But once he started his application and provided his personal details, the 
pre-selected limit of £14,000 was removed meaning his application for a £7,000 loan was 
declined. Barclays Bank said, their terms and conditions set out that pre-selected limits 
arent guaranteed and can be changed or withdrawn at any point. Barclays Bank said they 
are sorry to hear Mr O had experienced technical difficulties during the loan application but 
they couldnt find any reported issues regarding their app or lending applications at the time 
Mr Os application was processed. Barclays Bank said, as they hadnt identified any bank 
errors they are unable to remove any reports that had been provided to Credit Reference 
Agencies as this was factual information.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. He thought there hadnt been any error by 
Barclays Bank and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Mr O says his concern isnt around Barclays Bank declining the application and not wanting 
this showing on his credit file. Hes unhappy about receiving an email letting him know he 
had been pre-selected for a loan. Hes also unhappy about the app, in particular, the app 
also told him hed been pre-selected for £14,000 but, because he didnt need this amount, 
he requested £7,000 but this was declined. And, hes concerned about the questions he was 
asked while going through the application process on the app. He says the app didnt ask 
any questions about his finances, only how much he wanted to borrow and which account he 
wanted the money to be paid into. Mr O says the app then crashed while moving to the next 
stage and when he logged back in, there wasnt any option to continue with the previous 
application. Mr O says he didnt realise at the time that his application had been submitted.  
Pre-selected for loan 
Barclays Bank dont have a copy of the email sent to Mr O to say hed been pre-selected for 
a loan  they say this information is only available for 90 days. That said, I dont doubt Mr O 
received an email as he says this is what initially encouraged him to log into the app. 
Barclays Bank have provided a walkthrough of the application journey on the app. This 
shows the first page says Youve been pre-selected to apply for a loan Mr O says this 
had a figure of £14,000 as his pre-selected loan amount. This also says This provisional 
loan limit is based on our recent review of your accounts and what we know about you and 
the way you run them. This review may not be completely up to date, so loans are subject to 
application, financial circumstances and borrowing history. Barclays Bank say this confirms 
pre-selected loans arent guaranteed and this is a term and condition built into the 
application process. 
I agree with Barclays Banks point here and I think the statement, which is at the foot of the 
first page, suggests the pre-selected amount isnt guaranteed and can be subject to change 
based on other information. So, while I can understand why Mr O is concerned about 
receiving communication saying hes been pre-selected, I cant say Barclays Bank have 
made an error here as the pre-selected loan limit is provisional  and the final loan amount 
would be conditional on additional factors. 
The questions on the app
The app walkthrough shows the questions which were put to Mr O during the application. I 
can see Mr O was asked how much hed like to borrow, account details for where hed like 
the money paid and also the account where the direct debit would be taken from. The 
walkthrough shows further questions, this includes questions asking Mr O about his monthly 
salary, if he has dependents and, if so, how much Mr O spends on dependents each month, 
and whether his monthly spending has increased in the last eight weeks and, if so, by what 
amount. The app also asked whether Mr O is aware if his income might decrease during the 
loan period and if hes aware of any increases to his monthly spending during the loan term. 
I think its important to note, our service doesnt have power to require a business to change 
their processes. Or to direct a business on what specific questions should be asked as part 
of a loan application. I think the questions asked during the application process were 
reasonable and the type I would expect a business to ask to help them assess an 
application. 
The app crashing 
Barclays Bank say their logs dont show the error Mr O experienced when he was going 
through the application process. They have provided a log of Mr O successfully logging into 
the app. They say, had there been any issues with the app, Mr O wouldnt have been able to 
log in at all. 
The log shows Mr O logging into his app on the day the application was submitted. I can see 
our investigator has asked Mr O for any evidence of the app crashing. Mr O has provided a 
webchat conversation he had with Barclays Bank on the day the application was submitted. 
In this webchat, Mr O says, after he entered details of the account he wanted to pay the 
direct debits from, there was an error so he closed the app and tried to restart the application 
but there wasnt an option to apply for the loan. I cant see Barclays Bank reply to say there 
was an error but, looking at the time Mr O sent his webchat message, its consistent with the times shown on the log for when Mr O was logged into the app. So, while I cant say for 
certain precisely when the error message mightve appeared  and whether this was part-
way or at the end of the application process  I think Mr Os webchat message is a 
contemporaneous account of what happened at the time. 
That said, I cant say for certain the cause of the error was down to Barclays Banks app. I 
can see Barclays Bank discussed this with Mr O and the complaint handler confirmed to him 
there were no reported issues with their app. Barclays Banks call note says that the 
complaints handler asked Mr O to check he had the latest operating system on his mobile 
phone and also the latest version of the app. The call note says the app was the latest 
version but Mr Os operating system wasnt  so the complaint handler felt this mightve 
caused the app to crash.  
Even though I have no evidence to suggest Barclays Banks app crashed due to their error - 
Ive thought carefully about what the impact has been here, if it was, and whether there 
wouldve been a different outcome. Mr O says he hadnt agreed to submit an application, but 
I believe, its more likely than not, it was Mr Os intention to apply. I say this because, firstly 
Mr O logged into the app following receipt of the pre-selected notification and started 
completing the application. And, secondly, Mr O has told our service that, after the 
application was declined, he applied for a loan with another lender a day later and this was 
accepted.  
Barclays Bank have provided information setting out the criteria against which Mr Os 
application was considered. And, given that I believe Mr Os intention was to apply for the 
loan, even if an error hadnt occurred at any point with the app, his application would still 
have been considered in line with the same criteria  and Ive seen no evidence to persuade 
me Barclays Banks decision wouldve been different. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman