The complaint
Mr C complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined his claim for repairs on 
the breakdown repair cover (BRC) part of his roadside assistance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car broke down and he made a claim to Acromas for the repairs. But Acromas 
declined the claim as it said the same fault was found during an earlier MOT and a repairing 
garage hadnt made the correct repair. It thought Mr C should take this up with the garage. 
But Mr C thought this was unfair as hed had the repair made at an Acromas selected 
garage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Acromas could decline the claim for two reasons. Firstly, she thought the repair was pre-
existing. But then she thought Mr C had the repair made, albeit unsuccessfully, so he 
couldnt have prevented the breakdown. And she secondly thought that the repairer hadnt 
been authorised by Acromas. This was also an exclusion under the policy.
Acromas replied that the repair wouldnt be covered as it had been identified during an MOT. 
Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Mr Cs policy excludes from 
cover pre-existing faults:
Pre-existing faults are faults that you have been made aware of either as part of your 
servicing, MOT or through any other repair. Or a fault you are already aware of.
Acromas initially relied on this exclusion to decline Mr Cs claim. It said he had made a claim 
following an MOT where the fault had been identified. This claim was then declined because 
of the exclusion. 
Mr C said he then had repairs made, but the same fault recurred some months later. 
Acromas again declined the claim for the same reason. But I agree with the investigator that 
this wouldnt be fair if Mr C had had repairs made. He wouldnt then be aware that the fault 
would be something that could be prevented. 
DRN-1057384But I can see that Mr Cs policy also excludes from cover breakdowns where:
The failure is caused by You or anyone the AA has not authorised to carry out a repair
Mr C had the previous fault repaired at a garage. I havent seen that Acromas authorised this 
garage to make the repairs though its operative may have directed Mr C to it. 
Mr C told Acromas that the breakdown was caused by the garage not carrying out the repair 
properly. He said it hadnt replaced the parts required. So I think the failure was most likely 
caused by the garage. And so I think Acromas can reasonably rely on this exclusion to 
decline the claim. So I think Acromas has acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the 
policy terms and conditions. 
As the investigator has already explained, we cant investigate a complaint against the 
garage as its an unregulated service. She has already explained the avenues open to Mr C 
to raise his concerns about the garages repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman