DRN-3289560
The complaint
Mr L says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for a hotel room.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr L used his American Express Services Europe Limited credit card 
(Amex for short) to pay for a hotel room for family members for two nights. He paid Firm A 
who had provided information about availability and rates for the hotel room on its website. 
The cost was £237.04, and this was allocated to Mr Ls credit card account and the room 
was booked with a separate company who provided hotel accommodation (the Hotel).
On arrival at the Hotel in November 2019 Mr L says the lift didnt work and there was no hot 
water. So the family members left the following day only using one of the two nights the 
room was booked for. Mr L complained and was unsuccessful with the Hotel. So he 
complained to Firm A who said the agreement was non-refundable, non-cancellable or 
changeable. It also said that the Hotel had told it that the Lift not working had been notified to 
the guests and that had there been any issues with hot water, engineers had been available 
at the time. It also said that guests had to inform the Hotel of issues to allow the opportunity 
of them being dealt with.
So he took his dispute to Amex to see if it could help. Amex says it considered the matter 
and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund him the cost of the room. However it 
did pay him £50 for some of its own customer service issues. So Mr L still unsatisfied 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Amex didnt have to do any more for Mr L for broader reasons than 
given by Amex. And Mr L remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L used his Amex credit card to pay Firm A for the hotel room. This means Amex has 
certain responsibilities to Mr L which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing 
Mr L to hold Amex liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to 
the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract 
occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue 
leading to detriment.
Amex also operates the card network its credit cards are used in. And this network has rules 
which includes giving Amex an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, 
namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Amex and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr L fairly. This decision isnt about Firm A or the 
Hotel, neither of which are parties to this decision and neither of which are within this 
services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr L does 
here, Amex can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr L doesnt dispute that he 
used his Amex credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transaction itself. So I dont think Amex couldve challenged the payment on the 
basis Mr L didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Amex considered what Mr L told it about what happened and considered the Chargeback 
scheme rules that it operates. It notes that the hotel room was stayed in albeit only for one of 
two nights. It notes that the agreement entered into was not cancellable, changeable, or 
refundable. So it decided not to raise a chargeback with the Hotel as it didnt consider there 
to be a reasonable prospect of success.
Having considered the matter and what information is available here I dont think Mr L has 
lost out here because Amex didnt raise a Chargeback, as I think, on balance, such a 
Chargeback was unlikely to succeed.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ls claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr L) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier-the Hotel here) as 
well as with the credit provider (the Creditor-Amex). And this is the crux of the complaint 
here. Mr L says that the DCS relationship is in place so Amex can be held liable for any 
breach of contract by the Hotel.
The Hotel was due to supply Mr L with the hotel room, but it wasnt who he paid with his 
credit card. He paid Firm A. Mr L says he wasnt aware of this issue until some-time after the 
purchase. Firm A says it acts as a marketplace and/or introducer. Its terms and conditions 
regarding hotel stays states:Through the Site, (Firm A) provides an online platform through which you can browse 
different types of lodging and temporary accommodation By making a booking through the 
Site, you make an offer to book a reservation at the price listed for such reservation and 
such other terms and conditions stated on the Site. This shall become a binding contract 
formed in (abroad where Firm A is based) pursuant to the Terms of Use when accepted by 
the Accommodation and consequently (Firm A). (Underlined is my emphasis).
When rendering our services, the information that we disclose about Accommodations is 
based on the information provided to us by our suppliers or providers Each 
Accommodation remains responsible at all times for the accuracy, completeness and 
correctness of the Accommodation information displayed on the Site.
The Site does not constitute and should not be regarded as a recommendation or 
endorsement of (the quality, service level or rating of any Accommodation listed on the Site. 
We hereby expressly disclaim any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the 
quality, status or adequacy of any Accommodation listed on the Site.
And these are the terms Mr L agreed to when using its service. So its clear that by using the 
site Mr L accepted Firm As Terms of Use including the sections of the Terms Ive quoted. By 
making a booking through the site Mr L offered to book a reservation at the Hotel. And when 
the Hotel accepted this offer of reservation this created a contract for the supply of the Hotel 
room between the Hotel and Mr L. 
However Mr L paid Firm A (not the Hotel) but the issues Mr L said were suffered were with 
the Hotel. So clearly there are four parties here namely Mr L, the Hotel, Firm A and Amex. 
So Im not persuaded that DCS is in place here with regard to the services provided by the 
Hotel. It is in place between Firm A, Mr L and Amex but I dont see any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Firm A here in relation to the services it provided. After all it introduced 
Mr L to the hotel and provided booking services which he used successfully. 
And as for the services provided by the Hotel, there are four parties here as Ive described. 
So Im not satisfied this meets the criteria for DCS as set out in the CCA.
Mr L points to certain case law in his attempt to show DCS is made out. He points to the 
Court of Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT 
case). However this isnt persuasive here as it is distinguishable to my mind. The OFT case 
was about a specific type of fourth party being present-specifically Merchant Acquirers. This 
is where there is a four-party relationship where instead of the agreement being between the 
card issuer and the supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
So in essence Merchant Acquirers are financial transaction service providers who have 
entered the market to solely provide such transactional facilitation services between 
Suppliers and Card issuers. They provide no direct services to the card holder (Mr L here) 
and in many, if not most, cases such Merchant Acquirers are invisible to the cardholder. 
Whereas here Mr L is well aware that when dealing with Firm A that it is in essence an 
introducer which is providing him a service and that the Hotel services he requires are 
provided by the Hotel. So Im not persuaded by Mr L pointing to this case that my view 
should change.Mr L could have pointed to when the High Court considered S75 in the case of Governor and 
Company of the Bank of Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman 
case) the High Court held that its the nature of the role that each party plays and the nexus 
between the supplier and creditor thats the relevant consideration. And that involved a five-
party structure. However for similar reasons to the OFT case I also think this is 
distinguishable as the extra parties present in Truman were only involved in the processing 
of the transaction itself and didnt supply the debtor with services outside of the provision of 
financial transactional services. Whereas here Mr L had clear relationships and services 
being provided to him by both Firm A and separately the Hotel and he was receiving the 
credit from Amex. So I dont think the case law in the S75 arena supports Mr Ls arguments 
here.
So Im satisfied the requirements of the CCA around DCS are not made out here. And 
accordingly Amex cannot be held responsible for any breach or misrepresentation made by 
the Hotel here. So Mr Ls complaint is unsuccessful. 
For completeness I shall now deal with Mr Ls arguments. Mr L says many people use such 
booking facilities for trips away. And hes correct in this. However I should add that there 
many firms that provide similar services such as to Firm A to consumers, however the 
contractual terms between parties varies hugely. In some cases firms similar to Firm A 
stipulate in their terms that they act as the supplier and in such cases DCS is in place for the 
supply of the end product-whether it be flights or accommodation or similar. But many do not 
have terms such as this, such as Firm A, and DCS isnt in place. Furthermore package 
holidays benefit from extra protections which arent always afforded when consumers 
purchase items to make up a holiday separately (that is they purchase flights, tours, or 
accommodation separately). More information about this can be found in the Packaged 
Travel Regulations which are available on the government legislation website 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/
And many people do use firms such as Firm A for travel as Mr L says. And they have the 
option of booking where such firms act as Suppliers or for making bookings without such 
protections.
Mr L says that such exclusions do not follow the intent of the legislation. The legislation 
stems from 1974 when such website based commercial offerings didnt exist and clearly the 
marketplace for the provision of credit was far simpler than it is now. Ive quoted two of the 
most relevant subsequent Case Law in this decision and I dont think it makes a difference. 
Furthermore I should reiterate that the test here is whether Amex treated Mr L fairly or not in 
its consideration of the matter.
Mr L says Firm A shouldnt be able to disclaim what suppliers such as the hotel say about 
the services they provide. However these are the terms Mr L entered into when dealing with 
Firm A. And Firm A isnt a provider of regulated services which this Service has jurisdiction 
over. Mr L reiterates that it acted as agent but clearly this isnt the case as the terms Mr L 
agreed to with it make clear this isnt the case.
Mr L says any such disclaimers about the services that Firm A provides are unfair contract 
terms. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) works to ensure that terms and 
conditions in contracts with consumers are fair. It says contracts should be transparent and 
in plain and intelligible language. A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, 
it causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to 
the detriment of the consumer. Ive considered this and this service will strike out terms it 
feels that are such unfair terms in contracts. But Im not persuaded these terms are unfair. 
They make clear the relationships of the parties and how Firm A act. So I dont think they are 
unfair and consequently its not unfair for Amex to point to them.It should also be remembered that the only reason Amex is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Amex wouldnt have any 
potential liability for the Hotel room at all (it would have obligations around Chargeback but 
that isnt nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am 
to hold Amex liable the tests required under the CCA must be met including DCS. And Im 
satisfied it isnt made out here.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr L has said, Im not persuaded 
Amex has treated Mr L unfairly. Im not persuaded that the required relationship was made 
out for the issues Mr L complains about, namely the services provided by the Hotel. And I 
think having considered what happened Amex has sufficiently dealt with its own customer 
service issues by making the offer it made. So I dont think Amex hasnt done anything 
wrong here which needs remedy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman