DRN-3071524
The complaint
Mr L complains about the level of service provided by Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
when administering his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay for the cost of a 
replacement windscreen and reimburse him for overcharging his premium at renewal. 
What happened
Mr L took out a policy through Hastings in 2015 and renewed it until 2019. He made a claim 
for windscreen damage, but he found that he wasnt covered for this as he expected. He 
thought his premium had been increased to provide this cover. Mr Ls policy then came up 
for renewal and, when he called Hastings to discuss this, Hastings applied a discount. Mr L 
thought he may have been overcharged in previous years and treated differently due to his 
disability. He was also unhappy with the service provided by Hastings agents.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Ls 
policy had never provided cover for windscreen damage. He explained that Mr L had 
previously complained about his premium increases at renewal in 2017 and 2018 and that 
he was out of time to bring this complaint to us. He also explained that the insurer, not his 
broker Hastings, set the premium. And so he should raise a complaint about the 2019 
renewal with the insurer. 
The investigator looked at Hastings records and couldnt see that it knew that Mr L was 
disabled. And so he didnt think this had affected his premiums or had led to unfair 
treatment. He thought Hastings was entitled to apply a discount at renewal. And he listened 
to calls between Mr L and Hastings and thought Hastings agents hadnt spoken to Mr L 
inappropriately.
Mr L replied that he wanted an ombudsmans review of his complaint, so its come to me for 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L said he thought his comprehensive policy covered him for windscreen damage. But 
when he made a claim after a pebble hit his windscreen, he was told this wasnt covered by 
his policy. Ive looked at Mr Ls 2019 policy and I can see that it has a clear exclusion for 
windscreen damage in the policy summary on page 8 of the policy booklet:
This Policy doesn't cover;
 Damage to your car's windscreen or glass windows.
The same exclusion was in Mr Ls previous policies with Hastings. Mr L said hed received 
an email from Hastings saying that he had windscreen and tyre cover. But he hasnt 
provided us with a copy of this email, despite our requests. So I cant consider this further. 
Mr L provided a screenshot taken from Hastings website where it shows that windscreen 
cover is offered. But this doesnt mean that it was included in the particular policy Mr L 
bought. 
I can see that Mr L said he hadnt received a copy of the policy booklet. But I can also see 
from Hastings records that it sent him a copy. I think it was for Mr L to reasonably contact 
Hastings if he hadnt received his policy documents. And as windscreen damage was clearly 
excluded from cover, I dont require Hastings to reimburse Mr L for his outlay for windscreen 
replacement.
Mr L was unhappy with his premium at renewal and he thought hed been treated differently 
due to his disability. As the investigator explained, the insurer sets the premium, not 
Hastings. Mr L has previously complained about his premiums for 2017 and 2018 and he 
had six months in which to bring his complaint to us. But he didnt do so and so I think his 
complaint about the premiums in 2017 and 2018 is out of time. And if Mr L remains unhappy 
with his 2019 premium, he should complain to his insurer directly about this.
Hastings has provided us with the answers provided by Mr L to its questions when he took 
out his policy. And I cant see that he disclosed any disability then or that Hastings was 
aware of this. So I can see no evidence that Hastings treated Mr L any differently due to his 
disability.
Mr L wanted an explanation of why Hastings was able to offer him a significant discount on 
his 2019 renewal quote when he called it. Hastings explained that its able to offer discounts 
for such things as loyalty at times. I dont think this is unusual or caused Mr L any loss. Mr L 
was reminded that he could shop around for cheaper cover if he wished. And I cant say that 
Hastings did anything wrong in this.
Mr L was unhappy with Hastings level of customer service. But, from the calls provided, I 
havent heard that Hastings agents were rude or unprofessional in their conversations with 
Mr L. Mr L was unhappy at times with the answers that he was provided. And he was 
unhappy with an example Hastings agent provided of similar price fluctuations. But I dont 
think Hastings intended to cause him offence or treated Mr L unfairly.
In conclusion, I havent seen evidence that Mr Ls policy included windscreen cover. So I 
dont require Hastings to reimburse this cost. I havent seen evidence that his renewal 
premiums were calculated unfairly or differently to other consumers. And so Im satisfied that 
Mr L isnt due any refunds. I havent seen that Hastings agents spoke to Mr L 
unprofessionally or unreasonably. And so I dont require Hastings to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman