DRN-3721388
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money withdrew money from his 
account to pay a third party without consent. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Virgin Money withdrew money from Mr Ys savings account and paid it to a 
Sheriff Officer who was collecting a debt for a third party. 
Mr Y raised a complaint with Virgin Money but it didnt agree to refund the payment it made. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ys complaint. They didnt think Virgin Money had 
treated Mr Y unfairly by making the payment from his account. Mr Y asked to appeal and 
said the arrestment Virgin Money received from the Sheriff Officer was not a decree from a 
court requiring it to make the payment. 
As Mr Y asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Moneys explained it received an arrestment from the Sheriff Officer and that its 
legally obliged to comply. Ive looked at the arrestment and can see it relates to Mr Y and 
requires Virgin Money to make a payment on his behalf. Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y but Im 
satisfied Virgin Money acted reasonably by following the instructions noted in the arrestment 
and making a payment on his behalf to the Sheriff Officer. 
The investigator said that when funds are taken in this way by the Sheriff Officer there is a 
process for the account holder to appeal and lodge a Notice of Objection. Mr Ys told us it 
wasnt clear which court he needed to approach. I understand Mr Ys concern that the Sheriff 
Officer acted without proper instructions. But concerns about a Sheriff Officer dont fall within 
the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
If Mr Y remains unhappy with the way the Sheriff Officer went about collecting the debt, he 
has the option to contact them or the creditor and ask them to look into what happened. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y but I havent been persuaded Virgin Money acted unfairly or 
made a mistake. As a result, Im not telling Virgin Money to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman