DRN-3781212
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call D, has complained about the amount received in 
settlement of a claim under its business insurance policy with New India Assurance 
Company Limited. 
Mr J, as director of D, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
D comprises three pubs, all covered under the same insurance policy with New India. 
D contacted New India to make claims for business interruption losses suffered by each of 
the pubs when they were required to close as a result of the Governments response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. 
New India accepted the claims and settlement has been agreed for two of the pubs. In 
relation to the third claim, New India said that the sum insured was not adequate. It said 
cover had been provided on the basis the sum insured for each pub was £600,000 over 24 
months, so £300,000 per year, but the third pub had an annual gross profit of £720,000. As a 
result, New India applied the average clause in the policy, which meant the settlement was 
reduced from £95,000 to just under £40,000.
New India says the insurance D applied for was designed for small hotels, pubs and guest 
houses and the limit of liability (in this case £600,000) is in effect the sum insured. It says the 
proposal form completed by D highlighted the average clause and asked if a higher limit of 
indemnity was required. New India says that any business with an income sum insured of 
over £1,100,000 (over 24 months) is not eligible for cover, so if it had known that this third 
pub required a sum insured of £720,000 per year (£1,400,000 over 24 months) it would not 
have offered the policy. New India says it would have been the brokers responsibility to 
explain the policy cover and ensure it met Ds needs.  
D is very unhappy about this and has made a number of points in support of its complaint. I 
have considered everything it has said and have summarised its main points below: 
The policy wording is not clear. The schedule of insurance shows the period of cover 
being April 2019 to April 2020 and a maximum sum payable of £600,000. The 
wording seems to apply an annual limit rather than a specific sum insured and the 
calculated loss is nowhere near this limit.
The documentation does refer to the sum insured but it also says indemnity limit and 
benefit, so it is not clear which one is meant. 
None of the documents, including the proposal form state that the income sum 
insured is actually £300,000 per year. 
Most people without specialist insurance knowledge would not realise the sum 
insured was effectively the same as the indemnity limit. 
There is no clear mention of sum insured in the schedule, so the average clause 
should not apply. 
Even if the average clause does apply, it is poorly worded and refers to property 
value, rather than profit. It is not clear that it applies to business interruption claim for 
loss of income.
Other insurers policies and schedules set out the sum insured and average clauses 
much more clearly than new India has here. Mr J has provided some copies as 
examples.
The contract is between D and New India, so the broker is not relevant. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he considered that the policy schedule did set out the sum insured limit 
sufficiently clearly and the average clause was clear. 
D does not accept the Investigators assessment. It says the Investigator has not 
commented on the fact the documentation says £600,000 for the period of insurance which 
is April 2019 to April 2020, so 12 months, not 24 months; or that there is ambiguity and lack 
of clarity in the documentation and so it should be interpreted in its favour. 
As the Investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint. It has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
New India says that D was underinsured, as the sum insured for business interruption under 
the policy (for pub three) was significantly less than the true amount (around 41%).
Ds policy provides cover for loss of income and the schedule states:
Loss of income 
The maximum amount payable during any period of insurance £600,000.00 
Indemnity period 24 months.
The £600,000 is in a column headed Sum insured/Indemnity limit/ benefit. D says this 
means it is unclear which is meant but it seems to me clear that the £600,000 is all three  
the sum insured, the indemnity limit and the benefit. And taken together it means that D had 
business interruption cover for income of up to £600,000 over 24 months. 
D also says it is contradictory that the policy schedule also says that the maximum amount 
payable in one period of insurance (i.e. 12 months) is £600,000, when New India says this is 
the sum insured and limit of indemnity for 24 months. I can see the point D is making but I 
dont agree. This statement means that in any policy period a claim can be made with a 
maximum sum payable of £600,000 over an indemnity period of 24 months. So a claim may 
start in one policy year and be covered under that policy but can last for 24 months (even if 
the policy ends after 12 months) with a maximum sum payable of £600,000. It does not 
mean that each policy year the maximum sum of £600,000 is payable. And it does not mean 
that the sum insured is £600,000 per year. 
Ive also considered whether New India should have been aware the cover was not 
adequate. The proposal form asked: 
Please provide an estimate of annual turnover of the business set out in this Proposal and 
D answered £1,330,000. Elsewhere in the same form it asks for the turnover of all 
businesses: 
Please provide the total turnover of this and all businesses conducted in the name of the 
Proposer and again D entered £1,330,000. Turnover is not the same as income, which is defined in the policy as money paid or 
payable to the Insured for goods sold and delivered (less the net purchase price of such 
goods) and for services rendered in the course of the business at the premises. This is 
more akin to gross profit, rather than turnover. I dont think therefore that New India had any 
reason to know that D might not have been eligible for the cover for this pub. 
Mr J also says that this is all unclear and ambiguous for anyone without specialist insurance 
knowledge. It is correct that we consider how the policy documentation would be understood 
by a reasonable policyholder with all the background knowledge that would reasonably have 
been available to them would have thought when entering into this contract. D may not have 
understood this clearly, although it is a business with some experience of business 
insurance, rather than an individual layperson. However, D was also represented in this 
application for insurance by an independent insurance broker, it had employed to act on its 
behalf in obtaining insurance. It would be for the brokers to, at the very least, explain the 
cover being provided to ensure as far as possible that D was making an informed decision 
about whether to take the policy or not. 
Mr J says the contract is between D and New India and the broker should not be 
accountable for any shortcomings in the policy documentation. As stated above, I do not 
think the documentation here is so unclear that it cannot reasonably be relied on by New 
India. The policy cover was not adequate for Ds needs and this would not be New Indias 
responsibility in this case. D did have a broker acting for it and the regulations that apply to 
the sale of insurance policies do impose responsibility on brokers to explain the cover being 
offered and, in some circumstances, a responsibility to ensure it is appropriate for the 
customers needs. 
Mr J has also referred to wordings used by other insurers but I have to consider the 
circumstances of this complaint and whether New India has applied its policy terms fairly and 
reasonably. 
Having considered everything, I do not think the terms are so unclear such that New India 
should be required to disregard the policy limits. There was therefore an underinsurance and 
New India is entitled to take that into account when settling the claim. 
As this cover would not have been available at all if New India had known of the true sum 
insured required and because I dont think D gave the correct information about the sum 
insured when buying the policy, New India  is entitled to apply an average clause, which 
says:
Average
If on the happening of loss destruction or damage a Sum Insured under Sections 
1,3,7,8 or 10 is less than the value of the property covered including (for Sections 1 
and 7) the cost of removal of debris and (for Section 7) architects and surveyors 
fees the amount payable shall be proportionately reduced. 
Mr J says that the reference in this clause to the value of property creates ambiguity, as it 
is not clear that the word property should include loss of income. 
However, the clause specifically states that it applies to loss under Section 3 of the policy. 
Section 3 is the Loss of Income section under which this claim has been met. Given this, I 
do not think it is reasonable to interpret this clause as not applying to loss of income claims 
or that it is so unclear that it should not be applied to such claims.  
The average clause means that as D was insured for around 42% of the correct sum 
insured, New India is entitled to settle the same percentage of the claim amount. Having considered everything, I think its fair for New India to apply the average clause. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I have not assessed whether it has applied it correctly in terms of 
how it calculated the underinsurance.
Final Decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman