DRN-2347796
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc closed his current account. He also complains about IT 
outages in 2018.
What happened
Mr C had a personal current account with TSB. (He has also complained about some 
business accounts, but as they belonged to his company, they have been dealt with in a 
separate decision.)
Between April and September 2018, some of TSBs customers, including Mr C, were 
adversely affected by some problems resulting from a systems upgrade. TSB apologised for 
that, and sent Mr C a letter explaining that any missed direct debit payments were not his 
fault, which he could show to any third parties he needed to. TSB also refunded or waived all 
relevant charges, and paid £1,500 compensation to his company (TSB dealt with all of the 
accounts together as one complaint; it was not split into two complaints until Mr C 
complained to our service). Mr C objected to this, as TSB did not specify how much of that 
compensation was for his own personal inconvenience, arising from the disruption to his 
personal account, and how much was meant to be compensation to his company for the 
disruption to its business accounts.
Mr C complained to TSB, and subsequently to our service, that however the compensation 
was meant to be distributed, it was not enough. He also complained about some other 
issues, for which another £150 compensation was paid and more charges were refunded. In 
February 2019, TSB gave him two months notice that it was going to close all of the 
accounts. The reason it gave him at the time was that he had complained so much that TSB 
had decided that it could not meet his expectations, and that accordingly the relationship 
between the parties had broken down. But when Mr C complained about that decision and 
asked for the accounts to remain open, TSB sent him another letter in March, in which it 
stated that it was closing the accounts because Mr C had told it that he lacked the mental 
capacity to manage his finances properly, and had failed to obtain a power of attorney so 
that someone else could interact with TSB for him.
Our investigator assumed that although the compensation had been paid to Mr Cs 
company, it had really been meant for him personally. On that basis, he thought that the 
compensation which TSB had already paid was fair. He also said that TSB had been entitled 
to close the current account, since it had provided the proper notice, and its original reason 
had been reasonable. However, he upheld this complaint to the extent that he found fault 
with the reason TSB had subsequently given for closing the account, about Mr Cs mental 
capacity. He said that if that had genuinely been the reason, then TSB should have tried to 
support Mr C by encouraging him to obtain a power of attorney first, before resorting to 
closing his account. He did not think that the remedy for that error was to re-open the 
account, because the original closure reason still remained valid. But he thought that the 
March 2019 letter would have caused Mr C avoidable distress, and so he recommended that 
TSB should pay him £300 for that.
TSB did not agree with that recommendation. It said it had already paid Mr C enough 
compensation. It also doubted that he really lacked capacity, because Mr C was a member 
of a town council.
Mr C did not agree with that decision either. He said the compensation was not enough. He 
also pointed out that mental capacity can change from time to time, and also can affect 
some decisions and not others, so his membership of the town council was not probative 
evidence. He referred us to the Mental Capacity Act 2005.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the evidence from Mr Cs doctor setting out his diagnosis, which I know TSB has 
seen. I accept what the doctor says. Having regard to what the Mental Capacity Act says, in 
particular in section 2(1) and (2), I do not think that the evidence of Mr Cs membership of a 
town council necessarily means that he always has mental capacity where managing his 
finances is concerned, or that he was not a vulnerable customer, and so I disregard it.
I think the question of how much of the compensation TSB has already paid was meant to 
be (or should be, or should have been) apportioned to Mr C as an individual, and how much 
to his company, is a red herring. I dont think it is necessary for me to make any finding 
about that. At the time, TSB was treating all of the issues involving all of the accounts as one 
consolidated complaint, so I doubt that it gave any thought to apportioning the compensation 
between two legal persons. Mr C was the only individual in charge of his company, and so 
any inconvenience caused to his company was effectively his own inconvenience too. 
Consequently, I think that taking a global approach to compensation, and deciding how 
much to award in the round, is not an unreasonable or unfair approach to take here, 
notwithstanding that the complainants are technically different entities. To do otherwise 
would risk double counting. Having taken that approach, I think that TSB awarded fair 
compensation for the issues the compensation was paid for.
However, just because TSB has already paid significant compensation for the errors it 
admitted to does not buy it immunity for any new errors it may happen to have made later 
on. And I agree with our investigator that, while TSB was entitled to close the account for the 
reason it gave initially, its subsequent letter in which it added a new reason to do with Mr Cs 
mental capacity was a mistake. Given what Mr C and his doctor have told us about his 
condition and his circumstances, it is likely that this did cause him significant distress. I will 
therefore uphold this complaint for that reason.
Putting things right
I dont think that letter made any difference to TSBs decision to close the account, because 
TSB had already decided to do that for unrelated reasons, and so I dont think that the right 
remedy here would be to reinstate the account. It follows that I wont award compensation 
for Mr Cs reaction to losing the account, since that was not the result of any error by TSB. 
And if Mr C was not so vulnerable, I might have decided that the error was not serious 
enough to merit compensation at all. But in this case, I accept that Mr C was distressed, and 
I think that the investigators award is in line with what this service would typically propose 
for this sort of matter.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr C £300, in 
addition to the compensation and refunds it has already paid him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman