DRN-3875319
The complaint
Mr V complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly closed his account, lodged a fraud marker
against him and denied him access to his funds.
What happened
Mr V advertised his car for sale and entered into discussions with a potential buyer about it.
Dozens of messages were exchanged between them and eventually a price was agreed.
The buyer explained to Mr V that the funds were coming from different accounts and an
attempted payment to Mr V was stopped by the sending bank.
A second payment was made to Mr V which the buyer said was her sister which was
successful. Mr V handed over the car and a short while later, Metro received two reports
from different banks that their account holders had been victims of a scam. The reports
concerned the failed payment and the second successful payment from the buyers sister.
Mr V provided details of his chats with the buyer to Metro, but they didnt consider this
evidence. Metro believed that Mr V was involved in some form of scam.
Metro removed a portion of funds from Mr Vs account and returned them to the sending
bank. They then closed Mr Vs account and lodged a CIFAS marker against him. CIFAS are
a national fraud prevention organisation.
Mr V complained to Metro about their treatment and after looking into what had happened,
they didnt change their position. Mr V then brough this complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Mr Vs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that Metro had
acted reasonably when they closed Mr Vs account and returned the funds. The CIFAS
marker had been removed by Metro by this point so wasnt specifically mentioned.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his
complaint. Its now been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
In making this decision Ive taken into account Metros own terms and conditions, relevant
industry guidelines and good practice, regulations such as the Payment Service Regulations
2017 (PSRs), legislation such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); as well as what I
consider to be fair and reasonable.
CIFAS
Even though the CIFAS marker has been removed, the original lodgement of it and the
assessment made by Metro is relevant to the rest of Mr Vs complaint. So, Ill need to
consider Metros actions when they dealt with the situation as a whole.
Once Metro had received two fraud reports from different banks concerning Mr Vs account,
they decided to close it, return the remaining funds to one of the sending banks and lodge
the marker against Mr V. He denied being involved in this and produced various copies of
messages hed had with the buyer to support the case that he was also the victim of a wider
scam. Metro said to our service that they didnt consider those messages as evidence
because they couldnt be corroborated.
I found it difficult to understand why Metro wouldnt consider those messages in support of
Mr Vs situation. He was able to send dozens of examples of his conversations with the
buyer which set out the events. If Metro had looked at the evidence Mr V held, they may well
have come to a different opinion about what had happened.
Thats because the messages describe detailed discussions and arguments about the price,
what name the car was to be registered in, a warning from Mr V to the buyer to hold off
paying him the full amount before theyd seen it, and an admission from the buyer that the
account they were using wasnt their own one. Also, there were various messages after the
sale that reveal Mr V was also a likely victim here.
Mr V went on to find out details about the buyers and its apparent from his enquiries and
other peoples experience that the persons who arranged to buy his vehicle were
concerned with other similar schemes to defraud people.
Mr V provided details about his vehicle and evidence of changes to its ownership with a
government organisation. Metro later said that they didnt believe the vehicle existed, this
despite evidence of the changes of ownership from an official government site.
Metro were required to meet specific levels of evidence before they lodged a marker with
CIFAS. The two main requirements are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime
has been committed or attempted;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member
could confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police (but theres no
obligation to make that report).
Im satisfied that Metro had enough to satisfy the first condition based on the two fraud
reports theyd received. As regards the second condition, the evidence Metro considered
was only part of the story and whilst the receipt of two fraud reports was no doubt unusual,
the context of them doesnt seem to have been considered. The evidence supports Mr Vs
version of events, that he wasnt responsible for the scams on the two accounts that
produced the fraud reports and indeed was also a victim of a wider scam.
So, I dont think that Metro had enough to satisfy the second condition and it wasnt
reasonable for them to lodge a marker against Mr V. Metro eventually removed the marker
and CIFAs confirmed it was no longer recorded in mid-February 2022, so I dont need to
further consider the removal of it. I will consider any evidence provided by Mr V about the
impact of the marker lodged against him whilst it was in force. Metro have confirmed the
marker was lodged in December 2021 and removed in February 2022.
Account Closure
Metro closed Mr Vs account giving him seven days notice. In their terms they provide for
circumstances that allow them to close the account immediately or with two months notice.
Metro took the position that Mr V was involved with the receipt of fraudulent funds and from
that flowed the closure notice. Metros assessment of the situation wasnt made with thecomplete evidence available to them, which would have shown that Mr V was likely as much
a victim as the account holder that sent the funds to him.
So, I dont think their decision to immediately close the account was a fair one. Mr V may
well have received scammed funds, but the evidence indicates he wasnt aware of the
source of them at the time. He cant be held responsible for how a third party acted.
If Metro had considered the evidence Mr V possessed, they would have seen that Mr V
asked the buyer about the different name on the account and was given an explanation
about it being the buyers sister. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr V to accept that at
the time and it doesnt support Metros decision to close the account in the way they did.
Returned funds
Several weeks after receiving the payment for the vehicle, Metro removed £366.11 from Mr
Vs account and returned it to the sending account that had been scammed.
The payment received by Mr V was reported as the result of an Authorised Push Payments
(APP) scam. The APP Voluntary Best Practice Standards produced by UK Finance in
October 2017 sets out standards for sending and receiving banks to follow when processing
a claim for an APP scam. Although not all banks were party to this, I consider the guidance
to have been good industry practice at the time.
There are several relevant principles here:
The sending bank should notify their customer that because they authorised the
transaction, the right to the funds is with the recipient.
The receiving bank will need to investigate and establish (to the extent it is able)
whether the account is fraudulent and if funds remain.
The receiving bank will need to find evidence that the recipient has obtained the
funds fraudulently.
Following the receiving firms investigation, identified funds should always be
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm, subject to various
exceptions. One of these exceptions is where there is a credible complaint or dispute 
from the recipient of the funds.
Therefore, good industry practice at the time said the receiving bank should investigate
whether their consumer had received the funds fraudulently. If they havent, the receiving
bank is under no obligation to return the funds to the sending bank.
In this case, Mr V had a credible complaint. He played no part in the scam that had
defrauded the sender, so didnt receive the funds as a party to the fraud. It follows then that
Metro werent under an obligation to return the funds to the sending banks.
Ive also reviewed Metros terms and conditions. The term Metro have relied on says:
8.2
If we are made aware that a payment into your account may be fraudulent or a mistake, we
may take or recover this payment from you. This may happen even if: the funds are included in the balance of your account;
 you have used them to make a payment; or
 you have transferred or withdrawn all or part of the funds.
Under the CRA a term may be considered unfair if it causes a significant imbalance in the
parties rights and obligations under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer (Section
62(4)). The CRA also says that an unfair contract term will not be binding on a consumer
(Section 62(1)).
Based on the facts of Mr Vs complaint, Im persuaded that the above term creates a
significant imbalance in the rights and obligations under the contract, which was detrimental
to Mr V.
The term says Metro can seek to recover payments that may be fraudulent or a mistake 
which in essence says that Metro have no obligation to actually consider whether they think
their customer received a payment fraudulently or not. It doesnt create any obligation on
Metro to investigate or consider the context of the payment, or to notify Mr V if they intend to
remove the funds. And it also allows Metro to remove those funds, even if it creates a debt
for Mr V, which the bank can then apply charges on.
This is enough for me to conclude that the term is unfair  it allows Metro to create
obligations on Mr V that are significantly detrimental to him. On that basis I dont see that he
should be bound by this term.
In any case, I think Metros actions  although guided by a desire to help genuine victims of
fraud  lead to an unfair outcome for Mr V. He acted in good faith in accepting the funds for
the payment for his vehicle. Metro were under no obligation to return the funds to the
sending banks, and Im not satisfied they had the contractual right to use Mr Vs funds to do
so. In effect Metro have indemnified themselves using Mr Vs money, without any prior
agreement to do so, which I dont find to be fair or reasonable.
Account movements
Metro reported that they restricted the account once they received notice about the scams
which resulted in several direct debits being returned unpaid. Metro had a responsibility to
investigate the scam reports and initially restricting the account wasnt an unreasonable
action for them to take. But, because I think they failed to properly investigate the scam, their
actions created a situation that led to difficulties for Mr V, particularly with payments for
vehicle insurance. This no doubt caused Mr V stress and worry. He advised he was abroad
at the time he found out and was concerned about the risk to one of his vehicles.
Overall
I think that on balance, the current evidence shows that Metro failed to investigate the scam
reports leading them to misapply a CIFAS marker against Mr V. They then closed his
account without notice, based on this incomplete picture. I dont think that Metro acted fairly
when they removed funds from his account, when the evidence indicates he was also a
victim, rather Metros view that he was part of the scam.
Ill review any further evidence Mr V wishes to provide if he believes the marker and Metros
general conduct towards him caused him additional financial loss. Im currently intending to
uphold this complaint and make an award of £500 for the stress and inconvenience caused
by Metro. Also, to instruct them to repay the £366.11 they removed from his account andapply simple interest at 8% for the period the funds were taken from the account until theyre
repaid.
My provisional decision is that Im currently intending to uphold this complaint against Metro
Bank PLC as outlined above.
I invited Mr V and Metro to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr V didnt respond, and Metro accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add and Metro accepted my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Metro should now pay Mr V £500 for the stress and inconvenience they caused him plus 
refund £366.11 they removed from his account. This to include interest at 8% simple for the 
period the funds were removed from the account until the date theyre repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC and theyre 
instructed to settle it as Ive set out above. 
If Metro considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest payment, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should also give Mr V a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman