DRN-3412962
The complaint
Mr J complains that the amount of personal information Capital Home Loans Limited (CHL) 
has asked him to supply, since he returned to the UK from living overseas, is excessive. He 
says its requests are motivated by discrimination against him.
What happened
Mr J recently returned to live in the UK, after an extended period of living overseas. Hes told 
us that he owns a number of buy to let (BTL) properties in the UK, and these are 
mortgaged. He told one of his mortgage companies, CHL, that hed returned to the UK, and 
Mr J said this triggered unreasonably excessive requests for personal information. 
Mr J said that he had a number of BTL mortgages, and CHL was the only lender to request 
additional information from him. And each time he complied with these requests, CHL just 
asked for more. He thought that this was discrimination against him, based on his race and 
on the fact that he previously lived in a developing country.
Mr J also said CHL had offered to investigate his complaint of race discrimination, if he 
thought that was necessary. Hed told CHL he thought it was very necessary, but CHL hadnt 
carried out the investigation it had offered.
Mr J said that to provide further proof of discrimination, he would need to examine CHLs 
records to see how its due diligence procedures are applied to different individuals, based on 
race and where they live. Mr J said that CHL was unlikely to share this information with him.
CHL said that it last did due diligence checks on Mr J over fifteen years ago, and that 
information was clearly out of date. It also said that the country Mr J had just returned from 
was listed as a high risk jurisdiction under the relevant law covering money laundering. So it 
said that it needed further information from him, to allow it to carry out due diligence. 
CHL said Mr J hadnt supplied the information it had requested. He hadnt sent correctly 
certified identification or proof of residency. And he hadnt been willing to share the last six 
months of his bank statements, showing his salary and rental income. CHL said it had 
therefore restricted Mr Js mortgage account. The account was still operating, and Mr J could 
still make the contractual monthly payments, but he couldnt make overpayments for the 
moment. 
CHL said this wasnt discrimination based on race, it was a policy which applies to every 
customer who has a mortgage with CHL. CHL said this was also in line with current industry 
practice. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said regulations do require 
financial institutions to know their customers. Its up to individual firms to determine what 
depth of information they require. 
Our investigator didnt think CHL had done anything wrong in not accepting the information 
Mr J sent, as it wasnt in the format requested. And he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
CHL to ask further questions. Our investigator said a firm can ask about the purpose or 
nature of a business relationship, whether its for new or existing customers. And here, CHL 
hadnt requested that information for many years. 
Our investigator thought that anyone previously living in the same country as Mr J would 
have been subjected to similar Identity and address checks. He didnt think that what CHL 
had asked was discriminatory, and he said it was because Mr J hadnt sent what was 
requested that a restriction was applied.
Our investigator said each lender assesses its own approach to these issues, and we cant 
tell CHL not to do this because other lenders havent. He didnt think CHL had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said it seemed unreasonable that CHL could demand more and more 
personal information, just because of where hed been living. He told us that hed already 
sent a lot of detailed financial information, and he didnt want to send more, he felt that the 
requests were unreasonable and excessive. 
Mr J told us how long he had held these mortgages, to stress that he was a long-term CHL 
customer with relatively small monthly payments and mortgage loan balances. So he said he 
couldnt understand why CHL had asked for copies of his personal bank statements on top 
of the detailed financial information that he previously provided. He said he didnt object to 
the ID checks, and he would send the re-certified ID document that CHL requested in due 
course.
Mr J said CHL is required to be reasonable in its requests for further information, and he 
didnt think it had been. He didnt think this was to do with the number of rented properties he 
owned. He said landlords with a portfolio of properties, financed via BTL mortgages, were 
not unusual. 
Mr J said his main concern was the excessive and unreasonable amount of personal 
financial information that CHL asked for. Mr J believed that was discriminatory based on his 
race and the fact that he had lived in a developing country. 
Mr J wanted to know if our service had examined CHLs procedures and obtained evidence 
that it requested similar amounts of detailed personal financial information from other 
individuals who lived in countries that it classifies as high risk.
Mr J also said our investigator hadnt looked at the offer CHL made to do a full investigation 
of racial discrimination within its organization if he deemed it necessary. Mr J said that 
although he had told CHL that he thought this was very necessary, it hadnt said anything 
further about this. He wanted to know if our service had asked about any investigation into 
racial discrimination at CHL.
Mr J wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr J felt that CHL had discriminated against him on the grounds of his race, and on the 
grounds that hed lived in a developing country for some time. 
It's not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  that's a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So I need to take 
account here of the relevant law on discrimination, and also the relevant law which requires 
banks to hold a certain amount of relevant and up to date information about their customers. 
CHL has pointed us to the law on money laundering, and said that this requires it to obtain 
up to date information from Mr J. I think its more likely that this initial request from CHL was 
triggered by Mr Js notification to it that hed recently returned from living overseas, and 
CHLs resulting realisation that its existing information on Mr J needed to be updated. In my 
experience, it wouldnt be unusual for additional information, such as proof of address, to be 
requested in these circumstances. 
Mr J says that its CHL who has decided that the country he used to live in is high risk. But 
CHL says that wasnt its decision, its part of the relevant law. And it has shown us that it 
was under an enhanced obligation to assess risk, because of the country that Mr J had been 
living in previously. 
So I dont think that CHLs initial request for information was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr J said that he sent everything CHL asked for. But it doesnt appear to me that he did this. 
I dont think its unusual, if an initial set of documents requested by a bank arent supplied in 
full and in the requested format, for this request to be repeated, and widened somewhat. So 
I dont think it was either unfair or unreasonable for CHL, in response to this information, to 
ask Mr J to provide the requested proof of ID, and to provide further information including 
bank statements and his current business role. 
I know that Mr J didnt feel comfortable supplying this extra information. But because I think 
that the original requests that CHL made were reasonable, and Mr J hadnt then sent the 
requested information in the format CHL asked for, I dont think it was unreasonable for CHL 
to place a limited restriction on Mr Js account. 
I understand that Mr J feels very strongly that hes been treated differently on the grounds of 
his race, and because of where hes lived. I havent seen anything that makes me think that 
CHL has taken the decisions that Mr J complains about, just because of Mr Js race. 
I realise Mr J is concerned that CHL is treating other people differently to him, and that he 
would like me to obtain details of what CHL has asked other people in a comparable 
situation. But I think CHL has provided our service with an explanation for why Mr J was 
initially asked to update his personal information. And its my view that CHLs subsequent 
request for more detailed information is likely to be based on factors specific to Mr Js 
situation, including his initial response to CHLs request, which, as Ive explained, mean it 
wasnt unfair or unreasonable for CHL to make this request. So I dont think it would assist to 
request further information from CHL in the hope that direct comparators can be found.
Mr J also said that CHL had offered to carry out an investigation into race discrimination if he 
requested this. But he said that when he did request this, it didnt appear to have been done. What CHL said was this  
We take allegations of discrimination of any kind very seriously and we welcome you 
to address this further for full investigation should you deem it necessary.
I dont think that CHL was offering here to carry out an investigation into race discrimination 
if Mr J requested this. I think it was asking whether Mr J wanted to send further details of the 
allegations of discrimination it understood him to be making, so that it could then look into 
this further. 
Mr Js reply to this repeated his concern that CHLs due diligence procedures had been 
applied to him in an excessive and discriminatory manner. He didnt offer further detail of his 
concerns in this letter. But he did say he would be referring his complaint to our service. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for CHL to consider then that this matter would be best 
pursued through our service, and not to respond again directly to these concerns.
I know that Mr J will be disappointed by my decision, but I do think hes been treated fairly by 
CHL, and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman