DRN-2214511
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for £7,450 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of 
£296.05. At the time, the car was over six years old and had done 92,777 miles (according 
to the MOT of 3 July 2019; the agreement of the same date records 93,000 miles). 
Mr L said that, within a few days of taking possession of the car, he heard a knocking sound. 
He reported this to the dealer who supplied the car. The dealer inspected the car but wasnt 
able to find anything wrong. In December 2019 Mr L had a problem with the exhaust  he 
heard a snapping sound and, when he took it to an exhaust centre, they confirmed the 
exhaust had broken.
Mr L was unhappy with the quality of the car and wanted to return it. He complained to 
Moneybarn who said it was a wear and tear issue. Mr L didnt agree with this, so he brought 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr L hadnt provided anything to show there was a knocking sound 
when he took possession of the car, for example a report from a garage or engineer, or that 
this knocking sound continued after the dealership had inspected the car.
The investigator also said that Mr L had driven 5,000 miles before he experienced any 
problems with the exhaust. So he didnt think it was likely the exhaust problems were 
present when the car was supplied to Mr L, and he thought it was most likely this was down 
to normal wear and tear. So he didnt think Moneybarn had done anything wrong and didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said the garage knew there was a problem and 
kept it from me at purchase and days after when I returned the vehicle. He feels that 
Moneybarn are responsible for this, as the supplier of the car, and hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. But this doesnt apply where its 
established the goods confirmed to contract when they were supplied, for example where 
the fault is the result of wear and tear. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr L took 
possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
When Mr L took possession of the car in July 2019, it was just over six years old and had 
done 92,777 miles. Id expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And 
I think any reasonable person would expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the 
car over time.
Mr L reported a knocking noise to both Moneybarn and the dealer who supplied the car 
within a few days of him taking possession of the car. Hes said he took the car back to the 
dealership, and they couldnt identify any problems. While Ive not seen anything to show me 
this was the case, I dont doubt it happened.
But I havent seen anything to show me that the knocking was an ongoing problem. Mr L 
said the knocking continued until the exhaust broke. But he hasnt provided any reports from 
a garage or engineer to show there was a problem with the car that causing a knocking 
noise. And after the dealership had initially inspected the car, he didnt take it back to the 
dealership, or complain to Moneybarn, because the knocking noise was continuing.
And when Mr L complained to Moneybarn in December 2019, it was only about the exhaust. 
I havent seen that he raised the issue of knocking noises. And Ive not seen any other 
evidence to show me that the car has any underlying faults or issues that may be noticeable 
by a knocking noise. Based on this, its reasonable for me to conclude that there were no 
ongoing issues with Mr Ls car that caused a knocking noise. And the only issue is that of the 
exhaust.
An exhaust isnt a part that any reasonable person would expect to last the lifetime of the 
car. Exhausts need replacing over time and are considered to be a wear and tear item  
because of their positioning underneath the car, exhausts are prone to being damaged by 
loose items in the road, by potholes, by speedbumps and by kerbs; and theyre also prone to 
corrosion due to water and salt (from grit used in icy conditions) on the road.
Exhausts are a part thats inspected during an MOT test, and early problems with exhausts 
can be identified when emissions testing takes place during the MOT test. Ive looked at the 
MOT history and seen that one was done on 3 July 2019  the day Mr L took possession of 
the car. The car passed with no advisories. And if there was a problem with the exhaust at 
this point, Id either expect it to have been fixed so the car could pass the MOT, or for it to be 
identified as an advisory. Ive also noted that the MOT history for the car doesnt show any 
historic exhaust problems either.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied there werent any problems with the 
exhaust at this point.Its unfortunate for Mr L that the exhaust failed in December 2019. But all the evidence Ive 
seen suggests there were no problems present when Mr L took possession of the car. And, 
given the age of the car, the mileage itd already done when Mr L took possession of it, and 
the fact hed travelled a further 5,000 miles before the exhaust failed; Im satisfied the need 
to have to replace a worn-out wear and tear item such as an exhaust shouldve been 
reasonably expected.
Because of this, I dont agree that Moneybarn are responsible for the costs of repairing Mr 
Ls exhaust, nor do I think they should take the car back and unwind the finance agreement. 
Im satisfied that, considering all the relevant circumstances, Mr Ls car was of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman