DRN-2539277
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy because he says that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold an unemployment 
insurance policy to him. 
 
What happened
In 2011 Mr F had a meeting with HSBC about his income protection needs. He took out 
various income protection policies, including a policy which covered him in the event of 
unemployment. 
In October 2019 Mr F made a claim on the policy when he was made redundant. He says 
that the policy hasnt paid anything out. He complained to HSBC because he said that he 
was told the policy would cover him if he lost his job, and until he retired. HSBC said that the 
policy hadnt been mis-sold. Unhappy, Mr F complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint because 
he thought the evidence suggested that the benefits of the policy were explained to Mr F and 
that it was suitable for his demands and needs. Mr F didnt agree, he reiterated that in 2011 
hed asked specific questions about what the policy would cover and that his understanding 
of written English wasnt as good as it is now. He asked an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC gave Mr F advice about this policy. That means that the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that HSBC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was 
right for him. And, it needed to ensure that it gave Mr F enough information about the policy 
to ensure that he could make an informed choice about whether to take it out. 
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint because I dont think that the policy was mis-sold. I say 
that because: 
I appreciate that Mr F says that he was reassured that the policy would cover him 
until he got another job or until retirement. But a claim would always be subject to 
meeting the terms and conditions of the policy. Thats standard industry practice and 
is how all insurance policies work
Mr F says hes not been paid anything by the insurer at all. But the complaint Im 
looking into isnt about the claim Mr F made. So, Im not making a finding about 
whether it was reasonable for the insurer to decline the claim. Mr F would need to 
direct his complaint about the claim being declined to the underwriter of the policy
The advisor completed a detailed fact find with Mr F which included information about 
what financial commitments he would need to meet if he became unemployed. The 
advisor recommended a policy which would cover those commitments. So, I think 
the policy was right for Mr Fs circumstances at that time
The financial planning report, which was sent to Mr F after the meeting, explains that 
the cover would last for 12 months and sets out how much it would pay each month, 
in the event of a successful claim. So, I think its most likely that this was discussed 
during the meeting. Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions which 
confirms that to be correct as it explains that the maximum period the policy benefits 
will be paid for is 12 months. Mr F had the opportunity to ask further questions or to 
cancel during the cooling off period if he wasnt happy with that level of cover. I also 
note that when the policy renewed each year Mr F was sent information about the 
policy benefits
Taking all of the above into account I think its most likely that the advisor did make it 
sufficiently clear in the meeting and in the paperwork that the benefit would be 
payable for a maximum of 12 months 
 Mr F has mentioned that his understanding of English wasnt as good in 2011 as it is 
now. But the evidence suggests that he was able to discuss his finances in some 
detail and interact easily with the advisor. He was also offered a second meeting 
with the advisor, in line with the usual practice for HSBC at that time, but Mr F 
declined. So, I think he had the opportunity to check the information, or bring 
someone else with him to a second meeting, if he had concerns about signing 
paperwork he didnt understand. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman