DRN-3322819
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled a claim he made under a
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr N contacted his insurer, Zurich to make a claim for damage to a bedroom in
a property he rents out. Mr N said the damage was caused by damp from a neighbouring
property. Mr N was dealing with the third party to establish the cause and obtain their
agreement to carry out the repairs - in order for him to be able to claim for repairs to the
property he rents out.
Mr N said the damage occurred in May 2018. He had tenants living in the property until the
end of April 2020. In October 2020 Mr N told Zurich a neighbour advised him the third party
had carried out the repairs  but he was still seeking clarification and asked Zurich if it could
contact the third party as well. Zurich didnt respond on this point.
In January 2021 Mr N provided details about his claim. He didnt have confirmation from the
third party that they had carried out the repairs. Zurich didnt deal with the information. In
April 2021 Mr N chased for an update. Zurich instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to inspect the
property and proceed with the claim without confirmation of the completed repairs from next
door.
Mr N complained to Zurich about the handling of the claim. He said it had caused undue
delay. He said hed asked it to assist in contacting the third party to find out when the repairs
would be completed. Mr N thought Zurich should have contacted the third party to assist with
progressing his claim.
Mr N wanted Zurich to reimburse him for loss of rental income and associated losses.
Zurich accepted that it had poorly handled Mr Ns claim and caused some delay. It said it
could have been clearer in advising Mr N it wouldnt contact the third party on his behalf
under the claim. For the inconvenience caused it paid Mr N £150 compensation. But it said it
wouldnt reimburse him for loss of rental income. Zurich said the policy doesnt provide cover
for these losses unless the property was uninhabitable. The LA told Zurich the property was
habitable.
Mr N remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt find
anything to show the property was uninhabitable. One room was affected and although this
may have made the property less desirable to rent out, he didnt find this was something
Zurich was responsible for. The investigator didnt think Zurich was responsible for chasing
the third party. He thought this was for Mr N to do as the landlord and policyholder looking to
make a claim.
Although he agreed that Mr Ns policy didnt provide cover for loss of rental income in these
circumstances, he thought that Zurich should have been clearer in July 2020 and October
2020 with Mr N that it wasnt contacting the third party during the claim. He thought if Zurich
had properly dealt with the claim, it would have been resolved and repairs completed around
five months earlier.
While the investigator thought Zurich had no obligation to chase the third party, he thought
its failure to tell Mr N it wasnt doing this contributed to the delay. Mr N said he was able to
arrange repairs from Zurichs cash settlement in August 2021 and rent out the property in
September 2021. So the investigator recommended Zurich pay Mr N the equivalent sum of
five months rental income  subject to Mr N providing the most recent rental agreement. He
clarified that he understood the policy doesnt provide cover for loss of rental income  but
the investigator thought Zurich should pay this as its delay caused an indirect loss to Mr N.
This was in addition to the £150 compensation it already paid.
Zurich didnt agree it should pay anything more than it has. It said it had compensated Mr
N for the delay it caused from January 2021 to April 2021. It didnt agree it caused an
additional delay earlier on during the claim. It said Mr N was aware of the damage for two
years before he registered his claim. He was aware of the need to establish the cause of
damage and for the repairs by the third party to be completed before Zurich could consider
his claim.
Zurich said if it had told Mr N it wasnt going to contact the third party, it wouldnt have made
a difference to the outcome. Mr N told it he was regularly chasing the third party a year
before and during the life of the claim  but didnt receive confirmation when the repairs were
done. So Zurich says its failing here didnt cause any detriment to Mr N.
Zurich said it agreed to proceed with the claim in April 2021 without confirmation of repairs
by the third party to avoid further delays. Zurich said Mr N had a part to play in following up
with it between January and April 2021 when he hadnt received an update.
Mr N said Zurich as the insurer handling the claim should have managed it and resolved it
much sooner. He said it wasnt realistic for him to rent the property out with a room
damaged by damp and with the future disruption of repair works taking place.
Mr N believes Zurich should reimburse him for loss of rental income from May 2020 to
August 2021 and his associated losses including utility bills and service charges.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 January 2022. I didnt think the associated losses Mr N 
was claiming for sat with Zurich. But I thought Zurich should pay compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by some delay in dealing with the claim. I intended to ask Zurich to 
pay Mr N a total of £500 compensation, so £.350 in addition to the £150 already paid. 
Mr N didnt agree with my provisional decision. He says he has shown that Zurich always 
contacted the third party on claims such as this one. Mr N says his complaint has been 
understated and distorted. He says the information hes provided hasnt been properly 
reviewed. 
Zurich didnt reply to my provisional decision.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I wrote: 
In particular, Ive considered the following:Mr N says there is legislation which meant that he was at risk of being sued by a
tenant if the property he rented out wasnt safe. However, the property was rented
out up to and including the end of April 2020 with a known damp problem since May
2018.
The first time Zurich became aware of the issue was at the end of May 2020 when Mr
N contacted it. At this time Mr N said the third party had accepted it was responsible
for the damage and repairs. He said he would let Zurich know when the repairs had
been done so that his claim could succeed.
Mr N said that he had been chasing the third party responsible for the damage before
he contacted Zurich  and that he knew Zurich wouldnt be able to consider the claim
until the cause of the (damp) damage was established and repaired by the third
party.
Mr Ns policy with Zurich clearly says it provides cover for loss of rental income in a
limited number of circumstances the only possible one applying here being if the
property is uninhabitable. There isnt sufficient evidence to show that the property
was uninhabitable.
Neither party has been able to provide confirmation of the date when the third party
completed the repairs.
Theres no dispute that Zurich failed to deal with the claim promptly and proactively. And I
dont agree with Zurich that Mr N had a part to play in its delay dealing with his claim. It was
for Zurich to manage and progress the claim as his insurer when he provided information.
However, I dont think Zurich is responsible for Mr Ns losses from May 2020. He didnt
contact it until the end of May 2020  and before Mr Ns update in October 2020, it seems
the third party hadnt confirmed or carried out the required repairs in order for Zurich to
progress Mr Ns claim.
I agree with the investigators view that  had the claim been better managed  it would have
most likely been resolved within three to four months. And I understand Mr N strongly
believes that, had Zurich chased the third party too, its more likely that confirmation of when
the repairs were completed by them would have been received.
However, the issue with the third party was something outside of the control of Zurich. In
October 2020 Mr N told Zurich a neighbour advised him the third party had carried out the
repairs. But Mr N didnt have confirmation from the third party. I understand that there were
delays in the repairs being carried out as described by Mr N due to skeleton staff for the third
party working during the pandemic. There isnt anything to reasonably show that the
outcome would have been any different even if Zurich had agreed to chase the third party for
an update on the repairs.
So I think the earliest date Zurich might have been able to instruct a LA was October 2020.
And so I think a reasonable date for the claim to have been resolved in my view would have
been February 2021.
I also agree that Zurich is responsible for periods of delay in its handling of the claim  in
particular from January 2021 to April 2021 when Mr N provided details of his claim and it
wasnt followed up until he contacted it again three months later for an update.
As Zurich decided to proceed with the claim without confirmation the third party had
completed repairs, I think the fairest approach to take is to rely on the update Mr N gave inOctober 2020 confirming the same. Zurich failed to follow up or progress the claim between
October 2020 and December 2020  and again from January 2021 to April 2021. Although
there were further negotiations in relation to the scope of works and final cash settlement, I
dont think Zurich was responsible for further delays between April and August 2021.
Mr N has raised a separate complaint about the cash settlement and Zurichs decision to
settle on this basis. So I wont comment any further on this in my decision.
So the remaining issue for me to decide is whether what Zurich has done to put things right
is fair and reasonable. Having done so, I dont think it has.
The investigator recommended Zurich pay compensation equivalent to five months rent -
subject to Mr N providing the latest rental agreement. However, Ive kept in mind that the
policy clearly excludes cover for loss of rent unless  in this case  the property is
uninhabitable. And given that the property was habitable for two years with a known damp
problem, and was habitable as the damage was limited to one room after the existing
tenants left; I dont think an appropriate compensation award is to cover the equivalent of
loss of rent for the period of delay. As the investigator explained, the property may have
been less desirable to tenants but that isnt the same as being uninhabitable. So I dont think
Mr Ns claim for associated losses sits with Zurich. He may wish to seek further advice as to
the possibility of seeking recovery of his losses from the third party.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Zurich to pay compensation for the
inconvenience caused by its delay. I dont think £150 is enough given the period of delay, so
I intend to increase the compensation award to £500. I think this is a fair reflection of the
inconvenience caused to Mr N by Zurichs delay.
In response, Mr N provided a further copy of an email from Zurich dated 25 November 2021 
to him. This reads that Zurich contacted the third party and checked its notes to see if it had 
confirmation of when the leak was repaired  but it appeared not to have received this. 
I can only consider the evidence provided in relation to this complaint. And having done so, 
my view remains that Zurichs error was failing to be clear to Mr N that it wouldnt chase the 
third party  and even if it had, the outcome would have been the same. I dont think the 
claim would have settled sooner even if Zurich had agreed to contact the third party. The 
email copy provided by Mr N confirms that Zurich proceeded with the claim without 
confirmation from the third party. It doesnt show me that Zurich always contacts the third 
party. 
Emails from Mr N to Zurich dated 11 July 2020, 29 August 2020 and 4 October 2020 
provided updates of the difficulties he had in receiving a reply from the third party in relation 
to repairing the leak. Mr Ns comments at the end of the emails are along similar lines  in 
that he asks as an alternative if Zurich could contact the third party. I dont think these emails 
show that Mr N had an expectation that Zurich were in contact with the third party for this 
claim. 
Mr N says he could not rent the flat out where one of the rooms couldnt be used. And in the 
highly unlikely event that he could rent the property out, it would have been at a reduced 
rate. He says he provided an email from the previous tent explaining why they moved out  
due to the issue with damp. 
I can assure Mr N that I read the documents he provided as part of my original assessment. 
However, my view remains that Zurich isnt responsible for any associated losses Mr N is 
claiming for. Mr N was aware of a damp problem within the property while tenants were living there for two years  and while he was aware of the claims process and chasing the 
third party in order to progress his claim for repairs. 
So Im upholding his complaint in part and my recommendations are as set out below  in 
line with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to 
increase the compensation it pays Mr N from £150 to £500 for the inconvenience its delay 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman