DRN-2359049
The complaint
Miss N complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited havent met a claim 
under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss Ns pet was spayed. After the surgery, there were additional issues 
which required further surgery, and which Miss N submitted a claim for in May 2020. It was 
mentioned on the claim form this was due to an abdominal mass.
But Red Sands said the claim was excluded under the terms of the policy and quoted the 
relevant terms. Miss N didnt agree with this and asked the treating vet to get in touch to 
explain why they thought the claim should be met. They did, but as Red Sands still wouldnt 
meet the claim, she complained.
Red Sands replied to the complaint and said the condition was ultimately diagnosed as 
stump pyometra which is a bacterial infection as a result of Miss Ns pet being spayed. Red 
Sands added if the Miss Ns pet hadnt been spayed, or if the spay had been completed at 
the time, then this condition now being claimed for wouldnt have happened. Because of this, 
Red Sands said Miss Ns pets follow up issues happened because of her pet being spayed. 
Red Sands quoted the significant exclusions from the policy terms  which said costs for 
spaying wouldnt be covered. And they quoted the relevant section of the vets fees part of 
the policy - which in effect said they wouldnt meet any costs for vets fees due to spaying 
and any conditions as a result of that procedure. Red Sands said theyd taken into account 
what Miss Ns vet had said  which was the diagnosis of the issues was due to stump 
pyometra. And, as the condition now claimed for happened because of Miss Ns pet 
previously being spayed  they wouldnt meet it.
The vet who performed the surgery in February 2020 got in touch with Red Sands. They 
explained they had many years experience of neutering pets and have never seen the 
issues they encountered with Miss Ns pet. They explained they removed ovaries and 
uterine horns completely. So, in their opinion, the issues Miss Ns pet was now having in 
May 2020 werent linked to the previous surgery.
Red Sands asked their consultant vet to offer an opinion. Their vet said the medical 
diagnosis provided shows the resulting issues to be an infection around the sites of the 
operation  and the reaction is because of the operation. So, they said all of the issues were 
a complication of spay, and it was right for the claim to be turned down.
Unhappy with this, Miss N asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so. He 
considered the comments from all three vets. But what he found was the treating vet had 
confirmed the diagnosis was stump pyometra  and, consistent with what Red Sands vet 
had said, it appeared this was due to spaying having happened. He explained the terms of 
the policy dont cover this  so he couldnt ask Red Sands to meet the claim. 
Miss N didnt accept this. She said our investigators outcome was really disappointing 
because shes got two vets saying the claim should be met. 
The treating vet, for the condition now claimed for, got in touch. For completeness, Ive 
quoted what they said:
It is true that you cannot have a cervical/uterine stump unless the dog has had 
hysterectomy: the "stump" is the bit you leave behind in any hysterectomy. So yes, the 
stump pyometra cannot have occurred if the dog had not undergone hysterectomy. 
However, I would argue that the dog had pyometra, a condition less likely to occur after 
ovariohysterectomy, ovariohysterectomy being highly protective for the development of 
pyometra. It is not infallible however, and I can only assume that there was some other 
hormonal influence which led to the cystic hyperplasia and, ultimately infection (pyometra) 
that Miss Ns pet developed. It is more common for dogs with incomplete ovariectomy to 
develop stump pyometra because of the ongoing production of ovarian hormones, however, 
this was excluded in Miss Ns pet because of the completeness of her ovariectomy, 
confirmed histologically.
In terms of untangling pathological diagnoses, there are typically three factors: degree of
severity, place, pathology. For example: moderate left pneumonia. The disease process is
pneumonia irrespective of the degree or location. Equally, mild stump pyometra is still
pyometra, irrespective as to the place in the uterus. I therefore argue that in a dog that had
undergone a procedure (complete ovariectomy), which is known to decrease the likelihood 
of development of pyometra, the spay surgery was protective (albeit failed protection) rather
than causative.
Our investigator felt the vet had still confirmed the condition as stump pyometra  which 
couldnt have happened without Miss Ns pet being spayed  which is excluded under the 
policy terms. He explained this is an insurance issue, not a medical one, and the vet has 
confirmed the condition couldnt have happened if the procedure hadnt been done. 
Unhappy with this Miss N asked for matters to be reviewed, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I can only require Red Sands to meet the claim if Im satisfied, 
based on all the evidence I have, the policy terms dont exclude it. And, while I understand 
Miss N will be disappointed, Im satisfied the policy terms do exclude it. Ill explain why.
The relevant policy terms in effect say they wont meet a claim if there are costs as a result 
of Miss Ns pet being spayed. It doesnt appear to be in dispute Miss Ns pet was spayed. 
What is in dispute is whether the condition which Miss N is claiming for in May 2020 is as a 
result of the spay itself.
Ive thought carefully about Miss Ns treating vets comments. Its clear they dont feel the 
conditions now claimed for have happened because of the spay. But, they also confirm the 
original diagnosis is correct, and as our investigator has pointed out  that the condition 
couldnt have happened if the spay hadnt happened.
This is consistent with what Red Sands vet has said as well  and Ive looked at the medical 
diagnosis for the procedure claimed for. The treating vet sent off tissue samples to get a 
complete diagnosis. The diagnosis says the issues Miss Ns pet is experiencing are 
consistent with stump pyometra. That condition has been confirmed by the vets to be a condition that can only happen because of a spay. And, a spay or issues resulting from a 
spay, are excluded under the policy terms.
Miss N has told us this situation is affecting her health, and Im genuinely sorry to hear that. 
But I cant require Red Sands to meet the claim if its not covered under the policy terms. 
And, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied its not.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman