DRN-3453224
The complaint
Ms complaint is about the refusal of a claim under its Management Liability Insurance policy 
with certain underwriters at Society of Lloyd's trading as Lloyd's of London.
What happened
M is a limited company based overseas and took out the policy to cover various 
eventualities, including professional costs incurred in dealing with a tax audit. 
The relevant tax office contacted M in January 2021 to ask for evidence of payment relating 
to superannuation guarantee payments for some individual employees. These are 
essentially pension contributions M is obliged to make on behalf of employees. The letter 
said that the evidence needed to be submitted by a date in February 2021 and if there was 
no response, or M did not provide what is needed, it would start an audit.  
M says the payments had been made on time but decided to carry out its own audit in order 
to minimise any liabilities. It then made a claim under the policy with the underwriters for the 
costs of the audit of around £30,000.
The underwriters refused the claim, as they said the policy covers the costs of a tax audit 
following receipt of a formal notice but in this case, there was no tax audit notice and no tax 
audit. The tax office had asked for evidence of compliance with Ms superannuation 
obligations, and any audit related to these obligations, not any specific tax return or the 
liability to pay superannuation payments tax. It says the request for information from the tax 
office was not therefore an insured event under the policy. 
In addition, the underwriters said that the policy excludes claims arising out of or in any way
connected with the failure of the company to pay into, or collect contributions for, a fund as 
required by law. So the claim would also be excluded under this term. 
M complained and has made a number of submissions, via a representative, which Ive 
summarised below:
 It responded to what essentially was an audit notice by the tax office. 
 It took action to prevent the audit taking place and to mitigate its losses. If it had not 
done so, it would have been in breach of the policy terms requiring it to do so. 
 All the correspondence from the tax office used the term audit, it had also asked for 
information about various employees and a response was mandatory, so it 
considered this a formal notification.
 It has received notices about other issues from the tax office that tend to be less 
formal than this one. 
 It later received a letter from the tax office in June 2021, saying the audit had been 
completed. 
 The superannuation guarantee provisions would be included in the reference to 
superannuation payments tax, which is part of the policy definition of a tax audit 
notice. 
 The policy is ambiguous and restrictive in that it doesnt allow reimbursement for 
mitigating losses. 
 It paid for cover for audits and it incurred tax audit costs, which are payable under 
the policy.
 Other insurers have met claims based on the same notice and another insurer.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he considered that the underwriters had not acted unreasonably in refusing the 
claim. 
M does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for various events, including:
Tax audit costs resulting from tax audit notice served on the insured, and reported to
us, during the period of insurance
The policy defines tax audit costs As the costs of an accountant or tax agent for work 
undertaken in response to a tax audit notice and it defines a tax audit notice as being:
a formal notice or process from the  Taxation Office relating to a specific return filed by 
the insured as to its liability to pay income tax, fringe benefits tax, capital gains tax, A New 
Tax System (Goods and services) Tax, superannuation payments tax, termination payments 
tax or sales tax (including amount of any such tax).
In my opinion, this is reasonably clear and unambiguous. The policy will provide cover for 
the costs relating to a tax audit.
The relevant tax office wrote to M in January 2021 stating that it didnt think it had paid its 
superannuation guarantee obligations. The letter said that if M could provide evidence the 
amounts had been paid it would not take any further action but if you   havent paid 
correctly and dont lodge  statements, we will start our audit[or] dont respond by 19 
February 2021, we will start our audit.
M says it took this letter as being a formal notice because it required its response by a 
certain date and referred to the prospect of an audit. There was obviously an obligation on M 
to respond to the letter and there was a threat of an audit if it didnt comply. However, it 
seems clear to me this was not a tax audit relating to a specific return filed by M as to its 
liability to pay various taxes, but related instead to the contributions it needed to make for 
each employer to the superannuation scheme. And the letter of June 2021 states the audit 
was in relation to the superannuation guarantee obligations. 
Ms representative has said it considers that the superannuation guarantee would be 
included in the reference to superannuation payments tax within the policy definition of a tax 
audit notice. I do not agree that this is a reasonable interpretation. The superannuation 
guarantee is not a tax. In any event, the notice was still not relating to a specific return filed 
by M. The policy also excludes any claims arising out of or connected with a failure to make 
payments to a fund, as required by law. I consider this exclusion would apply to any audit 
arising from a failure to make superannuation guarantee payments. 
M has also suggested that the claim would have been met, if it had not taken the action it did 
to mitigate its position. However, the claim does not fall within the cover for the reasons set 
out above and the action it took in response to the tax offices correspondence, didnt 
change the position.  
Ms representative has also provided an email from another insurer stating it would cover the 
cost of a superannuation review and also says that it has been involved with other claims 
where insurers have accepted this type of notice as notice of an audit and provided cover.. 
That might well be the case. However, the policy terms of the policy held by M with the 
underwriters does not cover this claim, as it did not relate to a tax audit and I am not 
persuaded that it would be reasonable to require it to disregard its terms and cover the 
claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman