DRN-2978333
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Aviva Insurance Limiteds compensation offer as part of a 
settlement on their home insurance claim is too low.
Both Mr and Mrs S are named policyholders on their Aviva policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs S, Ill refer mainly to Mrs S from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an Aviva home insurance policy. In March 2018, a burst pipe caused 
significant water damage to their home. Aviva settled the claim and the damage was fixed by 
Avivas contractors (referred to in my decision as M). These repairs were completed in or 
around November 2018.
In May 2019, Mrs S complained to Aviva that there were serious problems with the newly 
installed flooring in their home. Aviva referred Mrs S to M. M didnt reply to Mrs Ss emails.
During this time, Mrs S had a separate complaint with this service about her original 
insurance claim. She told us about the problems with the flooring. We told her she should 
refer this to Aviva.
In December 2019, Mrs S contacted Aviva about the problems with the flooring. In February 
2020, Aviva instructed M to inspect the flooring in Mrs Ss home. Based on Ms report, Aviva 
rejected Mrs Ss claim. It told her M had found no fault with the flooring and there was 
sufficient timber around the edge of each room to provided [sic] adequate support for the 
new boards to sit on. It suggested Mrs S get an independent opinion.
Mrs S instructed an independent expert to inspect her flooring. Unfortunately this visit had to 
be postponed when the UK went into its first coronavirus lockdown. 
Aviva eventually arranged for a surveyor to inspect Mrs Ss flooring in July 2020. The 
surveyor concluded: the defects noted to the new floorboards and internal doors relate to 
poor workmanship during refurbishment works. 
Mrs S didnt understand why Aviva wouldnt accept the surveyors findings so arranged for 
her own expert (referred to in my decision as RS) to inspect the floor. RS visited Mrs S in 
September 2020. His report concluded:
The excessive movement [of the floorboards] is due to the inadequate installation of 
the noggins where the existing floorboard decking and the replacement floorboard 
decking have been joined together and the movement of the underlying floor joists. In 
some instances the floorboard decking joints have no underlying support.
it is evident that that the building work provided is not to the standard that you 
should expect from a competent builder.
In November 2020, Aviva agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim. It offered them a cash 
settlement to cover the necessary repairs and other costs while the work was carried out 
(new carpets and fitting, accommodation, storage). It also offered Mr and Mrs S £750 to 
apologise for the inconvenience and upset theyd suffered.
Mr and Mrs S accepted the settlement offer. However, they didnt think £750 compensation 
adequately reflected the pain and suffering theyd been through while Aviva investigated 
their claim. They complained to this service.
Our investigator agreed that Ms inadequate repairs caused Mr and Mrs S additional 
distress, forced them to engage surveyors and contractors to inspect and repair the ongoing 
faults, and forced them to move out of their home to allow this remedial work to be done. He 
also recognised that Mrs S spent significant time chasing both Aviva and M for updates. 
However, he thought Avivas offer of £750 to apologise for this was fair.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make three points before turning to Mrs Ss complaint.
First, Mr and Mrs S had a separate complaint with this service about their original insurance 
claim. Im not going to revisit that here, but it means Im only going to look at Avivas actions 
after Mrs S contacted it in December 2019.
Second, Mr and Mrs S accepted Avivas cash settlement for their claim about the additional 
repairs needed to their flooring. So the only thing for me to decide is whether Avivas 
additional offer of £750 compensation to reflect the inconvenience and upset it caused Mr 
and Mrs S is fair.
Third, our investigator told Mrs S this service couldnt consider all aspects of her complaint 
because some of it relates to Avivas complaint handling, therefore outside this services 
remit. While its true we cant look at complaints about a firms complaint handling, that isnt 
the issue here. Mrs S isnt complaining about Avivas handling of a complaint; shes 
complaining about repairs done following a claim under her home insurance. So I can look at 
everything after Mrs S contacted Aviva in December 2019 until settlement in November 
2020. 
Having done so, I think Aviva failed Mr and Mrs S in several areas:
Mrs S first contacted Aviva about her flooring in December 2019; Aviva didnt accept 
her claim until November 2020. Mr and Mrs S had to live with unstable flooring in 
their home for 11 months after they first contacted Aviva. 
The first inspection arranged by Aviva in February 2020 was carried out by M  the 
contractor responsible for the repairs Mrs S was complaining about. Given the 
circumstances of this claim, I dont think that was reasonable.
Given the evidence, I think Ms accusation that Mr and Mrs S prevented him from 
carrying out a full inspection was untrue. I also think Ms account of what Mr and Mrs 
S told him during his inspection was untrue. I think Aviva might reasonably have 
queried both statements  or offered Mrs S the chance to comment on them  before 
relying on them to reject her claim.Aviva didnt arrange for an independent inspection until July 2020. I recognise that 
this was partly due to the coronavirus pandemic, but I think this delay would have 
been avoided if Aviva had appointed an appropriate expert when Mrs S first raised 
the matter in December 2019.
Following the July 2020 inspection, the surveyor concluded: the defects noted to 
the new floorboards and internal doors relate to poor workmanship during 
refurbishment works. However, Aviva didnt agree to settle the claim at this stage.
Mrs S cancelled her own independent inspection in July 2020 when Aviva instructed 
its surveyor. This caused a further delay once it became apparent Aviva wasnt going 
to rely on the surveyors report. Its not clear to me why it refused to do so.
RSs report in September 2020 clearly says Ms initial repairs were substandard. It 
was another two months before Aviva agreed to settle the claim.
Mrs S said the delays in having the original damage fixed, delays arranging an independent 
inspection of the repair work, and Avivas continued rejection of their claim despite the 
evidence shed provided caused her and her husband serious distress. 
Aviva acknowledged this and offered Mr and Mrs S £750. 
Mr and Mrs S dont believe this reflects the stress and anxiety theyve suffered, as well as 
the ongoing upheaval of finding temporary accommodation while the new repair work is 
done, and their ongoing concerns about how long these repairs might take.
I understand this. I also recognise that this must have been a truly horrific time for them. 
However, I agree with our investigator that Avivas offer is fair and in line with what this 
service would award.
For these reasons, I think Mrs Ss complaint should be partly upheld. This is because I agree 
Aviva should compensate Mr and Mrs S for the failings Ive set out, but I think its offer is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs S £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman