DRN-4335911
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the private medical insurance policy he has through his 
employer with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
What happened
Mr A is a member of the scheme, as is his young son. Specifically, his complaint is that AXA 
only allows one parent access to its Doctor Care Anywhere/Doctor at Hand service. As he 
co-parents his son with his former wife, Ms K, he feels that they should both have access to 
the app in case of a medical emergency. 
Our investigator didnt find that AXA had done anything wrong. Mr A appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the file and Mr As response to the investigation outcome. 
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate that Mr A feels the existing policy fails to address the diverse needs of 
contemporary families, and that a disproportionate burden is placed on one parent. 
The issue here though is that Ms K is not a policy member. The terms of the policy 
say you must agree to Doctor at Hands terms when registering and this states adult 
main policy holders can use the Platform to book appointments for and discuss 
healthcare concerns.. This precludes Ms K, but I dont find that is unreasonable. 
Only one parent can have access to the app, and to have access they must be a 
policy member.
This service cant instruct insurers how to operate. Our function is to resolve 
disputes, not to regulate. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. AXAs 
partner service recognises the issue its platform may pose for those co-parenting. Mr 
A has highlighted the impact in respect of his family. But AXA has confirmed that Ms 
K can contact it directly on behalf of their son and can access the 24-hour medical 
advice line. I find that is fair. I dont find that AXA has failed to provide fair and 
reasonable treatment to families with varied family set-ups. The policy terms are 
clear and dont extend to Ms K who is not a member.
I understand that Mr A has private medical health insurance for a reason but for 
completeness I would add that his policy doesnt provide cover for every situation. It 
doesnt, for example, provide emergency cover It is designed to complement the 
National Health Service, not replace it. 
I recognise that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont find that AXA 
has treated Mr A unfairly or contrary to his policy terms. It follows that I dont require 
AXA to take any action or to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman