DRN-3617605
The complaint
Mrs M complains G.R. Finance Limited provided her with loans that she couldnt afford to
repay because at the time she had loans with other high cost credit providers.
What happened
Mrs M has complained about 16 home collected loans advanced between June 2015 and
January 2017. A summary of Mrs Ms borrowing, based on the information provided to us
from G.R. Finance, can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateweekly 
repayment
1 £500.00 20/06/2015 28/11/2015 £25.00
2 £500.00 17/10/2015 27/02/2016 £25.00
3 £400.00 28/11/2015 23/04/2016 £20.00
4 £500.00 28/11/2015 23/04/2016 £25.00
5 £400.00 19/12/2015 28/05/2016 £20.00
6 £500.00 27/02/2016 23/07/2016 £25.00
7 £400.00 23/04/2016 10/09/2016 £20.00
8 £500.00 23/04/2016 10/09/2016 £25.00
9 £400.00 28/05/2016 19/11/2016 £20.00
10 £500.00 23/07/2016 10/12/2016 £25.00
11 £500.00 10/09/2016 31/12/2016 £25.00
12 £400.00 10/09/2016 28/01/2017 £20.00
13 £400.00 19/11/2016 written off £20.00
14 £500.00 10/12/2016 written off £25.00
15 £500.00 31/12/2016 written off £25.00
16 £500.00 28/01/2017 written off £25.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per loan per week. Where loans overlapped the
cost per week would have been greater, so for example, Mrs M was due to repay G.R.
Finance £50 per week when loans one and two were running concurrently.
Mrs M has had some problems repaying her final four loans and these loans were written off
by G.R Finance.
After Mrs M complained to G.R. Finance it issued its final response letter (FRL) in February
2021. I dont have a copy of that letter, but as part of the response to the complaint
G.R. Finance agreed to write off the balance of the final four loans. This write off appears to
have been confirmed in March 2021.
At the end of February 2021 G.R. Finance wrote to Mrs M and provided a copy of her
account statements. At which point, she went back as she was unhappy with the redress
that G.R. Finance offered.
Another, letter was issued to Mrs M in April 2021, it explained that the matter (the subject of
her complaint) was now closed.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in
May 2021.
After the complaint was referred here, G.R. Finance initially said that it didnt think we could
consider the complaint as Mrs M had agreed with the redress that it had offered  to write
the loans off. However, later, it then agreed to provide the Financial Ombudsman with a file
and the case moved forward to be assessed.
When G.R. Finance supplied its file to the Financial Ombudsman Service it made several
points. I have read what G.R. Finance says in full, but Ive summarised them here:
Mrs M wasnt in arrears when the loans were issued.
Mrs M sought and requested further borrowing.
The loans provided Mrs M with the flexibility she needed and this is why the loans
were split to give her more refinance options. This was no benefit to G.R. Finance as
it says this increased its costs.
Mrs Ms income and expenditure was checked which means G.R Finance was able
to check whether the loans were affordable and sustainable for Mrs M.
G.R. Finance has provided evidence to show these loans were not for day-to-day
costs but were for one off events like Christmas.
It wouldve been unfair to not have issued loans to Mrs M given her perfect
repayment record.
Had loans not been issued Mrs M may have approached unregulated lenders for
loans.
There is no reference in the rules or regulations that apply to home credit that deals
with pattern of lending.
G. R. Finance has been told by the industry regulator that there is no limit on the
number of loans that can be granted for one applicant.
Mrs M was treated with forbearance  it didnt pursue her for the debt and instead
wrote off the balance.
The rules and guidance laid down by the industry regulator have been followed.
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Ms irresponsible lending complaint and she thought the
complaint should be upheld in part.
The adjudicator explained that she didnt think that G.R. Finance had treated Mrs M unfairly
when it approved loans 1  4. But she thought it shouldnt have provided loans 5  12. The
adjudicator also noted that she wouldnt consider loans 13  16 because redress had
already been paid in relation to these loans.
She thought that when loan 5 was granted Mrs M had too many loans outstanding, had
taken the loans in quick succession and her weekly commitment had increased significantly.
So, in the adjudicators view G.R. Finance wasnt able to determine whether the loans were
being paid sustainably.
She then went on to explain that G.R. Finance had an obligation to make sure the lending
wasnt unsustainable or harmful for Mrs M. Thinking about that, and looking at the overall
lending pattern the adjudicator was now satisfied that the lending was harmful for Mrs M by
the time loan 6 was advanced. So, this loan and all loans that she considered (up to loan 12)
should be upheld.The adjudicator concluded that it was clear these loans were harmful to Mrs M because she
went on to have quite significant repayment problems with her final four loans.
Mrs M appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
However, G.R. Finance didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Ive read, in full, the
comments G.R. Finance has provided, and Ive provided a summary of them below:
there was no evidence of repayment problems leading up to loan five being
advanced.
Mrs M wasnt borrowing from other sources to meet her weekly repayments.
The regulator says there is no limit on the number of loans which can be provided 
as long as they are affordable and sustainable. Which the checks for loans 5  11
showed they were.
The adjudicator hasnt understood the concept of Home Credit.
When loan six was approved, G.R. Finance considered whether Mrs M could afford
the repayment over the lifetime of the agreement  30 weeks.
Loans were issued on the same day, with different repayment terms at the request of
Mrs M.
G.R. Finance agreed that Mrs Ms borrowing didnt decrease  once it reached her
required borrowing level the borrowing remained at a consistent level.
the adjudicator has made a big leap with no supporting evidence for her conclusions 
that the loans were lent unsustainably.
The checks carried out showed that each loan was both affordable and sustainable.
G.R. Finance then provided some examples, of what it says is Mrs M providing
information which may not be correct, for example, Mrs M says she borrowed from it
for many years, when in fact she took loans over an 18 month period.
G.R. Finance says the Financial Ombudsman Service is retrospectively assessing
this case using a different interpretation of the rules than wouldve been used say
had a complaint been made in 2015.
The industry guidance and rules were followed in this case.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me and I then proceeded to 
issue a provisional decision. 
The provisional decision explained why, Mrs Ms complaint should still be upheld but based 
on the evidence that I had I wasnt intending to uphold as many loans as the adjudicator. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and a smaller font and form part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help, and for clarity for all parties concerned, that I outline the legal and regulatory
environment when the lending was approved. So below Ive outlined what I consider to be
the key regulatory requirements on the part of G.R. Finance before providing the lending.
The legal and regulatory framework and other publications
From 1 April 2014, G.R. Finance was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
In the FCAs guidance there are references made to the Office of Fair Trading guidance
which is called the Irresponsible lending Guidance (ILG). What this shows, in effect, is acontinuity of regulation and continuity of requirements for what G.R. Finance needed to do
before each loan was approved.
In November 2018 the FCA rules were reworded but as lending had stopped by this point, I dont 
consider it necessary to include the new wording in this decision.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
G.R. Finance gave Mrs M all the above loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit
Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
Firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
And the most relevant overarching principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit
providers, such as G.R. Finance. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to
responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered
into a regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules in this case is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets
out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. These
rules were subsequently updated into CONC 5.2A but this didnt occur until November 2018,
which is after the date when these loans were provided. So the wording of the rules
applicable to the lending for Mrs M is:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of 
which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2.3 then details and outlines some of the factors that may be relevant to a lender
when deciding what a proportionate check may look like for each loan application.
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have 
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands
the customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity 
limitation (see CONC 2.10).CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial
situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability
to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer
CONC 5.3.1G(6) also provides guidance, that beyond the loan being pounds and pence
affordable the loan also has to be sustainable.
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which G.R. Finance is part of. This letter
was published after Mrs Ms agreements were entered into. This letter didnt include any new
rules but deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about whether their previous
lending was unaffordable. I do think that this offers some insight on the FCAs approach on
its rules and guidance. So, I consider it to be of relevance in this case.The letter sets out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to
consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its
view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we
analysed their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of
information and data, including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of
complaints, and findings from the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on
guarantor lenders, which involved issuing a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across
the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may
not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in
the portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can
better understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and
firms. This work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing
journeys, firms marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of
relending for consumers. We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may
cause consumers. As part of this work, we will proactively engage with home-collected credit 
firms to ensure they understand our expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their 
processes as a result of the new rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our 
December 2018 Policy Statement on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in
assessing affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit
customers finances are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and
low financial resilience. Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with
all our affordability requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the
Dear CEO letter we sent to HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was
aimed at HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about
many of the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are handling
complaints appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including
analysing the root causes of complaints and taking into account the Financial
Ombudsman Services relevant decisions. We gave further detail about what we
expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued
to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
I accept that this letter, refers to high cost short term lenders, which G.R. Finance isnt one.
But I think it is useful to see how the FCA looked at some of the issues. Turning to the Dear
CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which was mentioned in the
Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter.
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of
determinations of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach
to the issues raised in those complaints (see: https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take these
examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their own effective
procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were
flagged in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we
were concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on
HCSTC that is harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability
assessments were key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they
are making responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
The above, are the rules and guidance that Im considering when thinking about whether
G.R. Finance did anything wrong when it lent to Mrs M. To be clear, I am not retrospectively
applying the rules, I am applying the rules that were relevant to G.R. Finance at the time it
lent to Mrs M.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether G.R. Finance did anything wrong
when it provided Mrs M with her loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind everything that Ive set out above and our long-established approach to
considering these types of complaints (which is also set out on our website), I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did G.R. Finance, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would
those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point
where G.R. Finance ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Did G.R. Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that G.R. Finance did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did G.R. Finance, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
itself that Mrs M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note the FCA at the time, didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an
assessment of affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and
sources of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer. Although, the OFTs ILG guidance does
provide some examples of information a lender may wish to use.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and
circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not
be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance mightnot be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more
assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit
in a sustainable way.
But, certain factors might point to the fact that G.R. Finance should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs M. These factors
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable).
G.R. Finance considers its checks were appropriate and complied with the regulations at all
times when providing this lending.
It seems for each loan G.R. Finance wouldve asked Mrs M for details of her income and
expenditure for its assessment to decide whether to lend. It isnt clear whether for example
whether G.R. Finance carried out any other checks such as carrying out a credit search.
A spreadsheet table has been provided by G.R. Finance to show the information Mrs M
declared for each loan and Ive thought about and considered
Loans 1  4
The adjudicator didnt uphold these loans overall, she hadnt seen enough to make her think
that G.R. Finance had acted unreasonably when it approved these loans. As both G.R.
Finance and Mrs M have agreed with the adjudicators assessment about these loans they
no longer appear to be in dispute.
But for completeness, given the number of loans, the amounts borrowed and what G.R.
Finance knew about Mrs Ms circumstances I also agree a reasonable decision was taken to
approve these loans.
I therefore also dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about these loans.
Loan 5
G.R. Finance has shown, on its spreadsheet of the income and expenditure information that
was taken for this loan, Mrs M declared she had a weekly income of £420. This was made
up of wages as well as some benefits.
G.R. Finance has also taken a fairly detailed list of Mrs Ms outgoings, and these have come
in at around £217 per week. This left Mrs M with £203 disposable income, to pay her total
weekly commitment to G.R. Finance of £90 (£20 for this loan).
The statement of account provided by G.R. Finance also shows that Mrs M hadnt missed
any repayments on other loans up to this point in time. So, it wouldve been reasonable for
G.R. Finance to believe that Mrs M couldve affordable her loan repayments.The adjudicator thought this loan ought to be upheld, because in her view Mrs M had
returned for further borrowing while there were still other loans outstanding. In her view,
having several loans outstanding as well as being granted a fifth loan within six months, and
her commitment increasing significantly from £25 to £90 per week ought to have shown
G.R. Finance that Mrs M couldnt sustainably repay the loan.
Ive thought about this argument and what G.R. Finance has said in response to the
adjudicators assessment. While, Im concerned about the fact that Mrs Ms total borrowing
and weekly repayment had increased significantly since the first loan and she was
committed to spending a not insignificant amount each week to G.R. Finance  all in my
view ought to have led it to have thought very carefully before it advanced further credit.
However, to date, Mrs M hadnt had any repayment problems and appeared to be able to
manage her finances well, and shed recently repaid loan one without any concerns. So,
unlike the adjudicator, while having four loans outstanding can be a sign that Mrs M was
having wider financial issues I dont think here, given what else G.R. Finance knew that it
wouldve been enough to have stopped lending to her.
But that doesnt mean that G.R. Finance did all that it needed to do before it granted this
loan and future loans. Given the fairly quick uptake of borrowing, Mrs M had multiple loans
overlapping ones, and had returned for new lending shortly after loan one was repaid, I think
this ought to have prompted it to carry out further checks.
G.R. Finance couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see copies of her
bank statements, copies of wage slips, utility bills as well as looking at her credit report  or
at least try to establish whether there was any other outstanding credit that Mrs M owed.
Overall, based on what Ive seen I dont think that the checks from at least loan five were
proportionate or went far enough and Im satisfied this is compliant with CONC, whereby the
checks being proportionate needed to change depending on what G.R. Finance knew. In this case 
Mrs M was coming back for new loans on the same day previous loans were being
repaid and she was running a number of loans concurrently.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I must
be satisfied that had G.R. Finance carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely
discovered that Mrs M couldnt afford it.
Mrs Ms hasnt, to date, provided copies of her bank statements or other supporting
documentation. So, I dont know and cant say for sure what G.R. Finance may have seen
had it verified the information she provided it as part of the loan application.
However, Mrs M has had previous complaints at the Financial Ombudsman Service against
other home credit and high cost credit providers. Ive looked at these, but many have very
limited information and the only one thing I can be sure of is she took two loans in 2014 for a
high cost credit provider. None of the cases have any other information that I may have been
able to use to establish what her overall financial situation was at the time.
So, without any further information from Mrs M about her other living costs which, its
difficult for me to conclude what G.R. Finance wouldve likely seen had it made better
checks.
Based on the information Ive been given to date, had G.R. Finance done further checks, I
can only conclude that it wouldve thought the loan was affordable. So, Im intending not to
uphold Mrs Ms complaint about this loan.
Loans 6  8
The adjudicator upheld these loans because she concluded these loans were harmful for
Mrs M because it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to her.I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, G.R. Finance
wouldve likely thought these loans were now harmful to Mrs M.
I accept, that Mrs M had been indebted with G.R. Finance (by loan six) for around 8 months
and in that time had taken six loans at which four had overlapped at any one time. In some
situations, this could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
consecutive and overlapped, which could show that Mrs M had a continued need for credit.
But I also must keep in mind that, on the evidence I have now, these loans were being
repaid without any obvious repayment problems and Mrs Ms overall indebtedness didnt
now seem to be increasing.
So, taking everything together, I dont think GR Finance wouldve or ought to have realised
these loans were unsustainable for Mrs M, but that doesnt mean G.R Finance did all it
shouldve done before advancing these loans.
For the same reasons as loan five G.R. Finance ought to have been verifying the information
Mrs M had provided in order to gain a full and complete picture of her financial position 
G.R. Finance didnt do this so I dont think its checks went far enough.
However, as I dont have any information about Mrs Ms financial position at the time I cant
say that had G.R. Finance carried out further checks it wouldve likely discovered these
loans were unaffordable for her. As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Mrs Ms
complaint about these loans either.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where
G.R. Finance ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms indebtedness in a
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further
loans?
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mrs M by
G.R. Finance, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and
what unfolded during Mrs Ms lending history with G.R. Finance. This is because, there may
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that the
lending was unsustainable.
It is also worth noting here that in August 2020 the FCA released its review to Relending by
High Cost creditors. The FCA lists Home Credit as part of its high cost credit portfolio so it
would be applicable to G.R. Finance.
Although this review came out after these loans had been lent, it didnt include any new
information or amendments to the rules but clarified the position that really was always there
within the rules.
The review said;
In that, we highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could
indicate a pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous
affordability assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should
ensure they are making proportionate and responsible assessments of the
sustainability of borrowing
Ive already concluded above, and the same goes for here, that the checks G.R. Finance
had carried out werent by this time proportionate and so I cant fairly conclude that its
checks were rigorous and so opens the door that Mrs M may have been taking these loans
in an unsustainable manner.
So, referencing the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my
decision, G.R. Finance was required to establish whether Mrs M could sustainably repay herloans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular
the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting other
reasonable commitments.
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that
a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able
to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think this point was reached by loan 9.
at this point G.R. Finance ought to have realised Mrs M was not managing to repay
her loans sustainably. Mrs M had been indebted to G.R. Finance for at just under a
year. So G.R. Finance ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs M was
having to borrow further to cover the hole making her previous loan repayments was
leaving in her finances and that Mrs Ms indebtedness was now unsustainable.
Mrs Ms first loan was for £500 and loan 6 was for £400. Although the amount
Mrs M was borrowed had only slightly decreased her actual weekly commitments
were now significantly more given the number of overlapping loans that she still had
outstanding at the time. At this point G.R. Finance ought to have known that it was
likely Mrs M had an ongoing need for this type of credit and was dependent on it.
Mrs M had developed a pattern of taking out new lending (and repaying old lending)
on the same day, for example loan nine was taken out on the same day that loan five
had been repaid and both of these loans were for the same amount. To me that
shows that Mrs M had long term financial issues that she needed the money for and
wasnt merely using these loans to plug a short term gap in her finances but to
continue to make ends meet.
From loan 9 onwards Mrs M continued to be provided with new credit whilst she
hadnt repaid other loans and she always had at least four loans running at the same
time. Further supporting my view, that Mrs M was likely having financial difficulties as
there was a continued need for credit.
Mrs M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed G.R. Finance. Loan
12 was taken out around 15 months after Mrs Ms first. And it was for a slightly
smaller sum. However, this was also taken on the same day as loan 11 and
combined the total capital borrowed on this day was greater than the first loan. In
additional, at this time loans 9  11 hadnt yet been repaid, so her weekly
commitment had increased from starting with £25 per week to £90 and had stayed at
this level for some time. Mrs M had in effect paid large amounts of interest to service
a debt to G.R. Finance over an extended period.
I think that Mrs M lost out because G.R. Finance continued to provide borrowing from loan 9
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mrs M borrowed was likely to have had negative
implications on Mrs Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the
market for these loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about the loans 9  12 and Ive outlined below what
G.R. Finance needs to do to put things right.
Ive thought about the copies of the text messages that G.R. Finance have provided between
Mrs M and her agent. I would agree with G.R. Finance that much of the contact appears tohave been initiated by Mrs M and her requirements for further borrowing. Which, in of itself
could be a sign of wider financial difficulties, after all why would she need to keep borrowing
new loans.
However, notwithstanding my concerns about Mrs Ms motivation for contacting
G.R. Finance it is, as Ive explained above its regulatory requirement to make sure that
before it lent to Mr M that proportionate checks had been carried out. In my view, copies of
these messages dont add anything further to the complaint.
Did G.R. Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that
leads me to conclude G.R. Finance acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some
other way. Indeed, it does seem to have treated her with forbearance once it became aware
of her financial difficulties.
Response to the Provisional decision
Both G.R. Finance and Mrs M were asked for any further comments and evidence as soon 
as possible, but no later than 4 August 2022. 
G.R. Finance responded to the provisional and fully accepted the findings and the outcome I 
was intending to reach. It explained that since the loans have been granted it has put in 
place new procedures and policies.
Mrs M partly agreed with the provisional decision. But she asked for a reconsideration of 
loans 5  8. Her comments are summarised as follows.
Mrs M says that she did text the agent for further loans but only because after the 
agent had collected her payment she would tell her that she was eligible for further 
loans  but she would have to text the following week. Mrs M wouldnt just text the 
agent without prior knowledge of knowing a loan was available to her. 
Mrs M wasnt asked for proof of income and her expenditure  she says she was told 
by the agent that she just needed to give an approximate number. 
Mrs M only became aware of G.R. Finance by an agent who worked for another 
home collect credit provider. 
Had G.R. Finance carried out proper checks it wouldve seen loans 5  8 werent 
affordable to Mrs M because she had other borrowing at the time from home credit 
providers and payday loan companies. 
Mrs M says the loans were offered on the same day (for different repayment terms) 
wasnt something she wouldve requested or have known about. 
Mrs M says she contacted a independent third party debt advice charity when her 
health started to be affected, at which point the full extent of her borrowing was 
discovered. 
As both parties have responded to the provisional decision before the deadline, I see no 
reason to delay issuing the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither G.R. Finance nor Mrs M disagree with the outcome that I am now going to reach 
about loans 9  12. So, I say no more about them here. Ive also thought about what Mrs M says about the text messages that G.R. Finance 
provided. She has provided testimony which explains why she contacted the agent. Ive 
thought about this, but I hadnt placed any weight on these messages when explaining the 
outcome that I was intending to reach I dont think that I need to make a specific finding 
about the messages. But I do note, what Mrs M has told us.
However, Mrs M has asked me to reconsider the findings I made in relation to loans 5  8. 
Ive considered these loans again in light of Mrs Ms comments and having done so I am still 
of the view that G.R. Finances checks needed to go further, but I havent been given quite 
enough evidence for me to be able to conclude G.R. Finance was wrong to have provided 
loans 5  8. 
As I explained, for these loans G.R. Finance needed to really have a full and complete 
picture of Mrs Ms financial position. As far as I can see, it didnt do this and just relied on the 
information Mrs M declared about her income and expenditure. 
G.R. Finance couldve verified the information it was given by Mrs M and it couldve done 
this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see copies of say a payslip, bills, a copy of her 
credit file and / or it couldve asked to see her bank statements. 
Although proportionate checks werent carried out by G.R. Finance that doesnt mean I am 
able to uphold these loans. I would also have to be satisfied that had G.R. Finance carried 
out further checks it wouldve likely discovered Mrs M either couldnt afford the loans or there 
was evidence to suggest the loans wouldnt be sustainable for her. 
Unfortunately, in this case, I dont know what G.R. Finance may have seen had it carried out 
proportionate checks. As Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mrs M was more likely than not 
taking loans from other home credit providers and as she says she was borrowing from 
payday lenders as well. I have evidence that she was using well known high cost credit 
companies because I found other complaints within our case handling system. 
However, there is no information contained within those records, so I cant for example say 
whether there were (or werent) loans outstanding or how much these loans were for with 
these providers at the time the G.R. Finance loans were provided. I therefore cant work out 
how these other loans may have impacted Mrs Ms ability to afford the G.R. Finance loans.  
This means, I cant be sure what Mrs Ms financial position was at the time loans 5  8 were 
granted and why, in this case I wasnt able to ask G.R. Finance to pay compensation for 
these loans.  
I therefore dont think G.R. Finance ought to have advanced loans 9  12 and Ive outlined 
below the steps that it needs to take in order to put things right for Mrs M. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress G.R. Finance should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened if it had stopped lending from loan 9, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming
that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce G.R. Finances liability in this case for what Im satisfied
it has done wrong and should put right.
Although, Ive not considered loans 13  16 G.R. Finance did write off an amount that was
owed to it by Mrs M. I do think it is fair and reasonable when considering what it needs to do 
to put things right to allow G.R Finance to offset against the refund below against any 
principal amount that was written off for those loans.
I say this because if the Financial Ombudsman Service had decided those loans shouldnt
have been granted, our starting point for putting things right is to ensure that at least the
capital can be recovered by the lender.
I think G.R. Finance shouldnt have given Mrs M loans 9 -12.
A. G.R. Finance should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding 
balance, not including anything G.R. Finance has already refunded.
B. G.R. Finance should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made
by Mrs M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. G.R. Finance should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs M as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs M 
having made overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. G.R. Finance should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance that was written off. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mrs M. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance G.R. Finance shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it 
has already written-off.
E. The overall pattern of Mrs Ms borrowing for loans 9  12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires G.R. Finance to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im partially upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint.
G.R. Finance Limited should put things right for Mrs M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman