DRN-3802960
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank sent a security 
code to his ex-wife not him.
What happened
Mr S says Tesco Bank sent a new security code to his ex-wifes mobile telephone that ought 
to have been sent to him. He says he was concerned that his ex-wife could access his 
account, view his spending or use his account. Mr S says Tesco Bank offered him £25 
compensation, but he doesnt think that is sufficient as he was the victim of financial abuse 
by his ex-wife.
Tesco Bank accepts it made a mistake but says there is no evidence Mr Ss account was 
accessed by his ex-wife. It says it paid Mr S £25 compensation which he accepted, and he 
didnt tell it about any financial abuse.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought Tesco Bank should pay a further £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr S was caused.
Mr S hasnt replied to the investigators view and Tesco Bank doesnt accept it. Tesco Bank 
says the problem was sorted out in a matter of four days and there was no lasting impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator, that Tesco Bank 
should increase its compensation offer.
There is no dispute here that Tesco Bank made a mistake by sending confidential 
information to the wrong person. I have no doubt Mr S was concerned that his account could 
have been compromised and that his personal spending made visible to his ex-wife. I accept 
that Mr Ss account wasnt compromised but am satisfied he was caused distress as a result 
of the mistake.
I also accept that Mr S was caused inconvenience in having to speak to Tesco Bank again 
some days later about the security code.
The only question for me to decide is the compensation level. I have made clear that I think 
Mr S was caused distress and inconvenience whilst in the process of a separation. I 
appreciate Tesco Bank wouldnt have been aware of the background and circumstances, but 
it still made a significant mistake. And I dont think £25 compensation reflects the level of this 
mistake and the inconvenience caused
Overall, I think that Tesco Bank should pay a total of £125 compensation which I think is fair 
and reasonable. I dont think this was a simple administration error but a mistake that caused 
Mr S concern about the security of his account regardless of if it was compromised. As I 
dont think Mr Ss account was accessed in any way and the problem was resolved within 
days then I dont think the compensation should be increased beyond the £125.
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should pay a further £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to pay Mr S a further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman