DRN-3393367
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that AWP P&C SA declined their travel insurance cancellation claim. 
My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
On 18 June 2019 Mrs and Mr L bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy for their 
family. The cancellation section of the policy was underwritten by AWP. Mrs and Mr L bought 
the policy to cover a trip the family was due go on in July 2019 as well as later trips. They 
selected the start date for the policy to be the start date of the trip, 28 July 2019.
Unfortunately on 18 July 2019 Mrs and Mr Ls young daughter badly broke her arm and was 
medically advised not to travel. On 19 July 2019 Mr L called AWP to tell it the situation. He 
says AWP told him the documents he needed to provide to claim for cancellation of the trip.
AWP sent Mr L the claim form that day and he submitted the claim at the end of August 
2019. In early September 2019 AWP asked Mr L for more documents and information about 
the claim, which he provided.
At the end of September 2019 AWP declined the claim as the incident and the medical 
advice which caused the cancellation claim happened before the policy cover started. So 
there was no cover for cancellation.
Mrs and Mr L complained to us. In summary they said:
When they bought the policy it wasnt made clear to them that cancellation cover 
didnt start immediately, as it would with a single trip policy. They didnt know their 
cover only started on 28 July 2019.
When Mr L spoke to AWP on 19 July 2019 about their situation he gave AWP the 
policy number. AWP should have known and told him the policy cover hadnt started, 
and it didnt. Instead AWP told him how to make a claim and once hed made a claim 
it had asked for further information about costs giving the strong impression that they 
were covered.
AWPs delay in telling them they werent covered disadvantaged them. They said 
they could have made alternative arrangements rather than cancel the planned trip. 
Also, as they understood they would receive a cancellation settlement they booked 
another holiday which they wouldnt have done if theyd known their claim wasnt 
covered.
They want AWP to pay the cancellation claim.
Our investigator said Mrs and Mr L would need to make a separate complaint about a 
potential mis-sale of the policy against the business that sold the policy. He thought that 
in the 19 July call AWP should have reasonably told Mr L cancellation cover hadnt 
started and that it unnecessarily inconvenienced Mr L by asking for further information to 
support his claim when it could have declined the claim straightaway. But our 
investigator didnt think that AWP had otherwise disadvantaged Mrs and Mr L as in the 
19 July call Mr L told AWP the family had already decided to cancel the holiday and Mr L 
should have considered alternative options about the lost holiday anyway as they had a 
duty to mitigate (take steps to minimise their loss). Our investigator recommended AWP 
pay Mrs and Mr L £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience they were put to in 
obtaining documents AWP didnt need to ask for, but AWP didnt need to pay the claim.
AWP accepted the recommendation. Mrs and Mr L disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans 
decision. They said:
Theyd taken reasonable steps to mitigate their loss in cancelling the holiday as soon 
as they were medically advised to
They had been disadvantaged by AWP leading them to believe the cancellation claim 
was covered. They said they could have asked the holiday providers to be 
sympathetic to their circumstances and move the booking to the following year, or 
they could have amended the booking to Mr Ls brothers family. They emphasised 
they wouldnt have booked an alternative holiday.
£100 wasnt reasonable compensation for the distress caused by AWP not telling 
them there was no cover at the time they cancelled the trip.
Before I made a decision I asked AWP to provide the policy application process Mrs and 
Mr L went through in June 2019 as I thought it was responsible for the policy sale. It 
provided the process, which I referred to in my provisional findings.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant industry rules say insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Mrs and Mr Ls first point of their complaint was the policy sale wasnt clear that cancellation 
cover didnt start immediately for the policy they bought. The policy says:
(Name of another business) is an insurance intermediary providing a non-advised 
service. We act for and on behalf of the insurer
(Name of insurance intermediary) exclusively uses AWP P&C SA to underwrite 
(name of policy) Travel Insurance, except for Gadget cover which is underwritten by 
(a separate insurer) and Scheduled Airline Failure underwritten by (another separate 
insurer).
So I think the insurance intermediary was acting on behalf of AWP in the sale of the policy 
and its fair for me to consider the mis-sale complaint as part of this complaint, against AWP.
Its sent us the policy sale process Mrs and Mr L went through.
The sales process shows that the section headed when would you like your cover to start?
has a note alongside dates to select which says:
Annual Multi Trip policies cover you for 12 months from the start date. No cover is
given for cancellation until the policy starts. If you want this cover, you should
consider starting the policy straight away
Single Trip policies cover you for cancellation from the day you buy your policy,
regardless of when you are going.
I think the above information was clear that if Mrs and Mr L were buying an annual multi trip 
policy cancellation cover didnt start until the policy started and if they wanted that cover they should select the date they bought the policy, not the date the trip started. So I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold to Mrs and Mr L.
Ive also looked at the policy documents sent to Mrs and Mr L.
The policy says:
Period of Insurance
For annual multi-trip cover Cancellation cover begins on the start date shown on your 
policy schedule or the date you booked your journey, whichever is the later and ends 
at the beginning of your journey...
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which is a summary of keys parts of 
the policy, says on page 2:
When does the cover start and end? ....
For annual multi-trip cover
Cancellation cover begins on the start date shown on your policy schedule or the 
date you booked your journey, whichever is the later and ends at the beginning of 
your journey
The policy schedule says the start date for cover is 28 July 2019.
I think its clear from the policy documents that cancellation cover in Mrs and Mr Ls policy 
didnt start until 28 July 2019. As the accident and medical advice that caused the 
cancellation of the trip was before that date there was no cover for cancellation of the trip 
and AWP could decline the claim on that basis.
However, I also need to consider whats a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint in 
all the circumstances. So Ive thought about what AWP should have reasonably done when 
Mr L told it about the claim on 19 July 2019, and if it acted unreasonably whether it 
disadvantaged Mrs and Mr L.
Ive listened to the 19 July call. Mr L gave AWP the policy number. He told AWP he was at 
the hospital with his daughter whod badly broken her arm. He said theyd told the hospital 
they were due to fly a week on Sunday to a named long haul destination and had been 
medically advised she couldnt travel so he needed a bit of a steer what AWP needed for a 
claim. AWP confirmed hed like to make a claim and asked if any of the family was going. 
Mr L said we cant go without her really. AWP said it would send a claim form as it wouldnt 
expect him to go without his daughter. It went through what documents Mr L would need to 
submit with his claim. Mr L said hed need to cancel the flights and other parts of the holiday. 
AWP said it was going to check the excess that applied and asked if Mr L had looked at the 
policy, to which he replied not yet. AWP then looked at the policy information, gave Mr L 
details about the excess and gave the claim reference.
Mr L told AWP hed like advice about making a cancellation claim. Hed given it his policy 
number, hed told AWP when they were due to travel. I think it would have been reasonable 
in this call for AWP to have checked whether the policy cover had started. AWP has said its 
not usual practice to make a claim decision at the first notification of a claim. I accept that 
generally its not possible for a claim decision to be made at that point as generally AWP 
wouldnt have all the information it would need to assess the claim. But in this case the only 
issue was whether the cover was already in force for an annual multi trip policy. During the call AWP went as far as to call up the policy details and check the excess under the policy. 
I think it would have been reasonable for AWP to have checked the simple but key 
information about the policy start date. If it had it would have seen the policy cover hadnt 
started and told Mr L in that call.
Our investigator said because of Mr Ls profession its reasonable to expect hed have a 
greater appreciation of the need to read and understand the policy documents, which would 
have showed the policy start date. But Ive no evidence that Mr L is an expert in insurance 
matters and I think AWP is the expert here. Mr L was at the hospital and told AWP he hadnt 
looked at the policy document yet. AWP said nothing in the call to prompt him to check the 
policy start date after the call finished. I think in the call AWP gave Mr L the strong 
impression that the claim would be covered subject to it getting the supporting documents it 
detailed.
I think AWP did disadvantage Mrs and Mr L by not telling Mr L in the call that there was no 
policy cover due to the policy not having started and by giving the impression there was 
cover. In addition AWP reinforced their understanding they were covered by asking for 
further information about the claim in early September 2020. From AWPs notes it seems it 
only realised there was no cover due to the policy start date just before it declined the claim.
Its clear from what Mr L told AWP that they hadnt cancelled the holiday before the call. Mrs 
and Mr L say if theyd known there was no cover, they would have tried to arrange for the 
holiday to be rescheduled or amend the booking for Mr Ls brothers family to go instead. Its 
not clear if either of those options would have been possible, but due to AWPs actions Mrs 
and Mr L werent given the opportunity to find out. I dont think they reasonably needed to 
make those enquiries as they reasonably understood the claim would be covered. Even if 
they couldnt have made those alternative arrangements Mrs and Mr L have been consistent 
and persuasive that they would never have incurred the cost of an alternative holiday if 
theyd known the claim was going to be declined, and I accept what they say about that.
In these particular circumstances I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for AWP to 
assess the claim as if the cancellation cover was in force, subject to the remaining policy 
terms, conditions and limits. AWP should pay Mrs and Mr L compensation at the amount it 
would have paid for the claim if the cancellation cover had started, less the excesses.
In addition, AWP should pay Mrs and Mr L £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
due to how AWP handled the claim. Mrs and Mr L say the £100 isnt enough to reflect the 
distress of AWP not paying the claim. But this element of the compensation isnt for loss of 
expectation and Ive said that AWP should pay compensation at the amount it would have 
paid for the claim if the cancellation cover had started.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs and Mr L accepted my provisional decision. AWP didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs and Mr L accepted my provisional decision and AWP didnt respond Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
I think AWP unfairly declined the claim and gave unreasonable service. I uphold this 
complaint. AWP must put things right as Ive detailed below. Putting things right
AWP must assess the claim as if the cancellation cover was in force, subject to the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits. It should pay Mrs and Mr L compensation at 
the amount it would have paid for the claim if the cancellation cover had started, less the 
excesses. It should also pay Mrs and Mr L £100 to reflect their distress and inconvenience it 
caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
assess the claim as if the cancellation cover was in force, subject to the remaining 
policy terms, conditions and limits. It should pay Mrs and Mr L compensation at the 
amount it would have paid for the claim if the cancellation cover had started, less the 
excesses, and
pay Mrs and Mr L £100 to reflect their distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman