DRN-3032132
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that 1plus 1 Loans Limited (trading as 1plus 1 Loans) provided her 
with an unaffordable guarantor loan. 
Background
1plus 1 Loans provided Mrs S with a loan of £5,000.00 in October 2017. This loan had an 
APR of 46.9% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount to repay, including 
interest of, £6,437.80, was £11,437.80 and Mrs S had to 60 monthly instalments of around 
£190. One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 1plus 1 Loans had 
unfairly provided Mrs S with this loan. So she recommended the complaint be upheld. 1plus 
1 Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs S complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 1plus 1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs S would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did 1plus 1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 1plus 1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mrs S would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
1plus 1 Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 1plus 1 Loans to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs S ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 1plus 1 Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs S. In practice this
meant that 1plus 1 Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mrs S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
1plus 1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs S. The existence of a guarantee and the 
potential for 1plus 1 Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Mrs S, for the loan payments 
doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were 1plus 1 Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
1plus 1 Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs S 
before it agreed to provide this loan to her. It also carried out a credit check, checked Mrs S 
income electronically and cross-referenced Mrs S expenditure against data from the Office 
of National Statistics (ONS). These checks confirmed that Mrs S total income, made up of 
her salary and in-work benefits was around £1,400.00 a month and had total expenses of 
around £920 leaving her with £400 in monthly disposable income after a buffer of £100 was 
also added. 
The credit check 1plus 1 Loans carried out showed that Mrs S had ten other existing credit 
commitments including a guarantor loan with another provider. Given the purpose of this 
loan was home improvement there was no indication any of Mrs S existing credit would be 
repaid with the proceeds of this loan. Nonetheless, 1plus 1 Loans says Mrs S had enough 
left to be able to comfortably make the required monthly payments to this loan, when the living costs and the monthly payments needed to meet the credit commitments shown on the 
credit check were deducted from Mrs S monthly income. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what 1plus 1 Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check 1plus 1 Loans carried out indicated that Mrs S already had an existing 
guarantor loan (although it isnt clear whether the guarantor was guaranteeing Mrs S 
existing loan). Equally while 1plus 1 Loans hasnt provided the full copy of the credit search 
results it obtained (it only showed us what it included in its income and expenditure 
assessment) Mrs S full credit report shows that she was in a debt management plan and 
had arrangements to pay other debts. Mrs S was also heavily overdrawn too. I cant see that 
the expenditure side of 1plus 1 Loans accounted for any of this.
Bearing in mind the regulatory rules place an obligation to carry out a borrower focused 
check, where previous repayment difficulties are apparent, given what 1plus 1 Loans  is 
likely to have seen, I would have expected it to have taken additional steps to verify that   
Mrs S was in a position to take on this additional commitment before providing it. I also have 
concerns with 1plus 1 Loans use of ONS data to validate Mrs S living expenses. 1plus 1 
Loans may say the FCA permits the use of statistical data to estimate a prospective 
borrowers non-discretionary expenditure. I accept that this is the case but its also fair to say 
it also states that it is unfair to rely on such data where it is unlikely to be reasonably 
representative of the prospective borrowers situation. 
1plus 1 Loans used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the 
average consumer, to validate Mrs S living expenses. But 1plus 1 Loans knew, when it lent 
to Mrs S, that it was providing a loan to someone whose credit file suggested they fell well 
outside this average portfolio. I dont think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to 
reflect the existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Mrs S position is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. Furthermore, Im also concerned how 1plus 1 Loans seems to 
have accepted at face value that Mrs S had a monthly disposable income of over £400. This 
is despite the fact that this disposable income was clearly at odds with what her credit file 
was displaying and her apparent need for a second guarantor loan.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that 1plus 1 Loans needed to take steps to verify Mrs S 
expenditure and consider what it was made up of instead of choosing to rely on an over 
optimistic calculation of her monthly disposable income based on data and declared 
expenditure. As I cant see that this 1plus 1 Loans did do this, or in fact take any steps at all 
to address the apparent mismatch between what Mrs S credit file suggested and the 
disposable income arrived at, I dont think that the checks it carried out before providing    
Mrs S with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 1plus 1 Loans that Mrs S
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told 1plus 1 Loans that Mrs S wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mrs S has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mrs S has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 1plus 1 Loans mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from 1plus 1 Loans showing what this information would have shown, I think 
its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mrs S financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at 
the time. 
To be clear, Ive not looked at Mrs S bank statements because I think that 1plus 1 Loans 
ought to have obtained them before lending to her  although it does appear as though 1plus 
1 Loans did obtain some open banking information as part of its consideration of Mrs S 
complaint. Ive consulted Mrs S bank statements because they were readily available at this 
stage and they contain the information I now need to reconstruct the proportionate check 
1plus 1 Loans should have but failed to carry out.
As Ive already explained, 1plus 1 Loans was required to establish whether Mrs S could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the 
basis that it, in any event, had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover 
payments from the guarantor.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered the information Mrs S has provided in light of all of this. The 
information provided shows that the joint account Mrs S was a party was and had been 
significantly overdrawn for sometime and there were even a number of returned direct debits 
in the lead up to this application. I appreciate that this was a joint account and that Mrs S 
wasnt solely responsible for this debt. But the point is here that Mrs S was jointly and 
severally liable for this debt and I cant see that 1plus 1 Loans attributed anything at all from 
Mrs S income towards repaying this.
Furthermore, as Mrs S mortgage was being paid from this account  supposedly by her 
partner  the sheer number of returned direct debits ought to have called this as well as the 
expenditure declaration provided into question. Especially bearing in mind Mrs S pre-
existing difficulties with credit  in terms of her debt management plan, arrangements to 
repay and apparent dependence on high-cost credit.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs S was already reliant on credit and in a 
difficult financial position. I think this, in itself, demonstrates that Mrs S was unlikely to have 
been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering 
undue difficulty. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have alerted 1plus 1 Loans to the fact that Mrs S would 
not be able to sustainably make the repayments to this loan. 
Did 1plus 1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 1plus 1 Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in 
some other way.  So I find that 1plus 1 Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in some other 
way.  
Did Mrs S lose out as a result of 1plus 1 Loans unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Mrs S has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that she
shouldnt have been provided with in the first place, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what 1plus 1 Loans did wrong.
So I think that 1plus 1 Loans needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what 1plus 1 Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mrs S complaint for 1plus 1 Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The
payments Mrs S has made should be deducted from the £5,000.00 she was
originally lent. 1plus 1 Loans should treat any payments made if and when the
£5,000.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be
refunded to Mrs S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Mrs S to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1plus 1 Loans to take off tax from this interest.
1plus 1 Loans must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. 1plus 1 Loans Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman