DRN-3938423
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc are holding him liable for payments from his
account which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In May 2022 there were a series of
payments made from Mr Ls Barclays Everyday Saver Account. All were made to the same
beneficiary (Mr M).
Between 3 May and 27 May 2022 nine payments left the account with values ranging from
£23.45 to £189.76. The same day that each payment left the account, a corresponding
amount was credited into the account from Mr M. On 30 May 2022 there was a further 20
outgoing payments which totalled around £11,370. There were also two further credits from
Mr M amounting to £428.04 meaning Mr L had suffered a loss of just under £11,000.
Mr L reported to Barclays that he didnt recognise any of these transactions and that he
didnt know who Mr M was. Barclays investigated but ultimately held Mr L liable for the
payments he was disputing. Mr L referred his complaint to our service and one of our
Investigators considered it. She didnt recommend it should be upheld and thought Barclays
had acted fairly. Mr L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In May 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said: Ive considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator. But as Im
providing some more detailed reasoning, I wanted to issue this provisional decision to give
everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
All the outgoing payments disputed by Mr L were instructed via online banking. And I can
see from Barclays evidence that on numerous occasions in May 2022 when the online
banking was logged into, part of this process involved not just knowledge of the security
details, but further authentication through PIN Sentry. This would have involved either
entering the card and PIN into a card reader or a similar process through the mobile banking
app. I can see that Barclays asked Mr L many questions about whether hed shared any
codes or security details or had downloaded software, clicked on any links or received any
suspicious phone calls. Mr L said that he hadnt. So, there isnt any plausible point of
compromise for how anyone other than Mr L would have been able to take all the steps
required to log into his online banking and to instruct the payments. Particularly knowledge
of his security credentials, and on occasions his PIN and physical possession of his card.
There were also several occasions throughout May 2022 where online banking was
accessed without any payments being instructed. Even if there were an explanation as to
how a fraudster could have logged in, it seems unlikely they would have done so without
then going on to instruct payments (particularly when there was a significant balance). I think
its more likely those logins were also Mr L, in which case Id question why he didnt query (at
that time) activity that would have been visible on the account, which he later went on to
dispute.
I also agree with our Investigator that overall, the activity isnt typical of fraudulent use. Had a
third party gained access to Mr Ls account (as he alleges), its unclear why small payments
would be made (and then credited back to the account). Particularly as at any point over a
period of weeks the activity could have been noticed and the account secured. It seems
implausible that a third party would have taken these steps rather than attempting to
maximise their benefit before the potential discovery of unauthorised account access.
In response to our Investigators view on the complaint, Mr L said he wants our service to
contact the police and to identify the payee. Our role is to resolve complaints, not to
investigate any criminal activity. If Mr L hasnt already done so, he is free to report matters
himself and Im confident Barclays would co-operate with any police investigation. But
contacting the police isnt something Id expect Barclays to do, nor something that our
service would do on Mr Ls behalf.
Overall, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly in holding Mr L liable for the transactions
he disputes. It follows that there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct that they
need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Neither Mr L nor Barclays responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman