DRN-4299375
The complaint
Miss D complains about the way that Vitality Health Limited handled a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
Miss Ds represented by Mr M.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I havent set them out 
in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
In February 2022, Miss D applied for a personal private medical insurance policy with 
Vitality. Cover began on 5 March 2022 and the policy was underwritten on a Continuing 
Personal Medical Exclusions (CPME) basis. This included a moratorium clause which was 
effective from 5 March 2017.
Unfortunately, on the same day the cover began, Miss D was admitted to hospital as an 
emergency and needed to undergo surgery for the removal of part of her colon. Following 
the surgery, she had a stoma.
In September 2022, Miss D contacted Vitality to make a claim for surgery to reverse her 
earlier operation. Initially Miss D didnt provide Vitality with a GP referral letter, which Vitality 
said it needed to progress the claim. Following the receipt of that information, Vitality 
decided it required further medical evidence from Miss Ds GP about Miss Ds medical 
history, which it received a few days later.
Vitality concluded that the new evidence provided by the GP needed to be assessed by its 
underwriters. However, it didnt refer Miss Ds claim to the relevant team for almost three 
weeks. Once the new evidence had been reviewed, Vitality identified more questions about 
Miss Ds medical history and so it wrote to her GP again for further information. But when the 
new report was received, Vitality noted that it didnt include some of the evidence it had 
asked for. So it required more information before it could decide whether or not to approve 
Miss Ds claim.
The relevant information was received at the end of January 2023 and Vitality approved Miss 
Ds claim on 1 February 2023.
Miss D was very unhappy with the way Vitality had handled her claim and so Mr M 
complained on her behalf. Miss D was unhappy with the delays and the lack of 
communication from Vitality throughout the life of the claim. So Mr M asked us to look into 
Miss Ds complaint.
Vitality maintained that it had needed to obtain medical information to verify the claim and 
therefore, it didnt agree that it was responsible for all of the delays Miss D had experienced. 
But it did agree that there had been some delays it was responsible for and that there had 
been communication failings. So it paid Miss D £150 compensation to reflect the impact of 
its service errors.
Mr M subsequently let us know that although Miss Ds reversal surgery had been planned as 
one operation, the surgeon had now recommended that the surgery take place over two 
stages. He and Miss D felt that the delays in approving the claim had led to the surgery now 
needing to be carried out across two procedures.
Our investigator felt it had been reasonable for Vitality to require additional medical evidence 
to allow it to assess whether the claim was covered. Thats because he felt the GPs initial 
and subsequent evidence had indicated that Miss Ds surgery could be linked to a condition 
which could have been caught by the moratorium. So he didnt agree that Vitality was 
responsible for all of the delays in assessing the claim. He did think though that there were 
periods when it could have progressed the claim sooner.
He considered the available medical evidence. He noted that in June 2022, three months 
after the original surgery, Miss Ds surgeon had referred to a small hernia having developed 
at the site of her stoma. The surgeon had also said that theyd consider a reversal of the 
original surgery around three months later. However, by March 2023, the surgeon stated that 
Miss D had developed a large hernia, which was very symptomatic for her. And theyd 
recommended a staged approach to the reversal surgery at this point.
The investigator considered that the evidence indicated Miss Ds hernia had grown 
significantly larger between the time the claim was made and the time it was approved. He 
felt it was the growth of the hernia which had made staged surgery necessary. So he felt that 
the delays in Vitality approving the claim had caused Miss D significant distress and 
inconvenience and he didnt think £150 compensation was sufficient to reflect this. Instead, 
he recommended that Vitality should pay Miss D total compensation of £500.
Mr M said he didnt think that £5000 would be enough compensation to reflect the anguish 
and upset Miss D had been caused by Vitalitys handling of her claim.
Vitality didnt agree with the investigator. It felt the surgeons letter indicated that the reason 
a staged surgery had been recommended was to reduce the risk of mesh infection. It wrote 
to Miss Ds specialist to ask specifically why two-stage surgery had been recommended.
The surgeon responded to say that the primary reason for recommending staged surgery 
was to reduce the risk of mesh infection.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 July 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought 
Vitality should pay Miss D a total of £300 compensation. I said:
First, I understand that Miss D has now undergone the reversal surgery and unfortunately, 
suffered complications as a result. I hope she is now beginning to recover well.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they must provide policyholders with reasonable guidance to help them make a claim. 
So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Miss Ds insurance contract and the 
available medical evidence, to decide whether I think Vitality treated her fairly. 
It's common ground that Miss Ds policy cover began on 5 March 2022 on CPME terms. This 
meant that she would have the same cover for any existing medical conditions that shed 
held with her previous medical insurer. This included a moratorium with a start date of 5 
March 2017. As such, before it accepted any claim on the policy, I think Vitality was entitled 
to be satisfied that the claim wouldnt be caught by the terms of the existing moratorium 
clause.
In this case, before Vitality could accept the claim, it needed to ensure that Miss Ds condition wasnt linked to any condition which might fall within the scope of the moratorium. 
The GPs first referral letter referred to Miss D suffering from a diverticular abscess in 2013, 
which Vitality considered could be linked to the condition she was claiming for. So I think it 
was reasonable for Vitality to ask for more information about Miss Ds medical history. And 
when the GP responded to Vitalitys information request, they indicated that Miss D had 
previously sort of suffered from episodes of the condition she was now claiming for. Again, 
they referred to the diverticular abscess of 2013. Accordingly, I can understand why Vitality 
felt it needed more information to assess whether or not the claim should be covered.
And when the GP sent further information to Vitality, they didnt include information Vitality 
had asked for. This meant that Vitality wasnt able to make a claims decision. It didnt receive 
all of the information it had asked for from the GP until 19 January 2023. This was the point 
at which I think it had enough medical evidence to show that Miss Ds claim was covered by 
the policy terms.
It follows then that I dont think I could fairly find that Vitality was for responsible for the 
majority of the delays in Miss Ds claim being approved. There were some months where 
Vitality was waiting for medical evidence I think it was reasonably entitled to see before it 
could confirm whether or not the claim should be authorised.
Nonetheless, I agree with our investigator that there are two specific periods where Vitality 
was directly responsible for delays in the progression of the claim. The first was between 3 
and 22 November 2022, when Vitality failed to pass on medical evidence to its underwriting 
team. And the second delay was between 19 January and 1 February 2023, while the claim 
was referred again to the underwriting team, before being approved. These periods amount 
to total avoidable delays of around 22 working days.
It's clear too that there were communication failings while Vitality assessed the claim. Mr M 
asked for updates and call-backs which simply werent forthcoming. Ive seen emails 
between Mr M and Vitality in which he set out the impact the situation was having on Miss D. 
I think its reasonable and appropriate then for Vitality to compensate Miss D for the impact 
the avoidable periods of delay and Vitalitys service failings had on her.
So Ive gone on to consider what I think fair compensation should be. In doing so, Ive looked 
carefully at the medical evidence provided by Miss Ds surgeon. I appreciate that both Mr M 
and the investigator concluded that it was Vitalitys delays which had resulted in Miss D 
requiring a two-stage operation rather than one. Ive thought about this carefully.
I can see from the surgeons letter of June 2022 that at this point, Miss D had developed a 
small hernia on the stoma site and that three months later, the surgeon would consider 
laparoscopic surgery to reverse the original operation. Theres no reference here to the 
surgery being carried out in two stages.
It's clear too that by March 2023, the surgeon noted that Miss D had developed a large 
hernia. And that they recommended a two-stage operation to reverse the original surgery. I 
agree then that there was clear, recorded hernia growth between June 2022 and March 
2023. I note though that I dont have a copy of any clinic letter dated around September 
2022, which was the point Miss D made the claim. It seems to me that given the surgeon 
had agreed to carry out the reversion surgery, its likely that another clinic appointment had 
taken place in and around September 2022. So I cant say what size the hernia was at the 
time the claim was made.
But I also note that within their letter of March 2023, the surgeon said: Although we could do 
this as a combined procedure, the risk of mesh infection would be too great in my opinion. I 
have therefore advised a staged approach.The surgeon provided further information to Vitality which is dated 30 May 2023. Vitality 
asked:
Please can you confirm the primary reason for proposing two stage procedure (sic) for this 
member please? And is it owing to the risk of mesh infection?
The surgeon responded: Biological mesh lacks the tensile strength for repair. It may be 
necessary to use prolene mesh. Yes  to reduce the risk of mesh infection.
I think its appropriate to place weight on the surgeons evidence. Thats because they are 
the expert in their field, responsible for Miss Ds care. And the evidence theyve provided 
doesnt support a conclusion that Miss D needed two-stage surgery because the size of the 
hernia had grown, or that it was because of any delay in Vitality authorising the claim.
Instead, the evidence indicates that the two-stage surgery was proposed to mitigate the risk 
of mesh infection. As such, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably conclude that the delays 
in the approval of the claim were the reason Miss D required two-stage surgery rather than 
the one operation which had originally been considered. Therefore, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to award compensation for this particular point.
However, as Ive set out above, Mr M had made clear to Vitality the impact the delays in its 
assessment of the claim had on Miss Ds mental health and he told Vitality that Miss D was 
in pain. As Ive said, I think 22 working days of delay can be attributed to Vitality. So if the 
claim had been referred to underwriting sooner than it was, the claim could likely have been 
approved around 22 working days earlier. This was additional, unnecessary time where Miss 
D was upset and in pain. And Vitality accepts that there were clear communication failings.
As such, I dont currently think £150 is fair compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
Miss D was caused at a time when she was already distressed and in pain. In my view, a 
total award of £300 (inclusive of the compensation Vitality has already paid) is a fair and 
reasonable award to reflect the impact I think its service issues had on Miss D.
Overall then, I currently plan to direct Vitality to pay Miss D a total award of £300 
compensation, less the £150 its already paid.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Vitality said it accepted my provisional findings. Mr M said he disagreed with many of my 
comments, but that he and Miss D had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided me with any substantive new evidence or 
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Miss D a total of £300 compensation, less the amount 
its already paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman