DRN-3969136
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt apply a new interest rate to his buy-
to-let mortgage.
What happened
Mr W held a fixed rate mortgage with Santander, which was due to end on 3 August 2022.
Mr W got in touch with Santander on 20 July 2022 to discuss his options. He later received a
mortgage offer dated 22 July 2022. The offer was for a five-year fixed rate at 3.59% with no
fee, valid until 3 August 2022.
Mr W spoke to Santander on 1 and 2 August 2022 to discuss this further. Following this,
Mr W says he understood his new rate was in place until he received a letter in early
September which confirmed the Bank of England base rate had increased, so his standard
variable rate was going up to 5%. Mr W says he should have been on the new rate and so
he would like Santander to backdate his interest to the rate he was offered on 22 July 2022.
Santander reviewed Mr Ws concerns and issued a final response letter on 26 September
2022. It said Mr W didnt accept the rate change offer before it expired and directed to him
call and arrange a new offer.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator
looked into his concerns, but they werent satisfied Mr W had correctly accepted the offer via
the link he was sent by email. As Mr W disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to
decide. I issued a provisional decision on 22 March 2022 and set out why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. Below is an extract of what I said:
Mr W received his offer by email on 22 July 2022. The email invited him to accept the offer
via a link. As Mr W still hadnt accepted it by 29 July 2022, he was sent another email with
another link to accept the offer. So, I think Mr W understood he could accept the offer this
way, but it appears he hadnt fully made his mind up as he phoned Santander to ask for
more information on 1 August 2022.
During this call, Mr W asked Santander if it could clarify what rates were available to him. He
was informed of four rates he could apply for. There were two-year fixed rates available at
3.54% without a fee, or 3.39% with a fee of £1,499. And five-year fixed rates available at
3.59% with no fee, or 3.44% with a fee of £1,499. During the same call, Mr W was reminded
his rate was coming to an end the next day and if he didnt accept the offer on time, his
mortgage would switch to a standard variable rate. Mr W acknowledged this and said he
would call back with a decision the next day.
So, Mr W hadnt accepted the offer he received in July at this point. But he had applied for
that offer well in advance of his existing product expiring, and its clear his intention was to
move onto a new fixed rate before his rate changed onto a standard variable rate. Mr W
made it clear he intended to call back with his decision the next day and he wasnt told not
to, or that if he wanted to accept the offer he had, he should do this via the link that was sent
to him. So, I think Mr W was left with the understanding he could call back the next day to
confirm his acceptance of the rate he decided on.
Mr W called Santander back the next day, on 2 August 2022 as he said he would.
Santander initially only provided the second part of the call, so our investigator asked for the
first part. I note Santander said the content wasnt relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
But as the investigator asked for it again it was eventually provided. And having listened to
both recordings, I think they explain the confusion caused and its because of this I think the
complaint should be upheld.
At the start of the call, Mr W said he needed a little bit more information. He said hed
received an offer and confirmed the details of each of the products he was told about in the
call he had the day before. He asked the call handler to reconfirm that there was no fee on
the five-year fixed rate of 3.59%. He then enquired about the five-year fixed rate with a fee,
and after hearing the monthly cost of each again, he decided he was better off with the one
with no fee. He asked if he could go for the five-year fixed rate at 3.59% with no fee. The call
handler said that was fine and asked whether hed previously spoken to Santander. Mr W
confirmed he had an offer that was due to expire at midnight. The call handler confirmed he
just wanted to accept that offer. Mr W said yes.
So, I think its clear from this Mr W hadnt yet accepted the offer but now wanted to accept it
on the call. And Im satisfied the call handler understood this was his intention too.
The call handler discussed the details of the product he wanted to accept again, and Mr W
was asked to write a four-digit code down. The call handler then said she would transfer him
through. I heard the internal discussion the call handler had with a colleague, the second call
handler, while Mr W remained on hold. During this discussion, the second call handler
confirmed Mr W had already booked a rate. The initial call handler said Mr W wanted a new
one. The second call handler said hed already got the offer he just needs to accept it via the
link in the email he was sent and mentioned that the rates were going up. So, the initial call
handler said she would let Mr W know.
The initial call handler then went back to the call with Mr W and asked him if hed accepted
the rate. Mr W confirmed he had. The call handler said that was fine and confirmed the new
rate would take effect from tomorrow.Based on this conversation, I think its more likely than not Mr W thought he was confirming
his acceptance of the rate when the call handler reconnected with him. The call handler
already knew Mr W hadnt accepted the rate himself and that she was the recipient of his
acceptance  he understood she was putting him on hold to arrange this. The call handler
didnt mention anything to Mr W about him having to accept the offer via an email link or any
other method. So, I dont think she did enough to ensure Mr W had actually accepted the
offer, before she confirmed the new rate would start the next day. Considering everything, I
think it was reasonable for Mr W to think his acceptance had been recorded as part of the
call and the new rate would start the next day as Santander told him it would.
I understand Mr W has since told this service he accepted the offer via the email link. But he
also said he didnt recall completing an e-signature and he doesnt have a confirmation email
of the changes. While Mr Ws recent explanation varies from what Ive said above, I think the
reason Mr W doesnt recall what he had to do is because this wasnt how he remembered
accepting the decision. Santander has provided its contact notes that recorded Mr Ws initial
complaint. These notes confirm Mr W initially complained that he thought hed accepted the
offer during a phone call. I think this version is consistent with the recordings Ive listened to,
and Im satisfied Mr W more likely than not thought hed accepted the new rate during his
call with Santander on 2 August 2022.
Mr W received a letter shortly afterwards that alerted him he was actually on a standard
variable rate, and he contacted Santander promptly to advise it something had gone wrong. I
think Santander could have established there had been a misunderstanding during the call
on 2 August 2022 and at this point, they could have adjusted his account and put things right
fairly easily. As this didnt happen, Mr W remained on the standard variable for a few
months, and I understand hes now started the process of applying for a new fixed rate to
mitigate his losses. I think this will have caused him some stress and inconvenience, so I
think Santander should compensate him with £150 for that, as well as putting him back in the
position he would have been in if the error hadnt occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision, but Santander did not. 
Santander explained the email Mr W was sent clearly said what he needed to do to accept 
the offer. Santander said this was also clearly explained to him during the initial phone call 
that took place on 20 July 2022. Santander says Mr W confirmed he had accepted the offer 
already during the phone call on 3 August 2022, knowing he hadnt, and that Mr W was 
therefore responsible for the confusion caused. Santander says it never gave Mr W reason 
to believe he could accept the rate by telephone, so its not responsible if Mr W didnt accept 
the rate on time online. 
Ive thought about what Santanders said carefully, but I dont agree. While Mr W may have 
been told to accept the offer online during his initial call with Santander on 20 July 2022, and 
I agree he was sent an email link to do that, I dont think that mitigates what happened 
afterwards. Mr W made it clear when he spoke to Santander on 1 August 2022 that he intended to call 
back the next day with his decision  to confirm which product he was going to accept. At no 
point was Mr W told it wasnt possible for him to confirm his acceptance this way, even 
though it was clear that was his intention. And the email doesnt say email is the only way 
Mr W could accept the offer. So, I dont think its unreasonable Mr W thought he would be 
able to complete his acceptance over the phone as well as online. 
Mr W then called back the next day on 2 August 2022, as he said he would. Mr W decided 
what rate he was going to take and specifically explained that he already had an offer that 
was due to expire at midnight. The call handler acknowledged this and asked Mr W if he just 
wanted to accept the offer. Mr W confirmed he did. Again, at no point did the call handler say 
it wasnt possible to accept over the phone, or direct Mr W back to the email hed received. 
Given this, I dont think Mr W had any reason to believe he couldnt also accept the offer 
over the phone.
The call handler then put Mr W on hold, and based on what was said, I think its reasonable 
Mr W thought the call handler was arranging for the offer to be implemented at this time. The 
call handler then had an internal conversation with a colleague. Mr W wasnt party to this 
discussion so he didnt hear the colleagues suggestion that he should proceed by email. 
The colleague was direct, and it came across as though the original call handler became 
confused and seemed to have forgotten what was discussed with Mr W to some extent. 
When the call handler re-joined the call with Mr W, they asked him if hed accepted the offer. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the call handler was fully aware Mr W hadnt 
accepted the offer yet  this had been discussed in detail. So, I dont think its surprising 
Mr W interpreted the call handlers question to mean she was confirming he was happy to 
accept the rate, rather than meaning he had accepted it online already. Without doing any 
further checks the call handler confirmed the rate would start the next day and left Mr W with 
the impression everything was in place.
So, Ive considered Santanders response, but I had already considered the points its raised 
before issuing my provisional decision and having considered them again, I still think Mr W 
more likely than not understood that he had accepted the new rate during his call on 
2 August 2022. And, if he was unable to accept the offer this way, the call handlers on both 
1 and 2 August 2022 should have made this absolutely clear to him. But I dont think they 
did, so I think Santander should put things rights as Ive set out below.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should:
Adjust Mr Ws account to show that he accepted his offer for a five-year fixed rate 
product with a rate of 3.59% and no fee on 2 August 2022, to start the next day.
Calculate how much Mr W has overpaid to his mortgage from the date he moved 
onto a standard variable rate on 3 August 2022, to the date of settlement. 
Ask Mr W whether he wants any overpayments to remain on the account and reduce 
his contractual monthly payments going forward, or if he would like those funds 
returned to him.
Provide up to date account information to Mr W, including the outstanding balance on 
the account, and the cost of his contractual monthly payments going forward after the 
above adjustments have been made.
Pay Mr W £150 for the stress and inconvenience caused to him since he found out 
the rate hadnt been applied to his account.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Santander to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman