DRN-2423779
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) didnt fully explain the process of purchasing 
vouchers through Trustcard points (points) with her credit card.
What happened
Mrs A had a credit card through Lloyds through which she earnt points. In December 2019 
Mrs A rung Lloyds and asked to use her points to purchase vouchers.
Lloyds sent Mrs A £600 worth of vouchers which she spent. The following month, when 
Mrs A checked her credit card statement, she noted shed been charged £558 for the 
vouchers. Mrs A said she hadnt expected this and understood the vouchers were purchased 
entirely with her points, not simply at a discounted rate using her points. She complained, 
saying this hadnt been made clear to her during the call with Lloyds.
 
Lloyds were unable to locate the call recording to establish exactly what was said. 
However, it noted it sent Mrs A a letter in October 2019 explaining how the points worked 
and advising theyd soon expire. The letter explained that customers would receive vouchers 
at a discounted rate and gave an example of vouchers worth £50 costing £45. So, it didnt 
think it was responsible for Mrs A misunderstanding the process, and it didnt uphold the 
complaint. But it offered Mrs A £50 as a goodwill gesture, offered to cover the costs of her 
calls and waived interest on Mrs As credit card account for three months to allow her to pay 
off the debt. 
Mrs A remained unhappy and her representative, Ms I, brought her complaint to our service. 
Ms I told us Mrs As first language wasnt English and that she was elderly. Ms I said that 
because of this Mrs A would have relied on what the advisor told her when purchasing the 
vouchers, not on the letter she was sent. 
Our investigator ultimately felt the offer Lloyds had made was fair and didnt ask it to do 
anything further.
Mrs A disagreed. Ms I told us Mrs As daughter was also present when the call was made 
and she didnt think the advisor was clear about how the process worked either. Ms I 
also observed that it was convenient Lloyds couldnt find the call recording. As Mrs A didnt 
agree, the matters been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs As frustration that there is no recording of the call she made. But Lloyds 
doesnt record all calls. And Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that no call recording can 
be located on its systems and that Lloyds has taken reasonable steps to try to find it.
Mrs A has told us she didnt understand what she was purchasing. And I have no reason to 
doubt her account. But the key issue here isnt whether Mrs A understood, but whether 
Lloyds did enough to explain to Mrs A what she was purchasing. 
Its difficult to know how clear Lloyds representative was about the voucher process without 
the call recording. But where evidence is incomplete or conflicting my role is to determine 
whats most likely to have happened.
Lloyds have provided details of what its staff are required to tell customers who purchase 
vouchers during calls. This includes the cost of the vouchers (both in terms of points and 
money) and the fact that the monetary cost will be added to the credit card. So, this evidence 
supports Lloyds suggestion that the costs would have been explained to Mrs A. I appreciate 
Mrs A has now told us her daughter was also present during the call and she didnt think the 
matter was fully explained. But Im less persuaded by her testimony, as her presence only 
seems to have been mentioned once our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the Lloyds call handler failed to explain the monetary cost of 
the vouchers. Its a crucial part of the purchase process, so I think it would be very unlikely 
that this wouldnt have been mentioned at all.
Ive also noted Lloyds sent Mrs A a letter in October 2019 explaining how the process 
worked. Given the letter warned the points would soon expire and Mrs A rang Lloyds to 
spend her points shortly thereafter, I also think its likely Mrs A read this letter and 
understood at least some of the content. I think this letter also clearly explains how the 
points work. Ive thought about the fact English is not Mrs As first language. But ultimately, 
Ive not seen any evidence which suggest Lloyds knew or ought to have known Mrs A didnt 
understand the information it had provided.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here and I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman