DRN-4291887
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the way Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson 
Insurance handled their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R planned a road trip across Europe for Mr Rs birthday. Theyd planned the trip, 
which took place in July 2022, and included a cruise before returning home. Sadly, when 
they arrived at the villa theyd booked in Spain, Mr R became unwell and suffered a heart 
attack. He spent six days in hospital before being allowed to travel home. Mr and Mrs R, 
understandably, decided to abandon the remainder of their planned trip and made a claim 
for the costs incurred. 
Mr and Mrs R claimed for the medical expenses incurred for Mr Rs treatment,  
accommodation, the cost of the cruise and the repatriation costs to the UK. They said 
Astrenska should cover all associated costs. Mr R said he suffers with anxiety and that 
Astrenska has caused his mental health to suffer with the claims process. He also said 
Astrenska hasnt taken reasonable steps to validate the villa costs  which are currently still 
outstanding. Mr R would like those costs reimbursed. He explained Astrenska has only 
refunded one weeks worth of accommodation and so theres still one week outstanding. 
The total villa cost for the additional week was £2,600. Mr and Mrs R would also like 
reimbursement for the cost of the carer that accompanied them on the repatriation to the UK.
Astrenska said itd covered the majority of Mr and Mrs Rs claim, however, it acknowledged 
the outstanding villa cost of one week and the cost of the carer accompanying them home 
hadnt been paid. It said the invoice for the villa costs wasnt enough information for it to 
validate the claim. It also said it had concerns about those costs because Mr R had given 
conflicting information about how the villa was paid for. Astrenska also said it wouldnt cover 
the cost of the carer because it didnt think the invoice was credible. 
Our investigator agreed that Astrenska had considered the claim fairly. She said Astrenskas 
decision not to cover those particular costs was fair given the concerns it had. She said Mr 
and Mrs R would need to provide further information if they wanted the rest of their claim 
paid. Mr and Mrs R disagreed. In summary, they said the information Astrenska is asking for 
is unreasonable. They said it should cover the costs because they are genuine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for similar reasons already explained by our 
investigator. Mr and Mrs R have been asked to provide further evidence to support the 
claimed cost of the villa but have yet to provide that. Their argument in response to this was 
that Astrenska should make attempts to speak with the owner of the villa, but Im not 
persuaded by that. I say that because its for Mr and Mrs R to show they have a valid claim 
and not Astrenska. I also dont consider Astrenskas concerns about the validity of the 
invoice submitted to be unreasonable. Ill explain why.
Astrenskas obligations under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
means it should consider claims fairly and not reject them unreasonably. Ive thought about 
its responsibility under ICOBS whilst considering this complaint. 
The additional weeks accommodation is whats in dispute here. Astrenska requested 
an invoice so it could consider these costs, but it wasnt satisfied with what Mr and 
Mrs R provided. Astrenska said the invoice wasnt on headed paper and nor did it 
bear a company registration number. Astrenska said it would usually look to validate 
invoices using this information, which I think is reasonable. In the absence of this, it 
requested Mr and Mrs R provide the original invoice or booking details used to 
source the villa for the first weeks stay. But they were also unable to provide that 
information. Mr and Mrs R explained the villa belonged to a family friend and that it 
was booked by Mr Rs brother as a birthday gift for Mr and Mrs R. 
Astrenska asked Mr R how he paid for the additional stay at the villa, to which 
differing accounts were provided. Mr R originally said he paid for the villa in cash that 
he had with him. Then he explained hed withdrawn the cash from a foreign bank 
account. Astrenska asked to see evidence of this, however, I note no further 
evidence was provided to support Mr Rs testimony. Mr R said Astrenska 
misunderstood what hed said about paying for the villa, however, Im not persuaded 
thats the case. Im satisfied there have been different explanations given about how 
the villa was paid for and so I dont think Astrenskas treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly by 
requesting more evidence so it can validate that part of the claim. I note the policy 
does provide cover for costs like this in certain circumstances, however this is subject 
to a policy limit. I note Mr and Mrs R claim for enforced stay exceeds the limit here. 
However, it still remains unclear what Mr and Mrs Rs portion of the villa costs were 
and Astrenska is reasonably entitled to understand that before it can decide whether 
those costs are covered under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy.
Mr and Mrs R also claimed for carers costs to accompany them back to the UK. I 
can see theres provision of cover for these costs in certain circumstances, provided 
its deemed medically necessary. The issue here is similar to that which Ive outlined 
above, in that Astrenska hasnt been able to validate those costs, nor was there a 
discussion with the insurer about whether it was medically necessary. I also note Mrs 
R also accompanied Mr R home and so I think theyd need to explain why they 
needed another person to accompany them during the return trip. Astrenska said it 
would consider this part of the claim further, provided medical evidence showed it 
was medically necessary which I think is fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman