DRN-2109418
The complaint
Mr C complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading as Egg, 
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 2000, Mr C applied for a credit card online. At the same time he was sold PPI. The PPI 
protected his card repayments if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Mr C says the policy was mis-sold because he had a pre-existing illness at the time, and it 
wasnt drawn to his attention that this  or any connected illness  wouldnt be covered if he 
had to take time off work. He says he wouldnt have bought it if hed known.
Canada Square says Mr C never told it he had a pre-existing illness, as he didnt return a 
questionnaire it sent him when he first complained about the sale of the PPI in 2019. Our 
investigator didnt think that altered her view of the complaint  Mr C had told us about it and 
wed shared that information with Canada Square. She thought Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld. Canada Square doesnt agree so Im deciding this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint  Ill explain why. 
Mr C bought his PPI online. Part of the process required him to answer yes or no to him 
buying the PPI, and Im satisfied he did this, as the sale was online and largely automated. 
So I think Mr C agreed to buy the PPI.
Theres no evidence that Canada Square recommended the PPI to Mr C  so it didnt have 
to check it was suitable for him. It did however, have to make sure Mr C got enough 
information for him to make an informed choice about whether the PPI was suitable for him.
I dont think Canada Square did that. The policy Mr C bought didnt cover pre-existing 
illnesses or conditions, which Im satisfied is a significant limitation to the cover. Canada 
Square should have brought that to Mr Cs attention, and from the screenshots we know 
Canada Square used, this didnt happen. Mr C doesnt appear to have had to read any 
information before buying the PPI  even if hed had to tick a box to say hed read the terms 
and conditions of the policy theres nothing to show me Canada Square highlighted the 
limitation in any way.
Following on from this I then need to consider whether, if hed been aware of the limitation, 
Mr C would still have bought the policy. I dont think he would have. Mr C has told us about 
his condition and its a chronic illness that normally lasts for a long time. And its known to 
cause other health issues. I think Mr C is right when he says this illness is the most likely 
reason hed have to have time off work  even if that hasnt happened.
Canada Square says it sent Mr C a questionnaire which included a question about any pre-
existing illnesses  but he didnt return it. It thinks because of this its not fair for Mr C to now 
give this as a reason why he wouldnt have bought the PPI. I dont know why Mr C didnt 
return the questionnaire  but I dont think it makes a difference to my reaching a fair 
decision. Whats important is that Mr C has shared the information with us  and weve 
passed that on to Canada Square. Although we have no medical documentation, Mr C has 
been consistent in describing his condition, when it was diagnosed and what medication he 
takes. I see no reason to doubt his statement, and on balance Im satisfied he has the illness 
as he describes.
I think Mr C has lost out because of what Canada Square did wrong and it needs to put 
things right. 
Putting things right
Canada Square has told us this account was closed about ten years ago. 
Canada Square should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A. Canada Square should find out how much Mr C would have owed when he closed his 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Canada Square may also deduct any commission (and associated interest) its already 
refunded to Mr C.
B. Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C would 
have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when Canada Square works out what Mr C would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mr C paid more than enough to clear his balance, Canada Square should also 
pay simple interest on the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Mr C wouldve owed Canada Square something on his credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
D. Canada Square may believe HMRC requires it to take tax off any interest before its paid 
to Mr C. If it does that it must give Mr C a certificate of tax taken off if he asks for one.E. Canada Square should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Canada Square Operations Limited to 
pay Mr C the compensation described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman