DRN-3609700
The complaint
Mr A and Miss T complain Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly delayed their building warranty 
claim.
What happened
Mr A and Miss T brought a complaint to our service about a building warranty claim. That 
complaint was considered under a separate case, by one of our investigators. Our 
investigator issued her findings in February 2022.
To summarise, the original builder of the property undertook repairs to the gable wall, but it 
failed to complete a survey to demonstrate the defect had been rectified. Our investigator 
thought Amtrust should a) complete the survey, and b) if the defect hadnt been rectified, 
provide assistance in-line with section 3.2.3 of the policy. Both parties accepted her 
recommendations.
Mr A and Miss T went on to complain about the delays following our investigators findings, 
and in May 2022, Amtrust issued a final response about those delays. Amtrust accepted it 
should have been more proactive following our investigators recommendations and it 
offered £300 compensation.
Mr A remained unhappy with Amtrusts explanation of the delays, and he wanted to know the 
reasons for the delays. So, Mr A and Miss T referred their further complaint to our service, 
which is the complaint Im considering here. 
About two weeks after Amtrusts final response, the survey was completed and Amtrust 
accepted liability for rebuilding the gable wall.
Our investigator who considered the previous complaint, has also considered this complaint. 
She thought £300 compensation was fair for the impact of the delays. Mr A asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me.
Amtrust has confirmed the £300 compensation hasnt yet been paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed there were avoidable delays by Amtrust. So, what I need to decide here, is 
whether £300 is fair compensation for the impact of those delays. We dont make punitive 
awards. The compensation we award is to reflect the impact of a firms error on the 
complainants, bearing in mind their individual circumstances. 
I acknowledge Mr A would like to know the reasons for the delays between February and 
May 2022, and hes unhappy that Amtrust didnt respond to our investigators request for 
information. However, I dont need to know the reasons for the delays to decide whether 
£300 compensation fairly reflects the impact on Mr A and Miss T. 
Its enough that Amtrust has accepted there were avoidable delays between February and 
May 2022, and Im satisfied I have enough information to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and Miss T, but whilst I have seen they were caused frustration, 
and they had the inconvenience of having to chase, £300 compensation is in-line with the 
amount I would have awarded had Amtrust not made the offer. We havent been made 
aware of any circumstances that would lead me to increase the award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Amtrust Europe Limited should pay Mr A and Miss T £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman