DRN-3283067
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund £350 he says he lost 
as part of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr A sent £350 to a seller of an iPhone who was known to him 
through his employment. The seller said he had won the phone in a competition but had no 
use for it. 
However, the seller did not send the phone to Mr A, and neither did he provide him with a 
refund, but just gave a variety of excuses as to why he couldnt send the money back to him. 
Mr A complained to Monzo, who refused to provide him with a refund as it said it was a civil 
dispute between Mr A and the seller. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he wasnt persuaded the dispute was purely a civil 
matter given that the seller appeared to have always had the intention to defraud Mr A, such 
that it should fall within the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. 
Monzo disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo has signed up to the CRM Code, which was in force at the time Mr A paid the seller. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the CRM Code is 
quite explicit in that it doesnt apply to all APPs. In this regard, it stated:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Ive considered the evidence Mr A has provided, including the messages he sent to and 
received from the seller about the delivery of the item and attempts for his money to be 
refunded. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the seller is a legitimate supplier for 
goods. I acknowledge that the seller has continued to correspond with Mr A and was 
previously known to him through past employment. This is undoubtedly unusual in cases of 
fraud. 
But overall, considering what the seller has said and done, Im satisfied they set out to 
defraud Mr A from the outset. The seller has never been able to provide any evidence that 
the phone exists, and the explanations provided regarding the lack of delivery and refund are 
spurious at best. So, on balance, Im satisfied the seller does not appear to have had any 
legitimate intention, but rather showed an intent to defraud, and I do not consider this to be 
the type of civil matter excluded under the CRM Code. 
The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of APP scams, 
like the one Mr A has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Other than 
submitting that Mr As dispute is a civil matter, Monzo hasnt put forwards any other 
substantive reasons as to why any of the exceptions within the Code should apply. And 
having reviewed the evidence, Im not persuaded that any of the exceptions apply either. Ive 
not seen, for example, that an effective warning was provided that was ignored by Mr A. And 
neither do I think he had no reasonable basis for believing that the seller had genuine 
intentions, given that it was someone who he had previously worked with and had no reason 
(at that time) to distrust. 
Therefore, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Monzo to 
refund Mr A the money he sent to the scammer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to refund the 
£350 Mr A paid to the scammer, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date it was paid 
until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman