DRN-2239774
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that early surrender charges were applied by Zurich Assurance Ltd
(trading as Sterling) when they took two partial surrenders from their investment bond.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M started their bond in 2006 with an investment of £115,000. As is common, it
was split into 1000 separate policies. They added a further £60,000 in 2017, which was split
proportionately across the existing policies.
In 2019 they made two partial surrenders of £10,000. On each occasion early surrender
charges were applied, totalling just over £600. They complained to Sterling as theyd been
under the impression that the surrenders would be taken from the part of the investment
made in 2006, so outside the five-year period for which charges would apply.
Sterling explained that Mr and Mrs M had indicated that their surrender requests should be
made using a method that involved surrendering whole policies rather than taking
proportionate amounts from each of the 1000 policies. As whole policies had been
surrendered and these all included part of the 2017 investment, early surrender charges
applied proportionately, as the request had been made within five years of the second
tranche of investment.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator
thought that the complaint should be upheld. She felt Sterling hadnt done enough to make
clear the potential consequences of the different methods of surrender and how charges
couldve been avoided. She recommended that Sterling refund Mr and Mrs M the charges
and pay them £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Sterling disagreed, maintaining that it had acted correctly based on a valid instruction from
Mr and Mrs M. So, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. I said: 
When Mr and Mrs M completed the partial surrender request, they did so without taking any
independent advice. The form they completed offered three methods for taking partial
surrenders. They chose Method A, which the form explained involved the surrender of whole
policies within the bond. Method B involved surrendering equally from all the individual
policies.
The early surrender charges were applied, as noted, because of the surrender of whole
policies, which all included, in part, the 2017 investment. If Mr and Mrs B had selected
Method B, each £10,000 wouldve been taken proportionately from each policy and,
importantly for their situation, on a first in, first out basis, as set out in the terms of the bond.
This meant each proportionate surrender from each policy wouldve been taken from the
initial investment amount from 2006. So, no early surrender charges wouldve been applied.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M were frustrated to have incurred charges as a result of
them selecting the wrong (for their circumstances) method of partial surrender. But I dont
see that the error is the fault of Sterling. Upon receipt of the form, it wouldve had no reason
to think that Mr and Mrs M didnt actively want to use Method A. There are many variables
involved when surrendering investment bonds, including important tax issues, so there
wouldve been no reason for Sterling to think that Mr and Mrs M might had made a mistake.
So, there was no onus on Sterling, having received a clear, valid instruction, to contact Mr
and Mrs M and clarify the situation.
The investigator suggested that Sterling couldve provided more information on the partial
surrender request form. The form did explain how the different methods worked, but I dont
think it can reasonably be expected to have outlined every potential situation and related
consequences that might apply to every bondholder. Mr and Mrs M were aware there were
three options available to them. If they werent sure which was the correct one for their
circumstance, they could have sought advice.
I note they had previously made a partial surrender in 2009, which had led to early surrender
charges being applied, as at that time the bond was still within its initial five-year term. But
on that occasion their financial adviser was able to arrange to have the request amended
from the status of a partial surrender to that of a regular withdrawal, which wasnt subject to
any charges.
While I accept this was a slightly different situation, it nevertheless does mean that Mr and
Mrs M were on notice that taking money from their bond was not a straightforward process.
Therefore, I think that when they went to take money out of the bond again in 2019 and were
faced with a number of different options for doing so, its reasonable, as Ive noted, to expect
them to have double-checked before going ahead and giving an instruction.
Ultimately, Sterling received a valid, quite commonplace instruction that it had no reason to
question. As such, I dont think theres any basis on which I can reasonably find that it acted
incorrectly or misapplied its charges.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional findings. They said, in brief:
They were very disappointed with my provisional decision and felt Id missed what 
the complaint was about.
There was nothing on the form that highlighted the potential charges.
Id suggested they should have referred to an IFA but it was incumbent on Zurich to 
provide clear directions. 
Id given the impression that they shouldve known what Methods A and B meant.
Theyd like the complaint viewed from the point of view of a member of the public 
with no knowledge of financial services or Method A and B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld. 
I dont consider that Ive misinterpreted the complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs M feel the 
situation with charges shouldve been made clear on the form and that this wouldve been 
good customer service. But there was no requirement for Sterling to do so. And, as I noted in my provisional decision, it would be difficult  and potentially confusing  for it to try and 
provide information to suit every circumstance. 
I also dont feel its necessary when completing the form to have any specialist financial 
knowledge. I accept that theres no reason why Mr and Mrs M would have known how the 
different methods worked. But they didnt need to know. They were aware that there were 
multiple options and I think this ought reasonably to have prompted them to seek guidance 
and clarity from an IFA, or Sterling itself (although I accept Sterling wouldnt have been able 
to act in the capacity as a formal adviser). As I said previously, they were on notice that 
taking withdrawals from the bond wasnt a straightforward process as a result of their 
previous experience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman