DRN-2503663
The complaint
Mr T complains that Next Retail Limited breached his data by sending his NextPay account
number to his ex-partner. Mr T feels the compensation amount awarded by Next doesn't
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr Ts not happy with how Next handled the
complaint and believes it has shown discrimination against him.
What happened
Mr T holds a Next account. His ex-partner used to use the account to make purchases with
his permission. Mr T says that when they separated, he took responsibility for the amount
owed on the account.
In October 2020 Mr T called Next to ask for his NextPay account number to make a
payment. Nexts policy doesnt allow this information to be provided over the phone. Next
texted the account number to the mobile number registered on the account.
The mobile number on file belonged to his ex-partner. Mr T says that as a result of the data
breach, he suffered harassment and criminal damage to his property causing him to move
home. His ex-partner thought he was going against his word about taking ownership of the
amount owed on the account.
Mr T complained to Next about the data breach. Next apologised for its error and offered to
pay Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr T accepted the offer but was further unhappy with the length of time it took for the
payment to be made and because of how he says Next treated him during subsequent calls.
Mr T said that whilst trying to resolve his complaint with Next, he was told that it would only
correspond with him in writing and not by phone. Mr T says Next has shown discrimination
against him. It was aware he has difficulties reading but didnt take this into account.
Next issued its final response to the complaint in October 2020. It said the compensation
award was paid as agreed and Mr Ts bank had confirmed receipt of the funds with no
record of it being returned. A £50 gift card was also sent to Mr T.
Unhappy with Nexts response, Mr T brought his complaint to our service. He confirmed he
eventually received the £200 compensation but due to the ongoing service issues he doesnt
feel this adequately compensates him for the overall distress and inconvenience caused.
An investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Nexts offer
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and said that we werent able to investigate 
Mr Ts concerns about Nexts complaint handling because this isnt a regulated activity.
This matter was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
27 January 2021 and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. Next has admitted it got things 
wrong. So, the issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things right, 
including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Next should compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience caused
by incorrectly texting details of the account to his ex-partner. However, I also think its
important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers -
not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
When Mr T opened the account, his ex-partners contact details were registered. Mr T told
Next about his change of circumstances in August 2020. He provided some updated contact
details around that time (including his own mobile number). Mr T says he wasnt able to
make further contact, to update the rest of his details because he suffered a bereavement
and was hospitalised due to contracting Covid.
Whilst Mr T did provide his mobile number in August 2020, this wasnt updated on the
account. When he called Next in October 2020 to ask for his NextPay account number, Next
sent this via text to the registered mobile phone number.
Next accepted it got things wrong. It apologised for its error and offered to pay Mr T £200
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr T accepted the settlement offer
but due to his dissatisfaction with the complaints process he changed his mind.
When considering everything, I think the compensation of £200 that has been offered to 
Mr T is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. I say this because Next sent 
the account number to Mr Ts ex-partner who previously also used the account and so 
already had access to this information. So, there was a minimal security risk. Nevertheless, 
Next took reasonable steps to put additional security measures in place.
Mr Ts concern wasnt the security risk. He says that because his ex-partner thought he was
going against his word of taking ownership for the outstanding balance owed, he was subject
to harassment and criminal damage to his home, which required police involvement.
Ive considered all the things Mr T has said about how hes been impacted as a result of
Nexts error. I empathise with his circumstances, but I dont think Next could reasonably
foresee such consequences of its actions.
Our investigator said were unable to consider the complaint handling aspect of this
complaint. In this case we can look at Mr Ts complaint points that are ancillary to the data
breach.
Mr T raised the data breach on 6 October 2020. His details were updated, and additional
security measures were put in place.
On 8 October 2020 Next agreed to pay Mr T £200 compensation via bank transfer to settle
his complaint. Next has provided a faster payment receipt that shows it made payment the
following day as agreed. It says his receiving bank confirmed receipt of the funds and there
is nothing to suggest the payment was returned. So, I think its more likely Next did what it
said it would by sending the funds as agreed.
Mr T said he didnt receive the funds. It is unclear why. A few calls took place between Next
and Mr T to resolve matters. I think it was reasonable for Next to ask for evidence of bankstatements to prove non-receipt of the funds.
Next says that the evidence provided was incomplete. Mr T provided screen shots of parts of
his bank statement  not a full copy. Nevertheless, following the further calls that took place,
Next agreed to resend the funds. Mr T confirmed receipt of the funds on 17 November 2020.
I appreciate there was a delay before Mr T confirmed receipt of the funds but for the reasons
Ive explained, Im unable to say Next did anything wrong. 
When Mr T brought his complaint to our service, he said Next showed discrimination by only
allowing him to correspond in writing, despite it knowing about his reading difficulties. I can
see that calls continued to take place after between Mr T and Next after he brought his
complaint to our service, so Ive seen nothing to support that such marker was reported on
Mr Ts account or that Next refused to correspond over the phone.
When considering everything, I have decided that Next has been reasonable in its attempt to
put things right. So, I do not require it to increase Mr T's award for distress and
inconvenience
Neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, since I 
issued my provisional decision. I will now issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman