DRN-2508061
The complaint
Mr C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) rejected his complaint 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty seat on an expensive new 
car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Mr C acquired a new car costing £59,251 and it is to be expected that the car would be in 
prefect condition. However, within three months the drivers seat bulged and lost shape. The 
car had only covered 1,367 miles.
The dealers job card confirms that the drivers seat cover has a section of leather that 
wasnt tight. An inspection was carried out and the dealer was authorised to replace the 
base cover on the drivers seat due to a defect.
Under consumer law the supplier is allowed one attempt to remedy the problem, but this 
repair has not proved to be successful. 
I appreciate the manufacturer says there is a degree of tolerance in leather seats and they 
are subject to altering with use and temperature variations. However, the passenger seat 
hasnt suffered the same problem which would indicate that the drivers seat is faulty.
BMWFS has said that other similar models show the same effect on the seat and suggest 
that this indicates it is not a manufacturing fault. I dont follow that logic. Simply because a 
number of cars are faulty doesnt mean that none is faulty. It may be that other owners are 
more accepting, but that does not mean Mr C has to accept a faulty product.
Putting things right
In summary I consider the seat to be faulty and as a repair has not fixed the problem the 
seat should be replaced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
Arrange and pay for the replacement of the drivers seat in Mr Cs car with a new 
one.
While Mr Cs car is in for repair, the repairing dealership need to provide him with 
courtesy car to keep him mobile, if not BMWFS to refund a pro-rata portion of Mr Cs 
monthly payment to reflect the time he is without his car.
Pay Mr C £100.00 compensation for the loss of enjoyment and for the inconvenience 
by having to take the car back to the dealer after only three months ownership.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman