DRN-2773255
The complaint
Miss M complains about a case of mistaken identity which caused a complaint to be raised 
in error on her profile with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). She is also unhappy 
with the service she received from Nationwide when dealing with this issue. 
What happened
Miss M says that a complaint was raised with Nationwide with her name and with a 
telephone number which is not hers. She says the complaint was about a credit card that 
has nothing to do with her. She says she didn't raise a complaint and didn't ask anyone to do 
it on her behalf. She says she became aware of this complaint only because she received a 
letter in June 2020, advising her that her complaint had been noted. So, she called 
Nationwide to tell them that she has not made a complaint and questioned why she had 
received this letter. She says Nationwide told her that it must have been a mistake and that 
she will not receive any more correspondence regarding this. But she says about a week 
later she received a phone call from Nationwide and once again she had to explain that she 
had not raised a complaint. Following this she says £50 was credited into her account, and 
she received a letter from Nationwide saying that her Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) 
was not successful as Nationwide weren't able to verify her over the phone. 
Miss M says she has been calling and trying to resolve this issue for about three to four 
months with no success. She wanted Nationwide to investigate how someone was able to 
raise a complaint on her behalf and why Nationwide didnt verify this with her. She says 
every time she calls, she is promised that she will receive a call back or that a letter has 
been sent to her, and she says she has not received anything of that sort. She says she 
wants to be provided with a detailed explanation as nobody from Nationwide has been able 
to explain what has happened. She is unhappy that she never received any contact from the 
Nationwide case handler as promised, and she questions whether the case handler may 
have sent information originally intended for her to another individual. She says all of this 
has caused her an immense amount of stress.  
In January 2021, Nationwide wrote to Miss M. In this correspondence Nationwide apologised 
and explained that they made an administrative error which resulted in a complaint 
incorrectly being recorded in her name with her associated details such as her unique 
customer number. They said that they received a complaint from an individual who has the 
same name as Miss M and they mistakenly proceeded to log the complaint using the 
incorrect name and address. In this correspondence, Nationwide go on to explain that they 
have not disclosed any information about Miss M or her accounts to the other individual or 
any other member of Nationwide. In this letter Nationwide said that to recognise this error 
they are crediting Miss Ms account with £150 compensation, in addition to the £50 that they 
have already credited to her account originally in error. 
Miss M was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.
Miss M disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Miss M is unhappy because a complaint has been raised in error on her profile with 
Nationwide. The complaint was for another individual, but due to a similarity of names and 
due to an administrative error, it ended up being logged against her profile in error. I 
appreciate this was a big concern for her. To try and find out what has happened she did 
end up making many calls and had to write to Nationwide. This all started when she received 
the letter in June 2020, and it was not until January 2021 when Nationwide finally apologised 
and explained that they made an administrative error. 
Miss M is still unhappy with Nationwides response and she would like more details and 
clarification on what has happened, but the details she seeks relate to a third party, so they 
cant be released in order to protect the privacy of that individual. 
I know that Miss M questions whether the case handler sent her information to the third party 
when she was being told that she should have received some correspondence which she 
didnt. But Nationwide have confirmed to us that this was because when Miss M would 
contact them to speak to the case handler, he would contact the third party believing that 
person was the one who was trying to contact him. And I know that because of this Miss M 
was worried that the case handler may have been sending her personal information to the 
other individual. But Nationwide has told us that no personal information relating to Miss M 
has been sent to the third party. And I have not seen any evidence, from the information 
provided, to suggest that Nationwide shared any of Miss Ms personal details with any other 
party.
Miss M has said that she would like reassurances that this wont happen again. Nationwide 
have realised the error that has been made, paid compensation and apologised. And our 
service can only consider each complaint on its own merits and based on its own specific set 
of circumstances, so Ive looked at the impact this has had on Miss M, but it would not be 
reasonable for me to ask Nationwide to provide a guarantee against such future events. 
Overall, I think that Nationwide made an administrative mistake and I think they should have 
acted sooner to rectify the situation, as Miss M told them on several occasions that it was not 
her that raised the complaint. Miss M believes that the compensation awarded should be 
more substantial than £200, but where a mistake has been made, we can award an amount 
that we consider fair compensation to ensure that a customer hasnt lost out financially, and 
we may also consider awards to reflect distress and inconvenience that has been caused to 
Miss M due to Nationwides mistake. 
From what Ive seen I cant see that Miss M has been impacted financially. However, I know 
that this situation has caused Miss M an immense amount of stress. And while she has my sympathy, I believe the £200 offered by Nationwide is fair and reasonable to reflect the 
impact of this situation. So, I cant say that Nationwide needs to do any more in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman