DRN-3755365
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc defaulted his account and passed his overdraft over 
to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Santander, which had an arranged overdraft facility. In April 
2020, Santander wrote to Mr M to let him know that hed exceeded his overdraft limit. And 
they asked him to bring his account back within the overdraft limit.
Mr M didnt do this, and Santander followed up their request with a number of letters during 
May 2020. And they told Mr M that, if he didnt bring his account within the overdraft limit 
within 14-days, the overdraft facility would be removed. No payments were made, and, on 20 
June 2020, Mr M was advised that the overdraft limit had now been removed.
On 25 July 2020, Santander told Mr M that, if he didnt arrange to repay the overdraft, a 
default may be recorded. Mr M contacted Santander on 18 August 2020, and they agreed a 
£100 a month payment arrangement on 26 October 2020. And Mr M was asked to contact 
Santander on 26 November 2020 to confirm ongoing affordability. Which he did.
Mr M spoke to Santander again on 24 March 2021, confirming his affordability. However, on 
14 July 2021, Santander defaulted Mr Ms account and passed the remaining overdraft debt 
to a third-party debt collection agency.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to Santander. Santander said that, because Mr 
M hadnt contacted them on 26 May 2021  six months after his conversation on 26 
November 2020 - he was in breach of the agreement theyd made. So, they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. Mr M wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said that Mr M was asked to originally call Santander within six months of 
the agreement being set up on 26 October 2020. Which he did  on 24 March 2021. And the 
call notes from 24 March 2021 show that Santander checked Mr Ms affordability, and there 
was nothing in this call that indicated Mr M would need to go through this process again two 
months later.
As such, the investigator didnt think that Santander had treated Mr M fairly by defaulting the 
account and transferring the debt to a debt collection agency  there was a payment 
arrangement in place which Mr M was adhering to. So, the investigator said that Santander 
should recall the debt from the debt collection agency, remove the default from Mr Ms credit 
file, remove any interest or charges applied to Mr Ms account as a result of what had 
happened, and arrange a new payment arrangement with Mr M.
Mr M agreed with the investigator but thought that Santander should also write off the 
remaining debt as [Santander] dont deserve anymore of my hard earned money after this 
fiasco. Santander said theyd referred the investigators view to a specialist team, for them 
to respond. But no response has been received.
Because Santander havent responded, this matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The circumstances of Mr M exceeding his arranged overdraft, and having his overdraft limit 
removed, arent disputed. And Im satisfied that, after giving Mr M the appropriate notice, 
Santander acted reasonably by removing the overdraft.
As part of his comments, Mr M has raised the issue that Santander have been reporting 
missed payments on his account, when he hasnt been missing payments. While I havent 
seen a copy of Mr Ms credit file to show exactly what has been reported, Mr M exceeded his 
overdraft limit, and that limit was removed. As such, even though Mr M is making payments 
towards his outstanding overdraft balance, while a balance remains outstanding, Im 
satisfied that its reasonable for Santander to report this overlimit to the credit reference 
agencies.
Turning now to the conversations Mr M had with Santander. Santanders case notes show 
that Mr M contacted them about the situation on his account on 18 August 2020, where he 
explained that his income had been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. On 16 
September 2020 he completed an income and expenditure assessment and, as a result of 
this, on 26 October 2020, a £100 a month payment arrangement was put in place.
The case notes for 26 October 2020 say that cust needs to call us 26/11 to review. Which 
he did. Santander recorded there were no changes to Mr Ms circumstances, which allowed 
the payment arrangement to continue. The case notes for 26 November 2020 say that Mr M 
was advised to call back May 26th.
The next contact was on 24 March 2021, when Mr M completed another income and 
affordability assessment. Santander confirmed that the arrangement was still affordable, 
allowing it to continue. And the case notes show that Mr M was told to call back in case of 
any change. What he wasnt told was that he needed to call back at any specific point in 
time, nor was he told that he still needed to call Santander on 26 May 2021. Based on this 
conversation, Im satisfied that Mr M was of the understanding that he only needed to call 
Santander if there was a change in his circumstances.
However, because Mr M failed to call Santander on 26 May 2021, even though on the last 
conversation theyd had with him Santander made it clear that he only needed to call them if 
there was any change, they defaulted his account and transferred the outstanding balance to 
a debt collection agency. Given these circumstances, I dont think that Santander have 
treated Mr M fairly or reasonably, and I think they need to put things right.
Putting things right
When considering what remedy to direct Im guided by the principle that the purpose of any 
remedy should be, as far as possible, to put Mr M back in the position in which he wouldve 
been had Santander treated him fairly. In these circumstances, Mr M wouldnt have had a default registered against him, nor would any fees or charges associated with either the 
default or the transfer to the debt collection agency have been applied to his account.
However, Mr M would still have owed the same amount on his overdraft. Given this, I dont 
think its reasonable for Santander to write this amount off. So, Santander should:
remove the default from Mr Ms credit file;
recover the debt from the debt collection agency;
remove any fees and charges associated with the default or the transfer to the debt 
collection agency; and
contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan to repay any outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. And Santander UK Plc must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman