DRN-1200075
 
complaint
Mr J and Ms F say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998 with a further advance on their 
mortgage. The policy was paid for by a monthly premium. Although the loan was in joint 
names, the PPI policy provided cover solely for Mr J. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J and Ms F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr J and Ms Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive explained my reasons below. 
Ive first looked at whether Lloyds gained Mr J and Ms Fs consent and whether it made clear 
to them that the policy was optional. Lloyds has been able to provide the PPI application 
form that Mr J and Ms F completed and signed for the cover. The application was separate 
to the application form for the further advance. Ive seen nothing in any of the documentation 
that suggests Mr J and Ms F had to take the cover to get the further advance. So, on 
balance, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr J and Ms F aware that the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, 
many years later. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr J and Ms F. And whilst Mr J and Ms F thought 
that no advice was given, because it makes no difference to the outcome of the complaint, 
whilst placing a more searching test on Lloydss sale, I will consider this complaint as if 
advice was given. This meant Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was suitable for Mr J and Ms F. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think the recommendation was right for them. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the cover and I dont think he wouldve been affected by any of 
the main exclusions or limitations in place to make a successful claim, like an existing 
medical condition or unusual employment circumstance.
Whilst Mr Js initial sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months and 
Mr J and Ms F have told us they had no other means to rely on in that event, or if Mr 
J lost his job. The policy wouldve covered the full monthly repayment for the 
mortgage for up to 12 months in the event of unemployment or disability or 
accident/sickness. So as the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Js sick pay and as it couldve helped pay the repayments for a much longer period than Mr Js 
employers would have paid him at his full rate of sick pay and considering the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I 
think the PPI was still potentially useful to Mr J and Ms F. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable (Mr J and Ms F afforded the policy for some 
time).  
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr J and Ms 
F.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr J and Ms F, Lloyds also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more information 
wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI.
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Lloyds doesnt 
need to refund everything Mr J and Ms F paid for it. 
But Lloyds has already offered to give back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs 
to do anything more. 
If it hasn't already done so, Lloyds will make arrangements to pay Mr J and Ms F now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman