DRN-3324289
The complaint
Miss W complains about delays actioning a withdrawal of funds from a Junior ISA by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL).
What happened
Miss W held a Junior ISA with HL, but had also held a Child Trust Fund. On 10 February 
2021 Ms W was advised that holding a Junior ISA and Child Trust Fund was a breach of 
HMRC rules and accordingly the ISA would need to be terminated and the funds returned to 
Miss W. Instructions were given by Miss Ws representative to sell the assets held in the 
ISA. Miss Ws representative says that once the funds had settled the instruction to withdraw 
the proceeds of sale was not actioned by HL within the timelines set on their website. 
Assurances had also been given from HL that the withdrawal request would be processed 
within this timeline.
As funds still hadnt been received in the nominated bank account by 1 March, Miss Ws 
representative acting on her behalf, reinvested the cash in the ISA account into two funds. 
HL instructed sale of the funds on 5 March 2021, in accordance with their processes for 
refunding ineligible contributions. These funds settled on 10 March 201 and were withdrawn 
that day. Its said on Miss Ws behalf that she lost around £5000 as a result of the withdrawal 
process not being completed within the original timeframe. HL say no guarantees were given 
as to when the funds would be available for withdrawal and at no time had the process been 
cancelled. As this was an execution only account, the repurchase of shares was down to 
Miss W and she had already been advised that the ISA needed to be terminated.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought HL hadnt treated Miss W unfairly. 
Our investigator considered the terms and conditions of the account, which did not 
guarantee any timescales for facilitating withdrawals. And whilst reassurance was given over 
the phone that funds would be placed in the nominated account, our investigator thought that 
no guarantees on timelines had been given.
Miss W decided to reinvest whilst the withdrawal request was still being processed and when 
she was already aware that the ISA had to be terminated, so there was no error on HLs part 
in selling the funds. These were credited to the account in a reasonable period. So, HL 
wasnt responsible for Miss Ws losses.
Miss W disagrees with the view and maintained that HL failed to comply with its own 
timelines.
The matter has now come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain at the outset that we provide an independent dispute resolution 
service, we have no regulatory or disciplinary powers, which means we cant tell a business 
how to operate.
My starting point is the terms and conditions of the account, which stated there was no 
guaranteed period for processing a withdrawal after funds had settled. HL had to use 
reasonable endeavours to facilitate withdrawals in a timely manner. Ive seen screenshots of 
the information available when the withdrawal request was made online, which said that 
subject to the terms and conditions, payment would be made on the next working day and 
the payment would normally be available in the bank account by close of business. In my 
view the timeline wasnt guaranteed and HL have confirmed that the request was being 
processed, so I cant say that HL did anything wrong in processing the withdrawal request.
I have listened to the call on 17 February and the adviser initially said the withdrawals team 
would be transferring funds on 18 February. But at the end of the call the adviser said she 
hoped everything would go through soon. HL called Miss Ws representative on 24 February 
to apologise for the delay and said the withdrawal was being processed by the relevant 
team, but an exact timeframe wasnt given.
Its clear that Miss Ws representative was frustrated during the call on 24 February and its 
been said that he spent a lot of time on this matter. However, Im satisfied that an 
appropriate apology was given and as this is Miss Ws complaint, Im not able to 
compensate the representative for any time spent.
It was clear from the call on 24 February that the withdrawal application was still being 
processed and a reassurance was given that the transaction would take place. Rather than 
wait for the funds to be credited to the nominated account, Miss Ws representative then 
repurchased shares from the cash in the ISA. 
Im satisfied that HL then processed the sale of the shares, in accordance with the terms of 
the ISA, which was at this point was treated as void. So, I cant fairly say that HL did 
anything wrong here. As this was an execution only account, HL wasnt responsible for the 
decision to repurchase in the shares. Whilst I appreciate that the representative would have 
preferred to have been notified about the subsequent sale, there was no obligation on HL to 
give notice in these circumstances when theyd already advised that the ISA couldnt be held 
and that the original withdrawal request was being processed.
In my view, any losses sustained as a result of buying and selling of those shares were 
down to the actions of Miss Ws representative. Ive seen that after the settlement period 
funds were transferred to Miss Ws account.
Given these findings, I wont be asking HL to do anything more. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss W but for the reasons given, I am not upholding the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman