DRN-4133824
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback dispute 
about some cancelled flights.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs W bought some airline tickets for eleven people, from a travel 
agency. She paid a deposit out of her joint account with another bank, and paid the balance 
of £7,581 with her Barclays debit card.
The flight was due to depart in July 2020. But it was cancelled in or around April 2020 due to 
the covid pandemic. The airline told Mrs W that it didnt give refunds and that she should ask 
the travel agency for a refund; alternatively, the airline would give her a voucher to use 
towards another booking. Instead, Mrs W raised a chargeback dispute with Barclays for her 
card payment. She said a voucher wasnt good enough (and she did not trust the travel 
agency as it had told her that the flight had been rescheduled rather than cancelled, which 
she said was misleading).
Barclays opened a chargeback dispute in July, and paid a temporary credit of £7,581 into 
Mrs Ws current account. She promptly transferred that payment into an account with 
another bank, to keep the refund separate from her own money. She later used that refund 
to repay the ten other people she had been going to fly with.
The travel agency responded to the chargeback at the end of July, and Mrs W replied to that 
on 2 September. Then in May 2021  eight months later  Barclays closed the chargeback 
dispute, saying that the airline would not pay a refund to the travel agency. This delay has 
not been explained. And on 1 June 2021 Barclays re-debited the £7,581 refund from 
Mrs Ws account. As that account had had a zero balance, this left the account overdrawn by 
£7,581, entirely unexpectedly so far as Mrs W was concerned. She had to make repayments 
to that account, which did not return to a zero balance until February 2022. She said shed 
had to consolidate an existing loan in order to raise the money to repay the overdraft.
Mrs W complained that the re-debiting of her temporary refund had caused her financial 
difficulty because of the overdraft. She also complained about the outcome of her 
chargeback dispute, saying that she had been entitled to a full refund and that a voucher 
wasnt good enough. She added that her husbands chargeback dispute for the deposit, paid 
from their joint account with another bank, had been successful, and so she argued that this 
indicated that Barclays had not pursued her dispute properly.
Barclays paid Mrs W £30 for the delay in dealing with her dispute. But it did not uphold her 
complaint about the outcome. It told her that once it had shared with her the travel agencys 
response to the chargeback, she had had ten days in which to respond, and she hadnt 
replied in time. (In fact this wasnt the real reason, because the banks complaint handler had 
still reviewed Mrs Ws evidence even though it was late.) Barclays went on to say 
(accurately) that the travel agency had claimed that the airlines were not refunding people. 
So Barclays had concluded that the chargeback would not have succeeded.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mrs W brought this complaint to our service in October 
2021. Then in January 2022  after Mrs W had provided the travel agency with written 
evidence from the airline that the airline had paid a full refund to the travel agency in April 
2020  the travel agency paid her a refund of £6,206. This refund consisted of £7,581 minus 
£125 per passenger. Each deduction of £125 per passenger was said to consist of a £75 
administration fee and a £50 fee for the chargeback dispute. (This adds up to a shortfall of 
£1,375 from a full refund.) The £6,206 was paid into Mrs Ws overdrawn account, and so it 
was used to pay off most of the overdraft; the account still remained overdrawn for a month 
after that.
In December 2022 one of our investigators upheld this complaint. He referred to the travel 
agencys terms and conditions and concluded that a full refund would have been the 
appropriate remedy. He said that Barclays should have done more to pursue the chargeback 
dispute, and he thought that the chargeback would probably have succeeded. He said that 
as the travel agencys partial refund of £6,206 had been entirely swallowed up by the 
overdraft, Barclays should pay Mrs W a full refund of £7,581. He also recommended that any 
interest and charges incurred in relation to the overdraft should be refunded, and that 
interest on all of these refunds should be paid from the date the chargeback dispute was 
closed to the date of settlement. He said that any adverse information about the overdraft 
should be removed from Mrs Ws credit file.
Barclays did not accept that recommendation. It pointed out that Mrs W had transferred the 
temporary credit of £7,581 into another account she held with another bank, and it reminded 
the investigator that the travel agency had since paid Mrs W a full refund, minus £1,375 in 
fees. Barclays said that the fees were provided for in the travel agencys terms and 
conditions, and so the deduction of £1,375 was not the result of Barclays delay in 
processing the chargeback dispute or anything else that Barclays had done or failed to do. 
Barclays argued that Mrs W was not owed any more money, and that the investigators 
recommendation would result in her receiving nearly a double refund. Barclays also said that 
it had written to Mrs W on 18 May 2021 to tell her it was going to re-debit the temporary 
credit, and that her consolidation loan had been nothing to do with her overdraft and so it 
was not relevant to this complaint. Finally, Barclays provided evidence that no interest or 
charges had been incurred as a result of the overdraft.
The investigator shared that response with Mrs W, who pointed out that even if Barclays was 
right then she was still £1,375 out of pocket. She emphasised that Barclays had taken ten 
months to close her chargeback dispute, which she described as unacceptable. She said 
that the travel agency had failed to comply with its own terms and conditions by refusing to 
refund her and lying about why; she said Barclays should have discovered this.
The investigator did not change his original recommendations. He also pointed out that the 
consolidation loan approval letter specifically said on page 7 that the purpose of the loan 
was to repay Mrs Ws overdraft (along with one other loan). 
Because no agreement could be reached, this case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to still uphold this complaint, but to reduce the compensation 
recommended by my colleague.I accept that some of the evidence Mrs W has relied on in support of her complaint (some 
emails from the airline) were provided long after the chargeback dispute was closed, and so 
could never have been provided in time for the bank to use it to get her money back. 
Nevertheless, I still agree with the investigator that Mrs W did provide enough evidence for a 
chargeback to potentially succeed. That is to say, I cannot guarantee that a chargeback 
certainly would have succeeded, but I think that the bank ought to have pursued it further 
than it did. That is because I think that the travel agency was liable to refund Mrs W whether 
or not it had already been refunded, or expected to be refunded, by the airline. That was a 
separate matter between the travel agency and the airline, and should not have been 
Mrs Ws problem.
Having reached that conclusion, I now have to consider what Barclays needs to do to fairly 
resolve this complaint. And I am afraid that I do not agree that it would have to pay Mrs W 
£7,581. That is because she has already had a refund of £6,206 from the travel agency, and 
so to give her a full refund in addition to that would be what is known as double recovery. In 
other words, she would get a refund of about 182% of what she paid on her Barclays debit 
card.
I understand the argument that the £6,206 was swallowed up by the overdraft, but I dont 
think that is any reason to say it doesnt count as a refund. It doesnt change the fact that it 
was a refund from the travel agency, nor did it prevent Mrs W from refunding the other 
passengers what they had paid her for their tickets (which she did with the money Barclays 
put in her account in 2020). So the shortfall is £1,375, and if I required Barclays to refund 
more than that, then that would be a refund of more than she paid.
As Ive said, the shortfall is made up of administration fees, including fees for dealing with 
the chargeback, which as far as Im aware is not allowed under the chargeback rules. 
Barclays argued that these fees might be authorised under the travel agencys terms and 
conditions, but I have read them and I cant find anything which says that. (I did find a clause 
which said the deposit is non-refundable, but as the deposit was paid separately and was 
the subject of another chargeback dispute with a different bank, I dont think that the travel 
agency could have relied on it in the Barclays dispute.) So Im satisfied that the travel 
agency was liable to pay a full refund. I therefore propose to require Barclays to pay Mrs W 
£1,375, plus simple interest on that amount at the rate of eight percent a year from 1 June 
2021 (the date Barclays re-debited the temporary refund) to the date of settlement.
The consolidation loan certainly was for the purpose of repaying the overdraft (and also one 
existing loan which was nothing to do with this case). But as that was a zero-interest loan, it 
did not increase Mrs Ws debt. And I have verified that there were no interest or charges on 
her current account as a result of the overdraft itself. So while the overdraft must have come 
as a shock to her, there was no consequential financial loss (other than the reversal of the 
£7,581 credit to her account, which I have dealt with already).
I say that the overdraft must have come to Mrs W as a shock because Barclays letter to her 
dated 18 May 2021, telling her that her chargeback claim was unsuccessful, did not mention 
that the temporary refund to her account ten months earlier would now be re-debited. She 
was told at the beginning of the process that the refund was temporary and that it would be 
re-debited if she lost, but after ten months it might have been helpful to remind her of that. 
That would not have prevented the account from becoming overdrawn, but it would at least 
have been better to warn her before the money was taken from her account, instead of 
leaving her to find out about it afterwards. I provisionally think that £200 would be fair 
compensation for that.More importantly, there wouldnt have been a re-debiting and an overdraft in the first place if 
the chargeback had been upheld. So I intend to direct Barclays to remove the overdraft from 
Mrs Ws credit file.
I dont propose to award any further compensation for the delay in resolving the claim, 
because Mrs W accepted the banks offer of £30 at the time.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties by the deadline below, I intend to order Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mrs W £1,375, with simple interest on that sum at eight percent a year from 1 
June 2021 to the date of settlement;
Pay Mrs W a further £200,
Arrange to remove all adverse data about the overdraft from Mrs Ws credit file.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So there is no reason for me to depart from 
my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mrs W £1,375, with simple interest on that sum at eight percent a year from 1 
June 2021 to the date of settlement;
Pay Mrs W a further £200,
Arrange to remove all adverse data about the overdraft from Mrs Ws credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman