DRN-4082742
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused their application to port their 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs H would like Santander to compensate them for the cost of the early 
repayment charge (ERC), the arrangement fees for the new mortgage and the difference in 
interest they will lose coming in total to £11,808.47
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Santander taken out in July 2020 for a term of 34 years 
on a repayment basis for a loan of £149,786. and in November 2021 approached Santander 
about additional borrowing for a buy to let investment. They were initially told that Santander 
couldnt consider the application as Mrs H had been on furlough for the previous three 
months. Mr and Mrs H again contacted Santander in January 2022 to borrow £80,000 and 
were told that they could be considered for borrowing of £90,000. But later they decided that 
it made sense to buy a larger property. 
So, they decided to sell, buy a property, and increase their mortgage. Mr and Mrs H got a 
decision in principle for a property that fell through for £213,544 and when they offered on 
another property were told a week later that they could only borrow £65,000. Santander told 
them that its lending criteria had changed, and this affected their application as Mrs H had 
been on furlough during the previous twelve months. Mr and Mrs H sourced a mortgage from 
another lender for £175,000 and the mortgage with Santander was redeemed in June 2022.
Santander say that its decision was based on its current lending policy which classed Mrs H 
as self-employed and as her income had been affected by the Coronavirus Pandemic during 
the last 12 months this meant her income couldnt be included in assessing affordability.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that Mrs H 
was correctly classified as self-employed under Santanders criteria and, as she availed of 
government financial support in the twelve months prior to the application. her income wasnt 
considered by Santander under its lending policy. Mr and Mrs H disagree and asked for a 
review.
My provisional findings
During my investigation I considered further evidence and as my conclusion was based on 
different reasons than our investigator, although I came to the same conclusion, I issued a 
Provision Decision which I set out below:
 There are several issues here and I consider the most crucial ones are whether it was fair 
to refuse the application in March on the grounds stated and whether Mr and Mrs H were 
offered the alternative of a like for like porting of their mortgage to another property.
Mr and Mrs Hs application in March was made by phone and Ive had access to those calls. 
On 21 March Mr H phoned an adviser. He said they were downsizing, selling their own 
property for £420,000 and buying a property at £345,000 but wanted to port over the 
mortgage of about £143,500. Mr H indicated that the new property was a doer-upper and in 
the future might want to borrow more money. They had offers accepted on the sale and the 
purchase. The initial adviser who was processing Level 1 of the application assured Mr H 
that as a porting application with the same balance that Santander didnt need to do an 
affordability assessment and the adviser was just checking eligibility. The adviser asked him 
whether they had received any government assistance under any Covid scheme within the 
last three months and Mr M told him that he was a company director of a company he 
owned, and his company hadnt. At handover to Level 2 the original adviser confirmed that 
there were no Covid impacts.
Mr H was then transferred to a relationship manager to complete Level 2 of the application. 
This adviser said she would take details of their income and do a credit check. Mr H 
confirmed they just wanted a straight port. Mr H said he was a company director and Mrs H 
was part time office manager. Mr H said that he believed that he owned the company 100% 
and was asked about furlough payments in the last 12 months. I note that Mr H has since 
told us that Mrs H is a 9% owner. Mr H said that the business had been affected by Covid 
and the fall in demand. He said that he had a bounce back loan, paying back £500 per 
month but that the business had returned to pre-Covid trading levels. The adviser then said 
that because of the impact of Covid on the business that she would have to do an 
affordability assessment. 
Mr H was asked about Mr Hs role and that she was the office manager. Mrs Hs income was 
£12,500 from employment with dividend income of £9,000. Mr Hs salary was £12,500 with 
dividends in the last couple of financial years (20/21) of £15,000. As Mrs H was receiving 
dividends Santander classed her as a shareholder. There was a good deal of complex 
information being passed between the advisers and Mr H. The initial adviser said that 
affordability wasnt an issue, but the amount offered to Mr H was reduced substantially 
because of affordability. That must have been puzzling to Mr H.
As I understand it the initial adviser was looking at a straightforward port of Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage in line with the Santanders Loyal Movers Same or Less Scheme (LMSLS) which 
facilitates like for like porting. That scheme looks to be a scheme intended to meet the 
MCOB regulations and in particular MCOB 11.6.3 which says that in considering a new 
mortgage, Santander doesnt have to consider affordability in certain circumstances such as 
existed in this application where there was no additional borrowing or material change to the 
mortgage contract. But there are other reasons that the lender can refuse the mortgage. 
Although this wasnt put to Mr and Mrs H at the time, the LMSLS, which allows for like for 
like porting, requires the Loan to Value (LTV) on the new property to be within two 
percentage points of the old property. Mr and Mrs H were downsizing. At the time of their 
application, Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage balance of £143,544.13. The property was selling 
for £420,000 which meant the LTV was 34.18%. The new property was £345,000 and if they 
carried over the same mortgage balance the LTV would be 41.61%. In percentage terms 
that was substantially outside the two percentage points allowed by Santander and therefore 
the application didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. Mr and Mrs Hs ability to port 
according to Part 9 of their mortgage offer required them to meet Santanders lending criteria 
and they didnt. It does seem to me that under the scheme, Santander could have lent Mr 
and Mrs H up to £124,821 which is 36.18% of the purchase price, but this wasnt discussed, 
rather than the £69,000 that Santander said it might have been able to lend at Level 2. 
Even if Mr and Mrs H didnt qualify for the LMSLS they could apply in the ordinary way in 
which case Santander would look at the affordability in the normal way. Thats what appears 
to have occurred at Level 2. The reason the application was refused on affordability is because Mrs H who was an employee and, I understand, was a 9% shareholder in Mr and 
Mrs Hs company and part of whose income was dividend income was classified by 
Santander as self-employed. Santanders policy on this is that it treats directors of limited 
companies with more than 20% shareholding in a company as self-employed. Mrs H didnt 
have a 20% shareholding, but the policy says, if joint mortgage applicants are directors of 
the same company, their combined shareholding should be used to determine whether the 
20% threshold has been reached. 
So, Santander treated Mrs H as self-employed and then because she had received a 
furlough payment in the twelve months prior to the date of the application, it was unable to 
use Mrs Hs income under its lending criteria. Should it have treated Mrs H as self-
employed? Mrs H wasnt a director of the company but from the information supplied by Mr 
H, a substantial part of her income was in dividend payments. Im not sure why Santander 
use the word director in the policy rather than shareholder. The intention is clearly directed to 
shareholders in a company whose income is related to the economic health of the company 
as was Mrs H. I believe that it was within the spirit of Santanders policy that Mrs H was 
classed as self-employed, and I dont consider that it was unreasonable for Santander to do 
so.
Santanders intention appears to be that where an applicant, in this case Mrs H, falls into 
their definition of self-employed and got government support in the 12 months prior to the 
application, her income couldnt be used although it presumably could be used after the 12-
month period lapsed but not at this time. The company had government support and she had 
received a furlough payment in the prior 12 months. I also appreciate that the business was 
one that was impaired by the Covid lockdown and would be one that would benefit by the 
opening of the economy and the housing market. Santander set a criteria that although it 
looked to the past was not that historic as it related to the performance of the business in the 
last 12 months. I appreciate that the business prospects might well change in the following 
12 months, but I cant find Santander at fault if it sets its lending criteria based on the recent 
performance of the business in the last 12 months. During that period the business was 
unable to maintain an employee in her full income throughout that period. So, I dont find that 
Santanders treatment of Mrs Hs income was unreasonable.
So, my view is that it was reasonable for Santander not to allow Mr and Mrs H to benefit 
under its LMSLS and that under Santanders lending criteria at the time, Mr and Mrs Hs 
allowable income didnt support the mortgage that they wanted. So, I dont consider that 
Santander did anything wrong. It does seem to me that under the LMSLS that they should 
have got access to a mortgage of £124,821 but this wasnt offered to them. But even if it 
were offered to them I would have thought that they wouldnt have accepted it.  Given that 
the new purchase was a doer-upper they needed all the money that they applied for. The 
fact that they applied for and got a mortgage of £175,000 indicates that a smaller mortgage 
than they applied for wouldnt have been acceptable to them. So, having considered the 
matter at length I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I issued this Provisional Decision 
and indicated that I would consider any further submissions received from Mr and Mrs H or 
from Santander before issuing my Final Decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After issuing my Provisional Decision I said that I would consider any further submissions or evidence I received from Mr and Mrs H or from Santander. Santander said that it had 
nothing further to add. I didnt receive a further submission from Mr and Mrs H. Ive 
considered the evidence on file again and I believe, for the reasons set out in detail in it, that 
my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint and, so, I cant fairly 
uphold it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman