DRN-4187340
The complaint
Mr G and Ms M complain ERGO Travel Insurance Services LTD unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms M took out a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by ERGO. They 
were due to travel abroad and had pre-booked their flights and accommodation. The day 
before they were due to fly, they were informed by the airline that their flight had been 
cancelled due to a strike. And they received a refund of their flight costs. Mr G and Ms M 
then booked another flight with a different airline, and this was an indirect flight. 
On the day of departure, Mr G and Ms M found the first part of their connecting flight had 
been delayed by almost two hours. This meant they would miss the second part of the flight. 
And so, they decided to abandon their trip.
Mr G and Ms M said they requested refunds for all of their flights from the airlines. They 
cancelled their accommodation booking and received a partial refund equivalent to around 
40% of the amount theyd paid. So, they made a claim against their policy for the remainder 
of their accommodation costs.
The relevant policy terms and conditions in this case are as follows. 
Travel delay and abandonment 
 in the event of your unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 hours from your 
original scheduled departure time from your first departure point on your outward 
journey as a result of:
1. Adverse weather conditions (but not those defined as a Catastrophe). 
2. Strike or Industrial Action. 
3. Mechanical breakdown of the Public Transport on which You are booked to 
travel.
4. Cancellation by the transport provider of your scheduled pre-booked 
international flight, ferry, train or coach.
Additional conditions applying to this section 
1. Travel delay benefit is intended to provide compensation if You are delayed at 
Your point of departure and is only applicable if You have travelled there and 
checked-in. If You have not travelled to Your departure point You will not be covered 
even if You have checked-in online. 
Cancellation 
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits, 
following necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of: 
1. The death, Bodily Injury or Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You, 
Your Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom You had 
arranged to stay; or 
2. Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for 
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk 
of the Courts Office; or 
3. You or Your travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and Your or their authorised leave being 
cancelled due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of Your 
trip; or 
4.You or Your travelling companion being instructed to stay at Home (within 7 days of 
Your departure date) by a relevant authority due to severe damage to Your or their 
Home or place of business in the United Kingdom caused by serious fire, explosion, 
storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or 
5. Your involuntary redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse, 
civil partner or cohabiting partner, notified after the purchase of this Policy or after the 
trip was booked, whichever is later.". 
There was a delay in ERGO providing Mr G and Ms M an answer on their claim. And once it 
reached an outcome, the claim was declined. 
Mr G and Ms M complained to ERGO. The insurer acknowledged and apologised for the 
delay in assessing the claim. It said in the circumstances, there was no cover for 
abandonment, or cancellation under the policy.  And so it thought the claim had been 
declined correctly.
Unhappy with the response, Mr G and Ms M brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think the claim had 
been unfairly declined. 
ERGO made no comment on the investigators view. However, Mr G and Ms M disagreed. 
They said they thought it was unfair that ERGO had declined their claim based on the delay 
of their new flights. They said this was something they booked to try to mitigate having to 
cancel their holiday. And the claim was actually about their original flights, which were 
cancelled. They asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say ERGO has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I understand the points Mr G and Ms M make, in that they tried their best to avoid having to 
cancel their holiday, by booking the new flights. And so, they would like ERGO to assess the claim based on the cancellation of those original flights, and not the delay of the new flights. 
Ive thought carefully about this. But ultimately, when the original flight was cancelled, Mr G 
and Ms M had the option to cancel their holiday and make a claim, or, they could attempt to 
arrange alternative transport, and to continue with the holiday, which is what they tried to do. 
I have to be fair to both parties when considering a claim of this type.  I note Mr G and Ms M 
tried to mitigate their loss by booking a new flight. However, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to direct the insurer to assess the claim based on the original flight cancellation, as the 
circumstances changed once Mr G and Ms M booked the new flight. Had there not been a 
delay with the first part of the new flight, Mr G and Ms M would have been able to go on their 
holiday and there would no longer have been a cause for cancellation of their pre-booked 
accommodation. 
I think its reasonable for the insurer to look only at what actually happened when assessing 
a claim, and to assess the events based on the order in which they occurred. And in this 
case, Im satisfied the cause of the abandonment of the holiday was the delay of the new 
flight. Based on the policy terms, the circumstances of that delay were not covered, as the 
delay was around two hours, and the policy cover stipulates it will pay claims for delays of at 
least 12 hours. And because of this, I think the claim has been fairly declined. 
Mr G and Ms M have asked, had they not attempted to reach their holiday destination by 
booking the new, indirect flight; whether their claim would have been paid based on their 
original flights being cancelled. Its not my role to assess a claim and this would be up to the 
insurer. However, I dont think such a claim would have been successful. I say this because 
based on the policys cancellation terms, cancellation of a flight due to strike action is not 
listed as being covered. And, the original flight was cancelled before Mr G and Ms M had 
travelled to the airport to start their trip, so I dont think the cover for abandonment would 
have applied. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against ERGO Travel Insurance Services LTD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman