DRN-3147552
The complaint
Mr H feels that Klarna Bank AB (Publ) has treated him unfairly with regard a running account 
credit agreement and his credit file.
What happened
Mr H entered a running account credit agreement in February 2021. In March 2021 he made 
a purchase using this account for almost a thousand pounds. Mr H says he thought a 
repayment method was set up for this borrowing at the time of entering the agreement. 
However no payments were made in March, April, and May 2021, so Klarna logged these 
missed payments on his credit file. In June Mr H discovered this and complained. Klarna 
waived the late fees applied as a gesture of goodwill but felt the late payment markers on his 
credit file should remain as that is what happened. Mr H says this is unfair. He says that he 
needs to re-mortgage, and these late payment markers are impacting this. So he 
complained here.
The investigator felt that Klarna hadnt done anything wrong. Mr H remains unhappy, so this 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute here. Mr H says he entered the agreement with Klarna. He 
doesnt dispute not paying during the period in question. And having considered the 
statements I can see no payment was made in the months in question. So considering 
everything in the round Im satisfied that the payments werent made. So it follows that 
Klarna could apply late payment markers to his credit file. But the question here is whether 
that would be fair or not.
Mr H says that in credit agreements hes seen before the repayment method is set up when 
the credit is taken out. And for many agreements that is the case. However this running 
account agreement isnt the same as many fixed sum loan agreements. Its a running 
account agreement which is more like a credit card type agreement where there may be 
months where nothing needs to be paid because there is no outstanding balance. And other 
months there might be a need to pay significant sums because there is significant borrowing. 
It seems clear from Klarnas conversations with Mr H that he hadnt understood this when he 
took out the borrowing.
So Ive considered what happened from when he took out the borrowing. I can see a 
welcome letter was sent in February 2021 which included a copy of the agreement and 
explanation of how to pay. I can see statements being sent to Mr H which showed his 
purchase, no payments being shown each month to the outstanding balance and the 
outstanding balance not going down. Klarna has also pointed to text messages that it sent 
and other correspondence.
Having considered everything in the round Im satisfied that whether or not Klarna made 
clear the need to set up repayments at the point of sale it did enough after the agreement 
was arranged to tell Mr H how to pay and when to pay. So I dont think it is at fault for him 
not paying. And accordingly I think it is fair for these late payment markers to remain on his 
credit file.
Mr H has said I just dont understand how its acting fairly. How is damaging someones 
credit rating to the point other lenders take away your credit and it jeopardises your home 
mortgage situation over a few late payments of barely any actual value acting fairly? The 
simple answer is that Klarna are obliged to report Mr Hs payment history on his credit file. 
And it is obliged to do so accurately and fairly. And Mr H didnt pay anything during the 
period in question despite a number of contacts from Klarna telling him how to pay and that 
he needed to pay. The missed payments are not Klarnas fault. And it has accurately 
recorded what happened.
Mr H says the sale was confusing and misleading. Im not necessarily persuaded by this. 
However even if that was the case Im satisfied Klarna has done enough since the sale to 
make clear the need to pay and how to pay. Its worth remembering that Mr H spent nearly a 
thousand pounds and didnt pay anything for months whilst receiving correspondence from 
Klarna explaining the need to pay and how to pay.
In summary I am not persuaded by any of Mr Hs arguments on this matter. So in short this 
complaint does not succeed. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr H. But I dont 
think Klarna has to do anything further as it hasnt done anything wrong. It repeatedly said to 
Mr H he needed to pay over an extended period. It has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Klarna Bank AB (Publ). 
It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman