DRN-2431115
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that, in respect of an all risks commercial block policy claim for water 
damage, AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay his travel expenses.
What happened
Mr K is the owner of a flat in a block, which he lets out. In March 2020 he made a claim to 
AXA as water damage had been discovered in the bathroom particularly affecting the floor. 
He was asked to obtain estimates for repair and also to supply photos of the damage. AXA 
accepted the claim and agreed that Mr K could instruct his contractors to carry out the work. 
He asked about alternative accommodation for his tenants and it was agreed that this would 
be paid. As he lives a long way away from the property he also asked about his travel and 
subsistence expenses. AXA said these wouldnt be covered under the policy, though if he 
had a managing agent who dealt with the property their expenses would be considered. 
The repairs went ahead and Mr K presented details of his contractors and hotel costs, and 
asked for £310 for his travel and subsistence expenses. He argued that he would have had 
to otherwise employ a project manager. AXA paid the contractors and hotel costs but not 
Mr Ks personal expenses. It said that such a claim didnt need a project manager and 
reiterated that the policy didnt cover such expenses.
On referral to this service our investigator said that AXA had acted reasonably and that she 
couldnt ask it to pay Mr Ks expenses.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy here is an all risks policy taken out by the managing agents with Mr K being a 
beneficiary, as a flat owner. This means that any damage to the building is covered unless 
otherwise excluded. The policy allows for professional fees where reasonably and 
necessarily incurred. This was a relatively small claim involving just one contractor, 
instructed by Mr K. I think AXA took the reasonable decision that a project manager wasnt 
necessary.
As a part of making an insurance claim, the policyholder has to be prepared to be available 
for such things as site inspections. This something any policyholder would have to do. But 
the insurer wouldnt normally pay travel or food expenses. Mr K has argued that he had to be 
there to oversee the contractor, and examine the work on completion. And I note that he 
lives some considerable distance from his property. If he had instructed agents to manage 
the property he could have asked for those fees to be considered and there is cover in the 
policy for this. He asked AXA before the job started if it would pay his expenses and it said 
no. And whilst agents fees would likely have been more expensive, he didnt instruct them, 
and as Ive said theres no provision in the policy for substituting personal expenses instead. 
I bear in mind that Mr K instructed the contractors so should have been confident that they 
would carry out the work properly.
So as theres no cover in the policy for such personal expenses, I cant ask AXA to pay 
them. Im satisfied that it paid all the other costs of the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman