DRN-3549154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) unfairly declined 
their mortgage porting application due to a temporary change in policy. They had no option 
but to redeem their mortgage and look elsewhere to fund their new property purchase. 
Mr and Mrs D complain that an early repayment charge was unfairly applied in the 
circumstances. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a five-year fixed rate deal with Clydesdale which expired on 
30 April 2024. Around October 2020 they contacted Clydesdale to discuss porting their 
existing product to a new property along with applying to borrow further funds. They received 
an agreement in principle on 7 October 2020. A full mortgage application appointment was 
arranged for 24 October 2020.
The application was declined due affordability criteria not being met. The advisor explained 
that due to a change in lending criteria imposed during the Covid-19 pandemic, Clydesdale 
wasnt accepting overtime as guaranteed income. The application was submitted for 
underwriting along with supporting income evidence, but the decision remained unchanged. 
As such, to proceed with their purchase Mr and Mrs D approached a different lender and 
successfully obtained a new mortgage. They redeemed their mortgage with Clydesdale. An 
early repayment charge (ERC) was applied.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Clydesdale about the declined application. Theyre unhappy 
with the service provided for several reasons. But essentially, theyre unhappy that 
Clydesdale didnt tell them sooner that its criteria had changed. They say Clydesdale didnt 
fairly consider what it knew about Mr Ds consistent overtime payments and when the 
temporary policy ceased a couple of months later, it didnt contact them to let them know.
Clydesdale answered the complaint and upheld it in part. Whilst it did agree its customer 
service standards fell short, it didnt agree the application was unfairly declined or an ERC 
was wrongly applied in the circumstances. No compensation was offered. Unhappy with 
Clydesdales response, Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and thought Clydesdale should compensate 
Mr and Mrs D for the customer service issues identified in its final response letter. He didnt 
think the ERC should be refunded in the circumstances. Clydesdale agreed. Mr and Mrs D 
didnt and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in light of
the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Whilst a number of issues have been raised about how the mortgage application meeting 
went, the main issue here is the declined application and as Mr and Mrs D state, the lack of 
transparency from Clydesdale about its lending criteria during the process. 
Mr and Mrs Ds 2019 offer sets out the terms of their mortgage. Those terms state that their 
mortgage can be ported to another property. However, their application would need to meet
Clydesdales lending criteria and conditions at that time.
Those terms also state that if the mortgage is redeemed before the end of the fixed term, 
Mr and Mrs D would incur an ERC. Theyd be charged 5% on the amount repaid until 
30 April 2021, reducing by 1% each year thereafter until the end of the fixed term. 
Mr and Mrs Ds porting application involved borrowing more money. So, Clydesdale needed 
to consider the affordability of the new mortgage  as stated in the terms.
Lenders can use their commercial judgement about to whom to lend and on what basis if
they act fairly and reasonably. Lending policies are something which each lender puts in
place to ensure risks remain manageable, and they are allowed a broad discretion 
provided they exercise it fairly and in line with the rules  in deciding whether or not to lend.
Clydesdale declined Mr and Mrs Ds application because it didnt meet affordability criteria. 
Clydesdale said it would not consider Mr Ds overtime pay as part of the affordability
assessment, even though he said it was guaranteed income. This is a decision its entitled to 
make. 
Clydesdale revised its lending policy during the Covid-19 pandemic  as did many other 
mortgage lenders. I dont think this was unreasonable, given the unusual circumstances
and uncertainty caused by the pandemic and related Government measures. Ive seen the 
lending policy terms - one of these changes was not to include overtime income as part of 
the affordability assessment.
Mr and Mrs D say overtime income was accepted by Clydesdale during their previous 
applications. They provided the necessary evidence to prove the income was guaranteed 
and are disappointed that Clydesdale didnt take their individual circumstances into account 
as loyal and credit worthy customers. But just because Clydesdale once considered 
overtime income, doesnt mean it must in the future. And the mortgage offer set out that 
porting was subject to lending criteria at the time of applying to port.
Clydesdale wasnt prepared to lend in the circumstances which is a decision its entitled to
make as long as its a reasonable one. By not accepting overtime income I cant say 
Clydesdale acted unfairly in the circumstances as lending criteria wasnt met, and the risk 
was one it wasnt reasonably willing to take on this occasion. I also wouldnt expect 
Clydesdale to treat Mr and Mrs D differently to other customers with similar characteristics 
as it needs to apply its lending policy fairly to all customers.
Mr and Mrs D say the mortgage advisor inflated their outgoings and commented negatively 
on their car finance commitment. Clydesdale has told that when it entered the expenditure 
figures Mr and Mrs D provided, there was a substantial negative surplus. The advisor says 
she asked questions about their car finance payment to consider options for reducing this, if 
possible, to help with the application. Its also not uncommon for a lender to challenge 
expenditure where it appears low. But in any event, Im not persuaded that was the reason 
for the refusal. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ds disappointment to learn that the lending criteria was 
revised again soon after their application was refused. In normal circumstances lenders 
arent expected to contact historical applicants when there has been a change to lending 
policy post application. But in this case, the advisor says she did look at Mr and Mrs Ds 
case again once the criteria changed in late December 2020. I dont consider this to be a 
misuse of data like Mr and Mrs D suggest. I say this as it appears Clydesdale used 
information it already held to see if Mr and Mrs D would pass affordability at that point. 
The key thing to note here is that this wasnt a like for like porting application, Mr and Mrs D 
wanted to borrow additional funds. The advisor ran another affordability check based on the 
new lending criteria and it didnt pass. Mr and Mrs D doubt what Clydesdale has said 
because no contact was made to reconfirm their circumstances. I think it would only 
reasonably be necessary for Clydesdale to contact Mr and Mrs D, if there was a chance the 
application would succeed. Which wasnt the case here. 
Mr and Mrs D havent provided any detailed information about any change in circumstances. 
I also think its more likely that if their financial circumstances had significantly improved 
soon after their application, they be in touch with Clydesdale again themselves to see if 
theyd be any change to its lending decision as a result. So, Im not persuaded, Clydesdale 
acting differently in the circumstances would have made any difference in the circumstances. 
And in any event lenders arent generally required to follow up on any previously declined 
applications, so I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for any potential shortfalls here.
When considering everything, Ive not seen enough to suggest Mr and Mrs Ds application 
was wrongly declined. As per the mortgage offer, Clydesdale was entitled to apply an ERC. 
And Im satisfied that the ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, 
which Mr and Mrs D accepted when they took out the mortgage. So, I cant say that 
Clydesdale cant apply the ERC that they agreed to when they took out the mortgage. The 
ERC forms part of the contract Mr and Mrs D had with Clydesdale, so I can't say it's been 
unfair or unreasonable in applying it.
Its not disputed that Clydesdale did make some mistakes in handling this application. 
Because it has admitted its errors, its clear that the service provided by Clydesdale fell 
below the standard Mr and Mrs D should have received. Whilst Clydesdale has 
acknowledged this, it didnt initially award any compensation to Mr and Mrs D.
Its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate
consumers - not punish organisations. We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the
consumer concerned and give careful consideration to a consumers individual
circumstances, in determining whether any award for distress and inconvenience is
warranted.
Clydesdale accepts that it should have told Mr and Mrs D about the temporary change to its 
lending criteria sooner (at the time of AIP). It also acknowledges they waited too long for a 
full mortgage application appointment and their concerns about the service provided werent 
addressed sooner when they responded to a request for feedback from Clydesdale. As 
these issues likely caused Mr and Mrs D an element of distress and inconvenience, its 
therefore fair that Clydesdale compensate them in the circumstances. 
Had Mr and Mrs D been told from the outset that overtime income would not be considered 
as part of the affordability assessment, their expectations would have been better managed 
and it would have been up to them whether to proceed with a full application. That didnt 
happen and they waited over two weeks for a follow up appointment to be told then, that 
their circumstances didnt meet criteria. Mr and Mrs D accept that an AIP is not a guarantee of confirmed lending. This is the case 
and so I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for Mr and Mrs D proceeding with the next steps 
of their intended purchase before receiving a definite lending decision and a formal 
mortgage offer. Im also not persuaded that within that time they were that far along the 
process that they were unable to pull out from the sale, as theyve suggested they would 
have done. Mr and Mrs D proceeded with the purchase in the knowledge they would incur 
an ERC.
Mr and Mrs D also complain the initial concerns raised when Clydesdale werent responded 
to, leading to them making a formal complaint. Ive considered this but I think the impact was 
minimal as even if their concerns were investigated sooner, Clydesdales outcome would 
likely be the same and as such its likely Mr and Mrs D would have proceeded to bring their 
complaint to our service in any event. 
When considering the impact on Mr and Mrs D, Im satisfied £200 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr and Mrs Ds complaint Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should 
pay Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman