DRN-3858357
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) because its not waiving the 
remaining 50% of the £38,900 loan, she was tricked into to taking out as part of a romance 
scam. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision: 
In April 2022 Miss R met someone (I will refer to as S) on a dating app who 
persuaded her to invest money into cryptocurrency. But it actually turned out to be a 
scam. She lost £45,490 in total. £38,900 of this was from a loan taken through the 
bank. She sent the money via faster payments from her account into a 
cryptocurrency account in her own name and from there onto a fake trading account.
Miss R reported the scam to Barclays. She said she was only concerned about 
having the loan written off. Barclays refunded 50% of the loan amount. But Barclays 
refused to reimburse Miss R in full because it said she didnt carry out sufficient 
checks before making the payments. It also tried to reclaim the money from the 
receiving account, but apart from £27.88, Miss Rs money had already left the 
account. 
Our investigator agreed that the complaint should be upheld in part. But asked 
Barclays to also refund 50% of the interest that had been applied to the loan.
Miss R wanted the loan written off in full, so the complaint has come to me to review. 
I wrote to both parties explaining that I felt some of the earlier transactions should be partly 
upheld and Miss R should be reimbursed for 50% of those transactions too.
Barclays accepted my opinion. Miss R responded saying she wanted to provide some more 
context about the loan. She raised new issues regarding the eligibility of the loan and the 
repayments she was making towards the loan. 
Miss R says she was going to use the loan to buy home furniture. She further explained that 
the loan was moved to her cash wallet and never used on the trading platform as she 
previously had done with her own money. Miss R said the transaction to her wallet was 
approved by Barclays after she said she was going to buy the furniture, so everything looked 
safe.
I told Miss R the issues regarding her eligibility for the loan and those surrounding the 
repayments she was making towards the loan are new issues not raised with Barclays 
before. So, Miss R will need to raise these with Barclays. 
As the case could not be resolved informally, I am issuing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The payment was made to an account in Miss Rs name, so it isnt covered under the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But Ive gone on to consider whether
Barclays shouldve prevented the payments from being made.
Should Barclays have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
It is not in dispute that Miss R authorised the scam payments. It is also not in dispute that
Miss R was duped by the scammer into instructing the bank to transfer money to a
cryptocurrency account and, ultimately on from there, into the scammers account. The
scammer deceived her over a messaging platform into thinking she was making a legitimate
cryptocurrency investment for further trading. As I understand it, payments to the
cryptocurrency provider were used to purchase cryptocurrency which was then placed 
in a wallet in Miss Rs name and on from there it was moved for further trading with a fake 
trading platform. So, although Miss R did not intend the money to go to the scammer, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Starling should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
My remit is an inquisitorial one. There were earlier transactions that went towards the same 
scam in this case. Whilst I note Miss R did not want the earlier transactions to be considered 
as part of this complaint  that seems to have been on the premise that the whole loan was 
written off. That hasnt happened here. I therefore think it only fair and reasonable to bring 
into question the earlier transactions connected with this scam. So, I have gone on to 
consider them.Whilst the initial transfers were relatively small and werent sufficiently out of character that I 
wouldve expected Barclays to intervene, they did in fact trigger Barclays fraud detection 
system - and Barclays did in fact intervene and called Miss R to ask about the £1,900 
transfer on 25 April 2022. Accordingly, its just a question of whether it did enough in all the 
circumstances. 
Aspects of the call are good - for example during the call there is some questioning around 
the purpose of the transfer and some general scam warnings including cryptocurrency 
scams. There is also a warning that, once you transferred your money, you will not be able 
to get your money back  if something goes wrong. But I still think Barclays should have 
done more.
Miss R confirmed the purpose of the transfer was to buy cryptocurrency and when asked 
how long she had been investing in cryptocurrency, Miss R confirmed she had just started. 
When questioned, she explained that she had been doing the investment with a friend who 
knew how to do it. Miss R confirmed that shed opened the account (which was her own) 
with her friends help. Whilst the caller does ask how Miss R knew this person  Miss R 
deflected answering this question by saying hes just my friend and she confirmed he is a 
recent friend but were close. I think this warranted further questioning. 
I do think Barclays could have probed more about the friend  for example  Barclays could 
have asked where Miss R had met S, had she met him in person and how long exactly was 
recent. Further questions about where the money was going after the purchase of 
cryptocurrency could have been asked  for example was a trading platform involved. I think 
there were signs here that Miss R was also the victim of a romance scam  she was 
guarded in her response about who was helping her and confirmed it was a recent friend but 
were close. And, I do think with more probing that Miss R would have told the caller that 
she hadnt actually met the friend in person and had only known S for a matter of weeks. 
With more questioning I think Miss R would have told Barclays that contact with the 
individual had very quickly moved from a dating site to a messaging platform outside of the 
site and that she was provided with links to what she thought was a legitimate trading 
platform.
With further questioning, I think Barclays would have been concerned and put on notice that 
Miss R was falling victim to a scam. It could have gone to warn her about romance scams 
and cryptocurrency scams with fake trading platforms. I think this would have caused 
sufficient doubt in Miss Rs mind not to proceed with the payment.  In other words, if 
Barclays had carried out further or better questioning in line with the banks duty of care, it 
seems probable that Miss R would have become credulous about the scam in time and 
stopped the payment of £1,900, and those that followed, in its tracks. The fraud would have 
failed; and Miss R would not have lost her money. 
Could Miss R have done more to mitigate her losses?
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays obligations were, as set out above. But another
key issue is whether Miss R acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of
the scam. So, I have also considered whether Miss R should bear some responsibility for her 
losses.
Miss R invested considerable sums of money based on advice from someone shed met 
through an online dating site after just a week or so. S quickly deleted his dating app and 
moved onto a messaging platform  and it seems there were a number of other things which 
made Miss R suspicious. Miss R had not met or spoken to S in person. I think the risk is 
clearly heightened and warranted further checking.I appreciate the money did not appear to be going directly to S, but Miss R only took what S 
was saying and acted on this. I accept that the money was initially going to a genuine 
cryptocurrency provider, but the money was moved on to a trading platform and I think Miss 
R ought reasonably to have done more to check this was a genuine investment opportunity.
Miss R clearly had reservations about the loan and tried to cancel it and told S she was 
going to do so. Miss R told S we need to stop talking about the loan and trading until we 
meet.
I do appreciate and understand what Miss R is saying about the terms and conditions of the 
loan that specifically say it is not to be used for investment purposes. And that when 
Barclays fraud team called her letting the first payment from the loan through  it could see 
that the money had originated from a loan and that it was being used for cryptocurrency. I 
accept and agree Barclays didnt do enough (as explained above). But here Im also thinking 
about whether Miss R acted reasonably too. Miss R acknowledged she knew the terms of 
the loan  it is evident from the messages she had with S - where S himself pointed out 
loans cant be taken for investments. Miss R clearly had reservations about lying to the bank 
and about proceeding with the loan until she had met with S. Despite these reservations and 
knowledge  Miss R still proceeded and (in my view) gave a false reason for the loan 
purpose (to buy furniture) on the application form. 
I appreciate Miss R says she was genuinely intending to use the loan for furniture and that 
the money from the loan  although transferred to her cryptocurrency wallet - was never 
used on the trading platform. But I still think Miss R was investing by placing the money in 
her wallet and I dont think cryptocurrency is the usual way to pay for home furniture. 
Ultimately given what I have said above, Miss R had concerns and still proceeded. On that 
basis, I still think its reasonable for her to share the responsibility with Barclays and reduce 
the refund on all of the payments by 50%.
Putting things right
For the transactions that were funded by the loan, Barclays has already refunded Miss R 
50% of the original loan amount  so £19,450 - and more recently 50% of the interest 
applied to the loan. Miss R could have mitigated her losses by paying those sums into the 
loan  but I note she hasnt done so. I am not awarding anything further in relation to the 
transactions that were funded by the loan.
However, I am partially upholding the transactions for £1,900 and £4,280 on 25 April 2022. 
To put things right for Miss R, Barclays Bank UK PLC has agreed to refund 50% of these 
two transactions with interest from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement.
In relation to interest, for the two transactions on 25 April 2022, theres no suggestion that 
Miss R intended to spend or use the majority of the lost funds. Miss R confirmed the money 
came from her savings. I therefore think interest should be paid at the originating savings 
account rate from the date of each transaction to the date of settlement.
I understand Miss R cashed in an ISA to fund some of the transactions. So, I think fair 
compensation should reflect the position she would have been in (as closely as possible) 
had the funds remained there. I assume Miss R will be able to pay the refunded amount 
back into a Cash ISA  she has not indicated otherwise in response to my previous 
communication on this. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right for Miss R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman