DRN-2024072
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out PPI alongside an HSBC mortgage that started in October 1997. The 
policy protected their mortgage monthly repayments in the event that either or both of them 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. 
Mr and Mrs F disagree. They mainly say the PPI wasnt suitable or appropriate for them in 
their situation  especially as they had other ways to make the mortgage monthly 
repayments if they couldnt work as they both had excellent work benefits. They also told us 
that they didnt request the policy  it was raised and determined by the person who sold 
them the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
HSBC hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken. But that 
isnt surprising given how long ago this happened. 
And Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs F told us about the way they say HSBC 
sold them PPI. But what Mr and Mrs F say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold their complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs F to recall exactly 
what was discussed at the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what 
I think is most likely. 
Ive seen a copy of the record of Mr and Mrs Fs Personal Financial Planning Review 
meeting. This indicates that PPI was something that HSBCs advisor discussed with 
Mr and Mrs F as part of the mortgage application process. 
The record of that meeting indicates that after discussing income protection at length 
Mr and Mrs F chose to take out Mortgage Repayment Protector (this was what HSBC called 
the PPI it offered at the time). And that Mr and Mrs F decided to go with the PPI offered for 
at least the trial 6 months free period during which time they would reassess the situation. 
Mr and Mrs F have both signed the record of the interview so I think its likely thats what 
happened during the meeting.   
It seems likely to me that their mortgage was a major financial commitment for Mr and Mrs F, 
due to run for a number of years. Mr and Mrs Fs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have. 
I can completely understand why they mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs F decided they wanted to have the benefits and 
security that PPI offered and they chose to buy it when they took out their mortgage. 
HSBC personally recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs F. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. As well as this, it also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. 
Mr and Mrs F were both in work and contributing to the monthly mortgage repayments. So, 
I think it was appropriate for the policy to be taken out in both their names. 
Mr and Mrs F both met the eligibility requirements for the policy. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event of an accident or 
illness that prevented either or both Mr and Mrs F from working. And the benefit per person 
wouldve been paid in proportion to their respective incomes at the time of a claim.
So it looks like the policy couldve paid out for longer than the sick pay Mr and Mrs F told us 
they couldve each expected to get through work. PPI wouldve paid out in full for the whole 
12 months on top of Mr and Mrs Fs work benefits. So I think the policy offered them a 
valuable benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time, especially if they had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr F or Mrs F 
became unexpectedly unemployed. 
They couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving Mr and Mrs F long term protection 
for their mortgage.
It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs F had any other ways to pay their mortgage if they werent 
both working. And as the mortgage was based on them both being in paid work I think that 
losing even one of their incomes wouldve had a big impact on their finances overall. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs F have told me 
about their situation at the time and the other financial provision they had in place. But this 
doesnt affect my overall view. Heres why I say this.
Ive looked carefully at the pensions information Mr and Mrs F sent us. They both had 
excellent pension schemes that gave them future financial security  and those schemes 
included some additional benefits. 
But their pensions didnt pay out for short term absence from work  they would only start 
once pensionable age was reached or early retirement through ill health was taken.PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances to death in 
service benefit.
The ill health benefits (tied to membership of the pension scheme) provided a long-term 
income for employees who were unable to work because of serious ill health. In other words, 
this cover provided protection for someone who was likely to be permanently excluded from 
working again. This isnt the same as PPI which was specifically taken out to protect Mr and 
Mrs Fs monthly mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time  and it would start to 
pay out after just 30 days off work.
Mr and Mrs F mentioned that they could rely on each other. But relying on other people to 
help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. For instance if they were involved in a joint 
accident or they both contracted a serious infectious illness that kept them off work, perhaps 
for months at a time. 
Although it looks like Mr and Mrs F mightve had some limited savings (theres mention of 
one or two deposits dotted about) it also says this is money thats going towards their new 
home. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs F say they couldve sold their house if theyd needed 
to. But this doesnt affect my decision. Having PPI meant they werent at risk of being forced 
to sell  perhaps at a time when property prices mightve meant they mightnt get as much 
as they hoped for. I think that having cover in place so Mr and Mrs F couldve continued to 
make their monthly mortgage repayments without having to sell their home provided them 
with a worthwhile benefit.
So, looking at everything I've been told about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, 
I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible some information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F about the policy wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs F were affected by any of the things 
the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions 
and limitations wouldve made any difference to Mr and Mrs Fs decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs F when they bought the policy. 
But, it looks like HSBC paid the premiums for the first 6 months so it didnt cost Mr and Mrs F 
anything at the start. And as this was a policy they were charged for each month after that, 
Mr and Mrs F couldve cancelled the policy at any time if they didnt want to pay for it or no 
longer wanted to have it. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way HSBC sold 
Mr and Mrs F this PPI, I think it unlikely that better information wouldve put them off having 
it. 
On balance, I think theyd still have taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr and Mrs F lost out as a result of anything HSBC did wrong. This 
means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman