DRN-2764800
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Investec Bank PLC (Investec) delayed 
paying the balance from its savings account. Mr S, who is the director of S, brings this 
complaint on Ss behalf. He says the delay caused him a loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
S says there was a delay in Investec paying the funds from its account. Investec has 
accepted responsibility for this. So, Ive considered the impact this had on S. In doing 
so, its important to note that I cant consider the impact on Mr S personally. Thats 
because hes told us hes complaining in his capacity as the director of S. That 
means S is the eligible complaint. As a limited company, its a separate legal entity to 
Mr S. 
When S complained, Investec asked for a breakdown of the losses incurred so it 
could consider these. Mr S broke these down as follows:
o£90 for his inconvenience, anxiety and stress
o£105 for his time chasing up the matter (calculated at £35 per day)
o£6 for lost interest on the funds for three days
He said he was therefore claiming £201  or £200 rounded down.
At that point, there was no mention of a specific loss of an investment opportunity. He 
calculated the loss of use of the funds to be £6. Whereas hes now told us his 
investment loss was £200. Investec paid S £60 compensation.
Mr S has told us about his worry and time chasing things up. But thinking about the 
impact this had on S, Im conscious the delay appears to have been addressed 
shortly  and well within the timescales that businesses have to respond to 
complaints. I think this has minimised the impact on S. 
I appreciate Mr S says he lost more due to not being able to invest the funds during 
that period. In response to our investigators view, he said: 
The compensation amount is derogatory and it does not take into account 
the amount of interest lost if I had invested elsewhere of which I am happy to 
provide details
When our investigator asked for these details, Mr S said we should be able to 
calculate his loss from looking at how the market performed during the period of the 
delay. However, its down to the complainant to substantiate their allegation. In this 
case, it would be down to S to substantiate that, due to Investecs errors, it suffered 
an investment loss. Ive nothing to show that S had committed to investing all these 
funds, and if so where they would have been invested and when they would have 
been withdrawn. Ultimately, I cant fairly make an award for a speculative loss  
which is what this appears to be. Nor can I fairly make an award with the benefit of 
hindsight.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the £60 already paid fairly addresses the losses 
suffered by S due to Investecs delay. Ive seen nothing to substantiate that its loss 
was higher than this. 
For these reasons, Im not making a further award or direction against Investec.
My final decision
My final decision is that Investec Bank PLC has already fairly and reasonably resolved this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman