DRN-1748968
The complaint
Mr T says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty lent to him irresponsibly. He said that Drafty 
didnt make the correct checks before lending. He thinks that if it had done then it wouldnt 
have lent to him as it wouldve seen that he was struggling financially. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr T in January 2018. 
The arrangement had an initial credit limit of £890. It was open ended but Mr T would need 
to repay 5% of the outstanding balance (plus any interest or charges) each month. 
From what I can see Mr T withdrew the full amount at the start of the arrangement. He made 
repayments until June 2018 when he made a second withdrawal. He paid off the full balance 
in July 2018 and didnt use the account over the next few months. 
Mr T started to use the account again in October 2018. He made some larger withdrawals 
and the amount Mr T borrowed increased to the credit limit again in February 2019. 
The credit limit on the account was increased to £1,440 on February 2019 and Mr T 
withdrew up to this amount by April 2019. Mr T didnt make any further significant 
withdrawals and the account was repaid in September 2019.   
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was reasonable for Drafty to approve 
the initial lending. He thought it shouldve made further checks before increasing the credit 
limit in 2019. But he didnt see anything in the information Mr T had provided about his 
circumstances that led him to believe Drafty wouldve thought it was unsafe to increase the 
credit limit. 
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Drafty should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr T provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr T said he had a monthly income of £1,850 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
around £750. So it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to assume that the loan repayments, 
which would be a minimum of around £50 a month, were affordable for him. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Drafty was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr T mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Ts circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Drafty to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the initial assessment Drafty did was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve the running credit arrangement was 
reasonable.
Mr T used the arrangement for a reasonably long time. And whilst hid did repay the account 
in full in mid 2018 he went on to make some larger withdrawals in late 2018 and early 2019. 
And Drafty increased the credit limit on the account by a significant amount in early 2019. 
So I agree that at time of the credit limit increase Drafty couldve realised at that time that 
Mr T may have some longer term financial problems rather than just using the loans to help 
with a temporary cash flow problem. Drafty shouldve also become concerned about whether 
it knew enough about Mr Ts true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Ts financial situation And I think 
that Drafty needed to verify the information it found out where possible. As far as can see it 
didnt do this. 
Mr T has provided some information about his financial circumstances which includes his 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Drafty wouldve seen at the time. But I 
think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think 
its reasonable to rely on it.
Ive looked at this information and I dont think it shows any clear signs that Mr T was in 
financial difficulty. So I think that if Drafty had made proportionate checks then it still 
wouldve lent to Mr T. So I think that Draftys decisions to increase the credit limit on the account, and continue to 
lend, were reasonable and Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman