DRN-4346847
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about a claim she made in respect of her business under a DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
DAS declined to cover the claim. Miss T says this is unfair and wants DAS to accept the 
claim.
What happened
Miss T had a legal expenses insurance policy in place for her business from June 2013  
June 2014.
Miss made a claim on that policy for cover to bring a claim against a third party, which she 
pursued with the benefit of the insurance. 
Miss T now feels the Solicitor and Barrister that acted for her at time were negligent in how 
they dealt with that claim. As such she made a further claim on the same policy for cover to 
pursue a claim against them. The claim itself relates to a loan that Miss T says was omitted 
in a settlement proposal by those Solicitor and Barrister amounting to around £250,000. 
DAS declined the claim. They said the originating cause was the negligence itself which 
arose some considerable time after the policy expired, and this isnt something that cover 
would extend to. On the other hand, Miss T says the originating cause of the claim is the 
original dispute with the third party. As such, cover should engage under the 2013-2014 
policy. She wants DAS to accept the claim and provide legal expenses insurance cover for 
her to pursue the former Solicitor and Barrister for professional negligence.
Our investigator considered Miss Ts complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that although she could see the cases were connected, the cover being sought is 
for a claim against a different opponent for a different cause of action that occurred 6 or 7 
years after the policy expired and this wasnt something that was covered by the policy. Miss 
T doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint, and this is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
We agree to provide the insurance in this section as long as:
(a)The date of occurrence of the insured incident happens during the period of insurance
and within the territorial limit;
Date of occurrence is defined as For civil cases the date of occurrence is when the 
cause of action first accrued.
 
Insured incident refers to the various types of legal claims the policy extends to.
In this case Miss T says the cause of action can be traced back to the original claim because 
the losses shes claiming for are the same losses claimed for against the third party for 
which DAS provided cover. She says the Solicitor and Barrister she wants to claim against 
are now responsible for those because they failed to include them in a settlement proposal 
that ultimately brought the claim to an end. DAS says the cause of action first accrued in 
2021 when the alleged professional negligence occurred against the Solicitor and Barrister 
Miss T wants to claim against.  
Ive thought about what both parties have said, and I understand the argument that Miss T is 
making. But I dont agree with it. Whilst it might be right that Miss T is still seeking to recover 
the same loss, she was seeking against the third party, the claim itself has changed. Its no 
longer the same cause of action, both because shes claiming against different parties- her 
former Solicitor and Barrister- and because the claims are in respect of a different type of 
claim in law- professional negligence. As such, I take the view that the cause of action for 
this specific claim didnt accrue when Miss T made her initial claim to DAS under the 
2013/2014 policy, but rather when the alleged negligence occurred, and this was several 
years after the policy expired. Without that cause of action, there would be no claim in law 
against the former Solicitor and Barrister at all.
I appreciate that from Miss Ts perspective her claim is a continuation of the legal process 
originating from the first claim made to DAS for cover. I also understand what she says 
about the lawyers not understanding the law relating to loan account requirements, which 
only became apparent when they produced an offer to settle the matter in 2021. But for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I consider the causes of action to be distinct, both in time and in 
law and against different parties. Even if I determined the negligence itself occurred earlier 
than the production of the offer itself, it would still fall outside the scope of policy cover 
because those lawyers were appointed after the expiry of the policy period. As such the 
claim doesnt fall within the period of insurance Miss T is seeking cover for.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman