DRN-3891055
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments she didnt make.
What happened
Miss B disputes two payments - for £700 and £300 - made from her account on 17 April 
2022 at 10:14 and then 10:16am. She was told that these were to a cryptocurrency 
merchant. And she says she has no account with it and didnt authorise any payment. She 
noticed the lack of money in her account a couple of days later and raised a fraud claim
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that the payments were 
authorised using her registered mobile device and with her five-digit security number. It 
didnt see any evidence of a compromise of Miss Bs details. As the payments had required 
two factor authentication thered been no reason to stop them as Miss B had said should 
have happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss B had told her that 
she hadnt shared her banking security information or phone passcode with anyone. Shed 
allowed her friends children (of three and nine years old) to use the phone to watch a video 
the day before but was monitoring what they were doing. She was away at the time in this 
country and to the best of her knowledge at the time was asleep in a tent and the phone was 
with her in a sleeping compartment.
Santander had shown that the device used to authenticate the payments was the one Miss B 
had been using. And it said that the IP address was one previously used by Miss B for 
genuine transactions. The technical information showed that the transactions were made 
using strong customer authentication in the app through the use of the security number.  
Miss B hadnt identified anyway someone could have discovered her details as shed kept 
them safe. Our investigator said it wasnt our role to find exactly what happened but to look 
at the information available. The merchant had told both Miss B and this service that it didnt 
have an account associated with her email. But based on the evidence our investigator 
concluded that she had authorised the payments which could have involved allowing 
someone else to use her details. There was no reason for these payments to be flagged as 
unusual at the time by Santander. 
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she had her 
phone with her at the time. Santander hadnt protected her from this fraud. She hadnt been 
able to get information about any account at the merchant these payments had gone to. And 
thought that it should have matched her name and she didnt think it had fulfilled regulatory 
requirements. Here saying what had probably happened wasnt definitive. Miss B said she 
thought that her phone had been infected by malware and that Santander ought to have 
noticed. Miss B had researched some possible apps that could do this but said shed not 
used any of them. Miss B said she would take this further if the complaint wasnt resolved in 
her favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely on a 
balance of probabilities.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if they werent authorised Miss B wouldnt 
generally be responsible for them. Where credit is involved, as is mainly the case here as an 
overdraft of over £900 resulted from the payments, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies to 
that element of the dispute. And it states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an 
unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else having possession of the 
payment method.   
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and security details 
used for these payments?
- Did Miss B authorise the payments on the account as Santander says?
- Did Santander act reasonably?
Ive considered the information Santander has provided about these payments. This required 
Miss Bs card details including the three-digit card verification number. And in addition, I can 
clearly see that the payments were authenticated in the app. This was using the registered 
mobile device on the account. And as Santander explained an IP address that had been 
used before. Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated.
I need to decide whether Miss B consented to the payments and so authorised them. Im 
going to think first about the explanation shes provided. And shes referred to the possibility 
that her mobile phone was somehow taken over by malware and that the IP address used 
could be altered or masked. Her position is that this can effectively be inferred from the 
nature of the payments. And from the lack of matching information from the merchant. 
There is no actual evidence to show that her phone was infected and so used remotely in 
this way. Miss B didnt identify any malware and hasnt described any other issues with her 
information being used. Miss B was asked about any suspicious texts or emails that shed 
responded to and said she hadnt. And she doesnt believe that the children who had access 
to her phone the day before could have been responsible especially given what they were 
doing was being monitored and their ages.
Miss B also says she hasnt provided her security information to anyone else, and her phone 
was in her possession. It seems difficult to see that the phone could be taken and replaced 
given where she says it was at the time. Sometimes there are cases where a consumer is 
scammed into making payments in this way linked to expected cryptocurrency gains. But 
based on what Miss B has clearly said thats not a possibility here.
Miss B is unhappy at the lack of information from the merchant. Santander took the view that 
there was no prospect of a successful chargeback given the way the payments were 
authenticated. I think thats likely right here. And so, investigating these payments any 
further would be a matter for Miss B to pursue with the relevant authorities - especially given 
what shes said about her unsuccessful contact with the merchant. I dont see a specific 
requirement that there is a name match on any account money was paid to with a card payment as far as Santander is concerned. And Im looking in this complaint at what 
Santander did. 
I note Miss Bs point that what is most likely isnt a finding about what definitely happened. 
But the latter isnt the basis on which we make assessments. What I need to think about is 
how the balance of evidence including her testimony supports any particular possibility. And 
having done so Im afraid I find that in the absence of evidence of compromise of her details 
the most likely explanation is that the payments were authorised.
Given that finding the issue of whether these payments should have triggered a warning or 
been blocked by Santander is of less relevance. Its explained that they didnt because of the 
way they were authenticated. And overall, in light of my findings I consider it was reasonable 
for it to hold Miss B responsible for the payments.
I know Miss B will be very disappointed given whats at stake for her, but I dont have a basis 
to require Santander to do anything further. If Miss B doesnt accept my decision she 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman