DRN-2135350
The complaint
Mr S and the estate of Mrs S complain Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S and the late Mrs S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in November 1992 alongside a 
mortgage. The policy ended in 1994 and the mortgage was redeemed in 2014.
Mr S says Nationwide mis-sold the policy to them. He says they were unaware the insurance 
was added to their mortgage. He adds that they were not aware they had it and were never 
informed about it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr S doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr S and the estate of Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and the estate of Mrs Ss complaint because:
The PPI was taken out many years ago and because of this theres very little information 
available from the time. I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr S and the late 
Mrs S during the meeting and Ive not been able to see any sales documentation. So, its 
been difficult to consider whether they were given a choice or not as to whether they should 
have the MPPI policy.  
Ive looked at what Mr S has said about how the policy was sold and in particular about how 
it was added without their knowledge. But his recollections are not detailed. This is 
understandable though, considering the many years that have passed since the time of sale. 
Im not aware of any known issues with the way Nationwide sold these policies around this 
time. And in the absence of any documentation or further information to support what Mr S 
has said, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold as he says it was. 
I havent been able to see enough to draw that conclusion.  
Moving on, I have needed to consider whether Nationwide provided advice to Mr S and the 
late Mrs S or whether it just provided information. If it did provide advice, I would need to 
consider whether the recommendation was suitable for them. 
As it is not clear where the policy was sold, I cant say for sure whether a recommendation 
was made or not, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for Mr S as the sole policy holder 
based on what he has told me of his circumstances at the time. Mr S says he had at least 6 
months sick pay and 6 months worth of savings, but I think he would have benefitted from 
additional cover in times that he needed to claim. There wasnt anything else that I can see 
that would have made the policy unsuitable for him such as a restrictive or limiting term. 
I cant be sure that Nationwide disclosed the PPI costs clearly to Mr S and the late Mrs S. 
But I dont think they wouldve changed their minds about taking the policy if this cost was 
presented clearly to them based on what I have already concluded. I think they would have 
had some need for the cover the policy provided. 
Finally, Nationwide has paid some compensation to Mr S relating to commission it received from 
the sale of the PPI policy. If Mr S is unsure or unhappy with the amount he has received, he can 
ask Nationwide for an explanation as to how it has worked out this compensation, if it hasnt 
done so already. If after this, he still feels unhappy about this he would need to make a 
complaint to Nationwide in the first instance. 
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision for me to make due to the limited information 
provided but having considered what I have got and what I know of how Nationwide sold MPPI 
policies at that time, I do not uphold Mr S and the estate of Mrs Ss complaint for the reasons 
given.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S and the estate of Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman