DRN-2851023
The complaint
Mr J complains that the administrators of his mobile phone insurance policy, Citymain 
Administrators Limited (Citymain) wouldnt repair his replacement phone under its warranty.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr J was provided with a replacement phone under the terms of his mobile 
phone insurance policy. But he said that the replacement phone wasnt working properly. He 
said the screen pixelated when looking at photos. And the screen kept going off. Mr J said 
that after around a month the screen went off and never came back on. 
So Mr J contacted Citymain to report the fault and arrange to return the phone under its 
warranty. Citymain sent a returns box for the phone and Mr J sent it back to them.
But when Citymain received the phone, they said the warranty on the original replacement 
was invalid. They said the screen was cracked. They said theyd only repair the phone if    
Mr J paid the £50 excess for a second claim.
Mr J said the screen wasnt cracked when hed put it in the returns box. So he complained to 
this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Js complaint. She felt the damage couldve been caused in 
transit. She recommended Citymain repair the phone without charging the £50 excess.
Citymain didnt agree. They said that in their experience the packaging used for returns 
works well to protect the contents. So they felt that it was more likely that Mr J had caused 
the damage. They provided photos of the packaging used.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
As some of the evidence for this complaint is contradictory and inconclusive I think I need to 
decide what happened on the balance of probabilities. That is what I think is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances. 
Mr J says the phone had no screen damage when he sent the phone to Citymain. He used 
the packaging theyd provided. But Citymain dispute this. They say the phone was received 
by them with a cracked screen. So, Ive considered both sides version of events alongside 
the evidence available and decided what I think, on the balance of probability, is most likely 
to have happened. 
Its not disputed that the screen was cracked. And I dont dispute that the phone was 
received by Citymain in this condition. But this doesnt mean Mr J sent the phone to them 
with the screen already damaged.
Citymain said that the phone was inspected on arrival. And that the technician found cracks 
under the glass commonly found in cases of blunt impacts. So the damage to the screen 
looks like it was caused by being dropped before it was received by Citymain. 
Our investigator felt that nothing shed seen had ruled out the phone being damaged during 
transit. 
Citymain responded to her view, saying: Whilst I cannot give a 100% guarantee that 
damage would never occur in transit, without visible signs of damage to the packaging, this 
is most unlikely on the balance of probabilities and your statement that such damage could 
have occurred does not therefore seem reasonable. 
Ive considered this. But without clear evidence of when the damage to the screen took 
place, I think its most likely that Mr J sent the phone with no visible screen damage. As it 
was received by Citymain with damage, I think its most likely the phone was damaged in 
transit.
I acknowledge that its possible that the phone was damaged before Mr J returned it. But I 
dont have any evidence that Mr J damaged the phone before returning it. So Im going to 
require Citymain to repair the phone under the warranty.
Putting things right
Citymain Administrators Limited should repair Mr Js phone without charging the £50 excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold the complaint. I require Citymain Administrators 
Limited to repair the phone without charging Mr J the £50 excess. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman