DRN-3896140
The complaint
Miss A complains about a block placed on her account by TSB Bank pIc.
What happened
On 8 November 2021, Miss A attempted to make a card payment for a retail purchase over 
the phone with the shop assistant for £1,166.40. This payment and a subsequent attempt to 
make the same payment was declined. Miss A says that, as the shop assistant had already 
stayed past the shops closing time to process Miss As purchase, she didnt ask her to wait 
while she contacted TSB about why her payment had been declined.
Miss A called TSB who said theyd blocked the transaction on suspicion of potential fraud. 
Miss A confirmed the transaction was genuine but, as the shop had closed, she said shed 
missed out on a special price for the purchase she was making, so raised a complaint with 
TSB.
TSB responded to Miss As complaint acknowledging that there was a system error, which 
meant she didnt receive the text from TSB asking her to confirm it was her making the 
transaction. Because of this, TSB paid Miss A £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. TSB also suggested Miss A share a copy of their response to her complaint with the 
retailer to see if theyd honour the offer which shed missed. Unhappy with TSBs response 
Miss A contacted our service to further her complaint.
One of our investigators considered Miss As complaint. They thought that had Miss A 
received the text from TSB, shed have been able to reply to confirm the transaction was 
genuine, and the block wouldve been lifted there and then, while the shop assistant was still 
there. Therefore, the investigator said it was because of TSBs error that Miss A lost out on 
the special deal (a discount of around £800), and that TSB needed to pay the difference of 
the increased price to that of the price it was when Miss A was trying to make the purchase 
on 8 November 2021.
TSB rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. They said that even if 
Miss A had received the text, it wouldve asked her to call them. TSB didnt agree that Miss 
A had lost out on the deal because of the error with their text message system. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision dated 13 December 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss As complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, and these make provision for TSB to 
suspend or block payments if they have concerns about security or potential fraudulent use. 
From looking at Miss As bank statements, the telephone transaction she attempted to make 
was an unusual and large card payment. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who are 
the industry regulators, require financial businesses to have measures in place to protect 
their customers. Therefore, I find that it was reasonable for TSB to implement these account 
terms for the transaction Miss A was trying to make and block the payment.
Ultimately, the crux of this complaint is that Miss A says that had she received TSBs text 
message to confirm the card payment was genuine, she wouldve been able to complete the 
transaction within minutes by replying yes or no to the text. So, Miss A says she wouldnt 
have needed to take the time to call TSB, and the transaction wouldve been completed 
while the shop assistant was still at the store. But TSB say that had Miss A received the text, 
it wouldve advised her that the transaction had been declined and asked her to contact 
them.
TSB have explained that there are different types of payment block. As the transaction Miss 
A was trying to make was unusual and over £1,000, she wouldve needed to contact TSB. 
Whereas for low-level blocks, texts can be sent to confirm if the payment is genuine. But as 
explained, TSB placed this transaction of Miss As at a higher level. And in my experience, 
this is what normally happens across the industry - the customer would be asked to contact 
the bank as the payment was more than £1,000 and wouldnt be required to just reply with 
yes or no.
TSB have said that even when there arent any issues with the text message systems, the 
messages arent always delivered instantaneously, and may depend on phone networks 
relaying and delivering the message as well as ensuring there arent signal issues. So had 
Miss A received the text, this may have taken some time to have been received by Miss A, 
and then she still wouldve had to call TSB to authorise the payment.
The call logs TSB have provided show that Miss A called them at 6.36pm, around 10 
minutes after the transaction was declined. The system notes TSB have given me show that 
they attempted to send text messages to Miss A at 6.25pm. Im persuaded that even if Miss 
A had received the text she still would've been in the same position - that she knew that the 
payment had been declined and that she needed to speak to TSB. And I think its unlikely 
that it wouldve been any quicker for Miss A to confirm the transaction was genuine had she 
received a text, than in the time it took her to contact TSB herself.
Overall, I do sympathise with the situation Miss A found herself in. Its unfortunate that the 
timing of the transaction was after the shop had shut. But the nature of bank security checks 
means that while they will cause some inconvenience to some customers from time to time, 
theyre there to protect customers accounts. TSB have offered Miss A £50 as an apology 
and compensation for the text system failing. And for the reasons given above, I think this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Even if TSB had successfully sent Miss A a text, I 
think its most unlikely that she wouldnt have completed the TSB security process before the 
shop closed.
So, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, Im not intending to tell TSB to take any further 
action in respect of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. TSB responded to say they didnt have anything further to add.Mrs F didnt agree with my provisional findings and in summary said:
The provisional decision only summarised her complaint and didnt explain her 
position as she has.
TSB should have had an alternative process in place if the text system was down.
The £50 TSB offered Miss A was just put into her account without notice.
Had she known the card was blocked due to suspicion of fraud by receiving an alert, 
she would have asked the shop assistant to wait while she called TSB.
That the shop had already closed before the shop assistant attempted to process the 
transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A mentions that she doesnt feel the circumstances of her complaint have been 
explained in my provisional decision as well as it was in her submissions to our service. I 
appreciate I havent gone into same level of detail that Miss A did when she referred her 
complaint to us, and I havent commented on every point she has raised. But Im not 
required to. Were an informal service. But I can assure Miss A, I have considered everything 
she has told us and provided us. Im satisfied Ive understood the crux of Miss As complaint 
and taken everything into account to reach a fair outcome.
Its not in dispute that TSB didnt notify Miss A about their suspicion over the potential 
fraudulent transaction by text. And I accept this is what usually should have happened. But 
Miss A seems to be under the impression that a text alert is instantaneous  and I dont 
agree this is the case. I cant comment on the exact circumstances of what happened with 
TSBs systems on the day of the specific transaction Miss A is complaining about. But I 
consider it more likely than not that Miss A contacted TSB before TSBs system wouldve 
triggered a text alert had the system been working correctly. So, Im not persuaded that Miss 
A lost out due to the system failure. And in any event, the shop assistant had already stayed 
beyond the shops closing time, so there wasnt a cut-off point in which Miss A wouldve 
needed to have spoken to TSB to get the transaction approved.
In relation to TSB alerting customers through automated calls  we arent the regulators, so 
we arent able to say what systems or facilities TSB should have in place. TSB have offered 
a text alert service, and this isnt unreasonable as this is, in most circumstances, the 
quickest way to contact a customer in a case of potentially fraudulent activity on a 
customers account. Its at TSBs discretion as to what processes they have in place, and its 
not for us to comment on how they should run their services.
Its not unusual when attempting to resolve a complaint for a business to place 
compensation directly into a customers account. TSB havent done anything wrong by 
crediting Miss As account with £50 to acknowledge the inconvenience caused. The payment 
was confirmed in TSBs final response letter to Miss A of 11 November 2021. And it didnt 
prevent her from referring the complaint to this service.
I want to thank Miss A for her further comments, and Ive considered everything she has said 
in response to my provisional decision. But, while Miss A will be disappointed, ultimately this 
doesnt change my decision and I wont be asking TSB to take any further action on this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman