DRN-2866766
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the service provided by HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) in 
relation to internet banking.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs L opened a joint account with HSBC in February 2020.
In March 2020, they wanted to set up internet banking. They set up telephone security, and 
then needed to register for online banking, and set up log in details individually. Mrs L 
registered but had difficulty using the service and called HSBC about this in April 2020. The 
advisor tried to help, but Mrs L continued to have difficulty accessing internet banking.
In June 2020, Mrs L logged a complaint about this, but it was incorrectly logged against Mr 
Ls profile. A letter of acknowledgement was sent to Mr L but the complaint was then closed 
as it concerned internet banking, which Mr L didnt have, and previous contact about this had 
been with Mrs L. As a result, the issue wasnt investigated.
As Mr L heard nothing more, he complained again in October 2020. HSBC explained what 
had happened. It apologised and offered Mr L £50 as compensation.
HSBC dealt with Mrs Ls complaint separately. HSBC offered its apologies for closing the 
complaint in June without investigating it. The complaint handler wanted to help reset 
internet banking access details and suggested ways that HSBC could assist, with the phone 
being the best option as HSBC was only offering counter service at the time due to Covid 
concerns. But Mrs L didnt want to do this over the phone.
HSBC offered Mrs L £100 for the inconvenience shed suffered, and a further £150 for the 
delay in dealing with her complaint.
Mr and Mrs L were not satisfied with this response, or that HSBC was treating them 
differently and offering one more compensation than the other. They didnt feel their issues 
had been addressed and after an exchange of emails, decided to bring their case to our 
service.
Our investigator could see that there had been delays on HSBCs part, but thought the 
compensation offered was fair. HSBC has offered to help Mr and Mrs L in their local branch, 
as screens had been installed to help address the Covid risk. Our investigator thought this 
was a fair and reasonable resolution to help Mr and Mrs L start using online banking.
Mr and Mrs L were not happy with this, so the case came to me to decide.
Since then Mr and Mrs L have opened a new account with another bank and are moving 
their account from HSBC.
As my view differed from the investigators I issued a provisional decision, which is set out 
below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls account was opened in mid-February 2020. In mid-March 2020, Mrs L called 
HSBC to see what had happened to the PIN she needed to set up online banking. Mrs L 
says she had been told this would be sent by post. HSBC have said that the PIN referred to 
is the telephone security number (TSN) which is needed to set up internet banking. From 
what I can see, this is not something that would be simply sent out in the post, as the TSN 
needed to be set up with Mr and Mrs L, so I think its more likely than not that there was a 
misunderstanding on the part of Mrs L about this. I understand that HSBC resolved this by 
sending Mr and Mrs L forms to complete to set up their individual TSNs, which was what Id  
have expected it to do.
HSBCs internal records show that individual TSNs were then set up over the phone. The 
advisor explained that both Mr and Mrs L needed to set up their own log in details to use 
internet banking (even though it was a joint account). The advisor agreed to send a video by 
email to Mrs L to explain how to register, which she then did, and I can see that Mrs L 
registered successfully, so I think HSBC had provided helpful assistance here, as I would 
have expected it to.
However, in April 2020, Mrs L was still having difficulty accessing online banking and called 
HSBC again. I can see that the advisor helped Mrs L reset her details and reset her online 
banking. He set her up with a digital secure key which is a random number generator used 
within the HSBC Mobile app to generate a onetime passcode to log into internet banking. 
So, I think HSBC had taken reasonable steps to help Mrs L here.
In June 2020 a complaint was logged in relation to Mrs Ls internet banking. As Ive set out 
above, there were errors and delays in dealing with the complaint, for which HSBC has 
offered compensation, which I think was fair and reasonable. I think it was fair to offer Mrs L 
more, as it was Mrs L whod raised problems with using internet banking. With regard to the 
remainder of the complaint, I have summarised the points raised as follows:
Assistance given by HSBC: Mr and Mrs L feel HSBC shouldve put in place safety measures 
so that their issues could be resolved in branch. I cant agree with this. HSBC had helped 
Mrs L on the phone, which was fair and reasonable during the pandemic, and it offered £100 
in respect of the inconvenience suffered, which I think was fair and reasonable.
Keeping track of the account: Mr and Mrs L had trouble getting the balance on their account 
and keeping track of their finances because Mrs L couldnt access internet banking. Mrs L 
also had difficulty with telephone banking, although security details had been set up. HSBC 
have said if Mrs L couldnt get a balance through the automated service, she couldve got 
this by speaking to some-one, so I can see it wouldve been possible to get a balance in this 
way.
When Mr and Mrs L were on holiday, they spent time looking for a branch, and then tried to 
get the balance from an ATM but didnt manage to do so and werent happy that it wasnt on 
the receipt. But I can see that the account balance couldve been seen using the ATM 
screen, so it wouldnt be fair to say that HSBC is responsible for them being unable to 
access this. I note also that Mrs L had set up access to the HSBC mobile app, which she 
couldve used.
As outlined earlier, I can see that HSBC had tried to help Mrs L, but were unable to do so in 
person because of Covid concerns. I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances, and as such I think the compensation offered to Mrs L is reasonable.Savings interest: Mr and Mrs L say they have lost out on savings interest because they 
couldnt open an account through internet banking. However, as they couldve opened a 
savings account before Covid restrictions came into effect, it would not be fair or reasonable 
to hold HSBC responsible for this.
Cheque books: HSBC didnt automatically send out paying in books and cheque books. As 
this is HSBCs standard practice, and they are available on request, I cant say HSBC has 
done anything wrong here.
Statements: Mr and Mrs L were unhappy to receive paper statements. However, HSBC has 
explained that both of them needed to register for internet banking to stop paper statements 
being sent. As Mr L hadnt registered for online banking, HSBC needed to send statements 
in the post to ensure Mr L would receive them. As HSBC is obliged to provide statements to 
both parties on the account, I cant say it did anything wrong here.
Branch closure: Mr and Mrs Ls local branch was closed in September 2020 and this wasnt 
mentioned on HSBCs website, which it shouldve been. I can see that this caused Mr and 
Mrs L the inconvenience of a wasted journey.
HSBC has offered a total of £300 in compensation, £50 to Mr L, for the way it dealt with the 
complaint, and £250 to Mrs L in relation to the issues she complained of and the delay in 
dealing with the complaint.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs L feel they have been impacted in the same way and 
should get the same compensation, but I cant agree with this. The complaint arose from 
online banking issues, and only Mrs L had registered for this, and from what I can see, it was 
Mrs L who had been in contact about difficulties using internet banking. So, although Mr and 
Mrs L have a joint account with HSBC, I dont agree that they were affected in the same 
way.
In terms of the compensation offered, I think it is generally fair for the reasons I have given. 
Although there have been delays, which HSBC has acknowledged, I can see that HSBC has 
tried to resolve the issue of Mrs Ls access to internet banking, as I wouldve expected it to 
do. However, I think further compensation is merited for the inconvenience caused by the 
branch closure, and I intend to require HSBC to pay an additional £25 to each of Mr and Mrs 
L for this, making the total compensation £350.
As Mr and Mrs L have said they are moving their account, HSBCs offer to help them with 
their internet banking in branch is no longer appropriate, so I dont intend to make any 
finding about offering any further assistance.
My provisional decision
I intend to require HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr L £75, which includes the £50 it has already 
offered to pay, and Mrs L £275, which includes the £250 it has already offered to pay.
HSBC has accepted my decision. 
Mr and Mrs L have responded to the effect that they dont think that they shouldve been 
expected to use an ATM during the pandemic because they were at a vulnerable age (near 
to pensionable age) and hadnt been vaccinated. They feel that HSBC shouldve made 
greater efforts to resolve their issue.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand Mr and Mrs Ls anxieties about Covid, I am not persuaded that 
HSBC shouldve done any more in the context of the pandemic. As I said in my provisional 
decision, HSBC had tried to help over the phone, and had also set up mobile banking with 
Mrs L. It has offered £100 for the inconvenience caused by being unable to offer 
appointments in branch due to Covid concerns, which I still think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My view is on this point is therefore unchanged, as is my view in relation to the other 
matters.
Part of the compensation offered by HSBC is for the way it handled Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaints. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity of itself, on which this service can 
make a finding. However, Mr and Mrs Ls complaint relates to the provision of banking 
services, which is a regulated activity, and mainly relates to the manner in which HSBC 
provided assistance to Mr and Mrs L to enable them to use those services.  As such, the 
handling of the complaint is ancillary to the complaint itself and can be included in this 
decision.  
In summary, I am partially upholding this complaint on the same basis as set out in my 
provisional decision.          
Putting things right
To put things right, I require HSBC to pay the compensation that it had already offered, plus 
an additional £25 to both Mr and Mrs L , totalling £75 for Mr L, and  £275 for Mrs L .
As Mr and Mrs L no longer bank with HSBC, they will need to provide new bank details to 
receive the payment.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
I require HSBC UK Bank plc to pay total compensation of £75 to Mr L and £275 to Mrs L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman