DRN-1592887
The complaint
Mr M complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) disadvantaged him 
when he purchased an annuity. Standard Life has reviewed this sale as part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) non-advised annuity sales review. Following the review, it found 
that it hadnt provided sufficient information at the time of sale and it paid Mr M redress. But 
Mr M doesnt believe the offer adequately compensates him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the initial redress plus the additional interest 
Standard Life has agreed to pay, fairly resolves Mr Ms complaint. I say this because:
Standard Life was required to do a review of the circumstances of the sale by the FCA. It 
found that it hadnt given Mr M enough information about his options. To put this right the 
FCA provided an agreed framework to follow. Standard Life reviewed Mr Ms sale and 
redress based on the review guidelines. And paid redress to put things right.
The review process was designed to put right situations such as Mr Ms. The review and 
redress framework was designed to account for the fact Mr M couldve got a higher 
annuity either with Standard Life or elsewhere in the market place. It provided a 
framework of calculations to workout the likely financial disadvantage customers had 
potentially been put at. This included specified rates to use in the calculation for the 
various ill-health/lifestyle conditions that wouldve provided an enhanced annuity at the 
time.
Mr M had been a smoker. And so Standard Life used the rates provided in the review 
calculation framework to compare the annuity he couldve got based on this information 
against the annuity he actually received. It paid Mr M redress for his past loss and 
increased his annuity going forward. In his case this was only a minor uplift in value. I 
can understand that Mr M may have expected more but the redress awarded will depend 
not only on the seriousness of the illness/lifestyle choice on life expectancy but also the 
competitiveness of the annuity rate already in place. 
The rates used are an aggregate of what was available on the market place at the time. 
And so Im satisfied it has put Mr M back into the position he wouldve broadly been in 
had he been given all the information at the time to make an informed choice.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that the amount offered should be much higher as he says 
he was a heavy smoker before quitting. But the review carried out by Standard Life took 
this into account. Mr M also mentioned that hed had osteoarthritis and stenosis but 
Standard Life has confirmed that these conditions do not qualify for an enhanced rate. 
This is likely because they are not life expectancy limiting conditions. Im sorry to hear 
that more recently Mr M has had a further serious condition that required an operation. 
But only conditions present at the time of taking out the annuity can be considered in the 
review. 
Mr M has said he was just paid the money and not given the chance to question it. But in 
raising a complaint and having it considered by Standard Life and then this service, he 
has been able to do this. 
Hes also mentioned that hes aware of another person who was able to challenge the 
review and had their redress increased with a different business. Whilst I am sure this is 
the case, the circumstances of that case were no doubt different. And in this case, Mr 
Ms smoking has been considered and the other health conditions didnt qualify. So Im 
not aware of any grounds for the redress to be increased. Bar the point explained below.
However, whilst I wont be upholding the main issue of the complaint, I did find that the 
interest rate used by Standard Life for calculating past loss, whilst in-line with the FCAs 
calculation framework, didnt fully reflect Mr Ms personal circumstances. Standard Life 
agreed to our view on this and agreed to the rate we recommended. The result was a 
very small increase in the redress. 
Putting things right
Standard Life, as it has already agreed to do so, should use a rate of 8% simple interest in 
place of the rate used in its review calculation. This should be brought up to date.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Standard Life 
Assurance Limited but only in relation to the interest rate used in the review calculation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman