DRN-1552394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out the PPI around the same time as arranging their mortgage during a 
branch meeting in 1998. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover 
Mr F for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F say they were led to believe that they had to agree to the PPI as part of the 
mortgage application. Ive seen some paperwork from the time of the sale. Theres a 
welcome letter thanking Mr F for choosing the policy which enclosed a copy of the policy 
document. The letter explained that the policy could be cancelled if it was no longer required.
As Ive mentioned, the policy was set up just to cover Mr F. Mr F was by far the greater 
earner at the time, so it seems reasonable that the policy was set up just to cover Mr F. So it 
appears that Mr and Mrs F gave some consideration to their needs and how the policy would 
best work for them. And Ive seen evidence that Lloyds wrote to Mr F in 2000 to say that the 
PPI had been cancelled due to problems with the direct debit mandate. Mr F then contacted 
Lloyds to have the policy reinstated. This suggests that Mr F actively wanted to maintain the 
policy.
From what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional. I havent seen any evidence to make me think that something different 
happened in this case. The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr 
and Mrs Fs recollection of events has faded. It seems to me that they probably decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs F to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to them, 
it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
On the PPI proposal form that Mr F filled in at the time, hes ticked a box to say that he was 
self-employed. Also, the couple were initially represented by a claims management company 
(CMC) and when that CMC first wrote to Lloyds it said that Mr F was self-employed. However, Mr F has said that he has always been in an employed position. Ultimately this 
doesnt make a difference to my decision because, looking at the relevant policy document, 
it was no harder for a self-employed person to make a claim than an employed person.
Mr F has said he would have received generous sick pay from his employer. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay. Mr and Mrs F say they had some savings. 
But having the policy would have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall, I havent seen anything 
about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances that made the policy an unsuitable recommendation.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr and Mrs F with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. I consider that Mr and 
Mrs F would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover their mortgage 
repayments if Mr F was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr F wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think they had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused them to change their minds. It follows that I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have said that Lloyds has upheld complaints about the mis-sale of PPI on a 
loan and credit card and, as they were held at the same time, they cant understand why 
Lloyds hasnt upheld this complaint. The obvious difference is that this complaint relates to a 
mortgage, rather than a loan or a credit card. There may also be other differences such as 
the sales process and the different policy terms. But I havent looked at Mr and Mrs Fs other 
complaints and dont know why Lloyds upheld them. Based on the evidence Ive seen in 
relation to this complaint, I am not persuaded that the mortgage PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman