DRN-1984049
The complaint
Miss C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly recorded 
a claim as a fault claim against her without her knowledge. Miss Cs motor insurance 
premiums and no claims discount were affected. 
What happened
In November 2017, Miss Cs vehicle was involved in an accident with another vehicle. So, 
she contacted LV to report the incident. But as her car had only sustained scratches to the 
rear bumper, Miss C chose not to claim on her motor insurance policy. Miss C said LV 
assured her the case would be closed and agreed to lg.   
  
A few months later LV contacted Miss C as a third-party insurer had submitted a claim on 
behalf of the other driver involved in the incident. LV asked Miss C to provide pictures of her 
vehicle  which she did.   
  
Miss C said she didnt hear further from LV until October 2018, when she received a renewal 
quote for her motor insurance policy. But as the quote was double the amount Miss C had 
expected  she contacted LV.  
 
LV told Miss C theyd now recorded the incident in 2017 as a fault accident with the Claims 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). And this had caused the increase to Miss Cs premium. 
  
Miss C complained as she didnt think LV shouldve recorded a fault accident against her. 
And she was unhappy that LV hadnt requested further information from her beyond the 
pictures of the damage to her vehicle before settling the claim. Miss C didnt think this was 
fair. 
  
LV said they hadnt been clear about the impact their decision to settle the claim would have 
on Miss Cs no claims bonus and premiums and apologised for this. They offered Miss C 
£400 to compensate her. LV said this offer took into account higher premium Miss C needed 
to pay in 2018 as a result of the fault claim registered against her. And also took into 
account the upset poor communication with Miss C had caused. But Miss C remained 
unhappy and said LV should have done more to investigate the incident, such as asking her 
for a witness statement too.   
  
In LVs final response, they said theyd received an independent witness statement in 
relation to the car accident. And given the details in that statement, they had settled the 
claim on the best possible terms was in the circumstances. But LV also said they had since 
changed the main database to show you are not at fault for the incident. And asked Miss C 
to approach her new insurer, about an adjustment of her current premium, given Miss Cs 
now updated claims history.  
LV again acknowledged their poor communication and increased their offer of compensation 
to £600 in total. LV said it couldnt know how much of an impact the claim previously noted 
as fault had on Miss Cs premium. But it accepted there would have been some impact 
because of this. LV said this was hard to calculate. And Miss C had significantly upgraded 
her car, which likely increased her premium too. So, it thought an offer of £600 would 
recognise the premium increase, and the poor communication experienced.
Miss C remained in disagreement with LV and brought her complaint to this service. She 
said LV should compensate her for the increase in her premiums she experienced, and the 
loss of her no claims bonus discount in 2018 and 2019.   
  
Miss C also wanted LV to record the accident as non-fault. And she wants LV to compensate 
her further for the stress and inconvenience caused to her, and the adverse effect caused to 
her health. 
  
Our investigators view was that LV had done enough in the circumstances. They said they 
couldnt decide liability for the accident. But they could consider whether LV had assessed 
the claim fairly. The investigator felt LV had assessed it fairly and offered a fair level of 
compensation to Miss C in the circumstances. So, she didnt recommend LV do anything 
more.
 
But as Miss C didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint was referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied LVs offer to change the CUE record to non-fault and pay Miss 
C £600 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive explained why below.
    
Our service doesnt decide who was at fault in an accident. That is the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look whether the insurer acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
As well as whether the insurer acted reasonably in the way it went about assessing the 
claim, in line with those policy terms.   
 
With that in mind, Ive considered the terms of Miss Cs motor insurance policy. And I can 
see that within Miss Cs policy booklet the following is explained;
  
Were entitled to: have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim; and take 
proceedings, in your name or in the name of any other person claiming under this insurance, 
at our own expense and for our own benefit to recover any payment we have made.  
  
This term isnt unusual within insurance policies. It means LV can make its own decision 
about whether its reasonable to contest a third-party claim or whether it would be better to 
settle it. I appreciate this might mean LV makes a decision its policyholder disagrees with. 
But the terms and conditions are clear here.
Whilst LV does have the right to make its own decision on whether to defend of settle a 
claim, I would still expect that when deciding how the matter was dealt with, LV carry out a 
fair and reasonable investigation into the loss  given the impact a claims history can have 
on future insurance.
So, Ive thought about whether the investigation LV carried out in this case, to decide 
whether I think its was fair in the circumstances. And based on the information Ive seen, I 
think it was carried out fairly.LV received several pieces of information in relation to the incident. It was sent information 
from the third-party driver, and a statement from an independent witness. It also asked for, 
and was provided with photos of Miss Cs car, that it could consider.
The independent witness statement was from someone who was driving behind Miss Cs 
vehicle at the time of the accident. The independent witness said Miss Cs vehicle had 
stopped before making a right turn. It noted Miss Cs car had then pulled off into the 
oncoming traffic, and the third-party car wasnt able to stop in time, and so Miss Cs car 
collided with it. So, they thought Miss C was responsible for the collision. 
LV noted that the photographs of the damage to Miss Cs car was consistent with the above, 
independent explanation of the event. And so, it decided to settle the claim. Given the 
information LV had received and considered in relation to the loss, Im satisfied it carried out 
a fair investigation and reasonably based its decision on this information. 
Miss C has mentioned that she would feels LV should have asked her for more information 
about the loss and sought CCTV evidence. Whilst I appreciate what Miss C has said here, I 
think LV had enough information to arrive at a fair and reasonable conclusion. So, Im 
satisfied LV didnt need to do anything further in respect of the claim.
In any event, LV has now amended the entry of the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database, to note the incident was non-fault. This isnt because the loss wasnt a fault one. 
But instead it was to recognise that LV could have communicated with Miss C better.
LV has confirmed it initially told Miss C the claim would be closed and noted as non-fault. 
But it noted at the point it did this it didnt have all the information on the loss, or had a claim 
raised by a third party. And therefore, it gave confusing information. And LV said it didnt 
make it clear to Miss C what the impact of it settling the claim would be on her premium in 
following years. Given LV has altered the CUE database going forward, Im satisfied there 
isnt anything else I would require LV to do, in respect of how it has recorded the claim.
Miss C has said her premiums increased significantly during 2018 and 2019. And based on 
the renewal documentation provided to me, I can see this is the case. LV offered Miss C a 
total of £600 compensation for the fact Miss C had received a premium increase but wasnt 
told about this consequence. And to apologise for its poor communication. 
So, Ive needed to consider whether this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And Im satisfied it is. Miss Cs premiums would likely have increased anyway during those 
years. The incident in November 2017 is something she would have needed to declare on 
her policies, regardless of how this is categorised on CUE now. In 2019 Miss C also had a 
significantly different car to insure, having changed her vehicle. And this, along with several 
other factors, will likely have been considered in Miss Cs renewal policy for that.
LV has made an offer, thinking about premium increases, and the upset this would have 
caused given the poor communication it provided Miss C with. And thinking about the overall 
impact this had of Miss C, Im satisfied £600 fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I dont think LV need to refund any of the premium Miss C paid, given the 
information regarding the claim was correct at the time, and LV did actually settle the claim 
on a fault basis. So, I dont require LV to increase the compensation offered here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I think Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds offer 
of £600 is fair and reasonable, as was its decision to change the categorisation of the claim 
to non-fault. 
Neither party has disputed that categorisation of the claim has already been changed.
So, its left to say that I require it to pay Miss C the £600 compensation, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman