DRN-1977928
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about Phoenix Life Limited cancelling his life assurance policy.
What happened
In 1998 Mr A took out a term assurance policy with Phoenix Life. The policy was set up over 
a 40-year term and it covered Mr A in the event of his death or, if he suffered from a terminal 
or serious illness. 
The premiums payments for October, November and December 2014 werent paid. Phoenix 
Life wrote to Mr A on 8 December 2014 to inform him that, due to the missed payments, the 
cover on this policy had ceased. They further explained that the policy could be reinstated 
any time within 13 months from the last premium paid date of 8 September 2014  providing 
all outstanding payments are made. 
Mr A contacted Phoenix Life in August 2019 to enquire about the policy. Phoenix Life 
explained the policy was no longer active and that theyd written to Mr A on several 
occasions to inform him of the missed payments at the time.  
Mr A complained to Phoenix Life. He said these letters were never received and questioned 
why he wasnt called about the matter. Mr A explained that the cancellation of his policy had 
left him in a vulnerable position, without cover, and he requested for it to be reinstated. 
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint and were unable to reinstate the policy. They said 
they sent Mr A several letters regarding the missed premiums on his policy. These included 
a letter of 11 November 2014 informing him that they were unable to collect his direct debit 
payment. A letter of 8 December 2014 and also a letter of 11 February 2015 which 
confirmed the outstanding amount and that the policy had to be reinstated by no later than 7 
November 2015.
Phoenix Life added that they couldnt accept Mr A hadnt received these as hed responded 
to their letter of 8 December 2014 asking them to confirm how much he owed. And that this 
request prompted their letter of 11 February 2015. Phoenix Life also explained that they 
didnt hold a telephone number for Mr A at the time so were unable to call him. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but she 
didnt think Phoenix Life had acted unfairly by cancelling the policy. She said Phoenix Life 
had provided screenshots to show the letters were sent and, as they were addressed 
correctly, she didnt think she could hold them responsible if they werent received by Mr A. 
That said, she thought it was more likely he had received them given the 8 December 2014 
letter had been returned with handwritten comments. And so, while Mr A also disputes the 
signature and handwriting on the letter is his, on balance, she thought it was more likely 
returned from someone residing at Mr As property. 
Our investigator also explained that she didnt think it was unreasonable for Phoenix Life to 
inform Mr A of the missed premiums payments in writing. So, she didnt think Phoenix Life 
had acted wrongly. And, as many years had passed since the policy lapsed, she didnt think 
she could fairly ask Phoenix Life to reinstate the policy.
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A says the cancellation of his life assurance policy has left him, and his 
family, in a vulnerable position. But while I sympathise with Mr As situation, I must consider 
whether Phoenix Life acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policy. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr A but, having done so, I dont think have. Let me explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr As premium payments between October and December 2014 were 
missed. Phoenix Life sent letters to Mr A in October and November 2014 informing him that 
they were unable to collect the direct debit payments. This was followed by their December 
2014 that explained, as theyd not received the outstanding premiums, cover had ceased. 
Although Mr A disputes receiving these letters they were correctly addressed and, from the 
evidence Phoenix Life has provided, Im satisfied they were sent. As the vast majority of post 
is successfully delivered, I think its more likely than not they were received. But if they 
werent then I dont think I can fairly hold Phoenix Life responsible for that.
In any event, Mr A was required to pay the policy premiums for the cover to remain in place. 
So, it was his responsibility to ensure this happened otherwise Phoenix Life were within their 
rights, as per the terms of the policy, to stop providing cover. I appreciate Mr A says that had 
he been aware premiums were owed at the time then he wouldve paid them. But Phoenix 
Life didnt have a telephone number for him at the time and I dont think it was unreasonable 
for them to inform Mr A of the outstanding premium payments in writing. 
Im aware Mr A also disputes the handwriting and signature on the letter of 8 December 
2014 that was returned to Phoenix Life is his. While I cant be certain who returned this 
letter, I dont think it changes the fact that the premium payments were missed. And, as the 
letter was correctly addressed to Mr As property, I see no reason why Phoenix Life wouldve 
had any reason to question it had been returned by anyone other than Mr A. So, I wouldnt 
have expected them to check the handwriting or signature of the letter against any they 
might have held on file.
It therefore follows that, as the premium payments were missed, I dont think Phoenix Life 
has acted unfairly  or outside the terms of the policy  by ceasing to provide cover. And as 
the policy can only be reinstated within one year of the last premium being paid, Phoenix Life 
isnt obligated to offer this to Mr A now.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr A is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Phoenix Life has unfairly cancelled Mr As policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Daniel O'DellOmbudsman