DRN-2412935
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the repair estimate Covea Insurance plc obtained on his car 
under his motor policy following an accident.
 
What happened
Mr L was involved in accident in February 2020. He notified Covea who instructed its 
approved repairer to provide an estimate of the damage his car sustained in the accident.
This approved repairer decided the damaged sustained meant Mr Ls car was uneconomical 
to repair and that it be deemed a total loss under a category n. Mr L didnt agree with this 
repair estimate as it he believed it was detailing work to parts his car simply didnt have. This 
also meant Covea then updated the Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud and Theft Register 
(MIAFTR) as it had to do in these situations, and it looked at the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). It discovered Mr L had a non-fault claim from March 2018 and an open 
claim since January 2016 of which it wasnt aware.
Mr L said those claims against his insurance record were fraudulent, due to him being the 
victim of identity theft. Covea said it would reconsider the repair quote if Mr L obtained one 
himself, but it couldnt deal with his claim unless it investigated these two claims registered 
on Mr Ls insurance record. 
Mr L obtained his own repair quote which was £3,605 less than the one prepared by Coveas 
approved repairers. Mr L went ahead with the repairs to his car himself and complained to 
Covea as he wasnt happy with the over inflated quote from the approved repairers and he 
wanted the category n marker removed from his car.
Covea said as his insurer its duty under the principle of indemnity was to put Mr L back in 
the same position he was in before the accident. It didnt think his repair estimate did that. If 
Mr L didnt make a claim under his policy his No Claim Discount (NCD) would be disallowed 
unless the original quote from its approved repairers was covered.
So, Mr L brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Mr Ls complaint 
should be upheld in part and it was evident that Mr Ls car didnt have a part which the quote 
said needed repair. He said if Mr L decided to make a claim now, Covea should reassess its 
approved repairers estimate.
Covea accepted the investigators view, Mr L didnt so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part, Ill now explain why. 
Theres no doubt in my mind that mistakes were made by Coveas approved repairer in 
detailing the damage to be repaired. As its clear from the investigators investigation that Mr 
Ls car never had a front spoiler which the approved repairer said would cost £828.17 to 
replace. In my view, that casts dispersions on the veracity of the approved repairers 
estimate. So, I can understand Mr Ls concern over this, very much so.
Against that, Mr Ls own repair estimate wasnt done formally on the usual system so its 
very difficult to compare and contrast very easily, except for the fact the approved repairers 
estimate to repair Mr Ls car was a total of £10,098.66 inclusive of VAT and Mr Ls own 
repairer said it would cost £6,493.20. Given Covea said the market value of Mr Ls car was 
£16,576.00, clarifying the repair estimates is rather important on the basis Covea doesnt 
repair a car if the repair costs exceed 60% of the market value. 
As Covea agreed with the investigators assessment, this means if Mr L was to decide now 
to make a claim under his policy with Covea, its approved repairers estimate would be 
reassessed. Covea should be aware consequently, that its very likely in my view that then 
the category n marker could possibly be removed. As I think the repair estimate (albeit its 
not done in the usual format) from Mr Ls own repairer is so much lower, so that coupled with 
the fact Coveas approved repairers were quoting for parts simply not on Mr Ls car does 
raise veracity issues on the approved repairers estimate. Mr L wants Covea to do this 
without him making a formal claim, but I dont consider thats appropriate. On the basis of the 
repair estimate, Covea had a duty to record the car as total loss. It can only change that if Mr 
L goes through the claims process. Coveas requirement over the principle of indemnity is 
also correct and there is nothing wrong with this either.
There are claims on Mr Ls insurance record which do need to be sorted out before Covea 
can consider Mr Ls claim. Theres nothing wrong with Coveas requirement to clarify these 
claims either. As it wasnt Mr Ls insurer at the time of the claims it cant investigate them 
without Mr Ls cooperation and liaising with his previous insurers. Mr L has stated he was the 
victim of identity theft so if thats the case and these claims are indeed fraudulent then they 
should be able to be removed from his record which in turn shows he didnt deliberately not 
tell Covea about them and they should then have no impact on his claim.
My final decision
 So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Covea Insurance plc to do the following:
If Mr L now wishes to make a claim, it should reassess its approved repairer estimate 
in view of the parts were listed which simply werent on Mr Ls car with a view to 
assessing carefully if the category n marker can be removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman