DRN-2831050
The complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have declined a theft claim on her motor 
insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the time its taken AXA to resolve the claim. And 
that shes had to continue to pay the premiums for a car she no longer has.
 
What happened
Mrs Ms car was stolen in April 2019. It hasnt been recovered. Mrs M made a claim on her 
AXA motor insurance policy. 
AXA declined the claim. It said that because shed told them the spare keys were left in a 
jacket pocket in the unlocked porch while she was away from the house this was a failure to 
safeguard the keys and vehicle. This was a breach of her policy conditions. 
Mrs M complained to AXA, requesting the settlement for her stolen car. In their August 2019 
final response letter, they didnt uphold her complaint. They said shed failed to protect her 
vehicle and that she hadnt complied with the terms and conditions of her policy. So they 
considered theyd acted fairly. 
Mrs M did initially think that the spare key had been used for the theft. But in October 2019 
she told AXA shed found the spare key. There was no progress on her claim until February 
2020 when AXA told her they would need to see the spare key. But they didnt arrange to get 
it - and the main key - until June 2020. 
AXA had a specialist locksmith look at the spare key and the main key. Their analysis found 
the main key to be genuine. But they felt the spare key wasnt the original spare. They said it 
had no electronic circuitry so wouldnt start or drive the car. They noted that the car had 
been bought from a legitimate dealer who wouldnt have sold the car with a spare key like 
that. So they continued to decline to settle the theft claim.
Mrs M complained to AXA again. She didnt agree with their decision to decline her claim. 
And she felt that theyd caused delays to her claim. AXA issued two further final response 
letters, both dated 24 July 2020. Both upheld the complaint about delays to the claim. But 
AXA still considered theyd fairly and reasonably declined to settle the claim. 
So Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator felt that AXA had acted 
fairly when theyd declined to settle the claim. But she felt that AXA hadnt resolved the claim 
as quickly as it couldve. So she recommended AXA pay £150 compensation for the delays 
she felt theyd caused.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review. She felt AXA should pay her claim. 
So her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The repudiation of the theft claim
Theres no dispute that Mrs Ms car was stolen. What is in dispute is whether AXA acted 
fairly and reasonably when they declined to settle Mrs Ms theft claim. Having looked at all 
the evidence, I think they did. Ill explain why. 
Its not our role to determine exactly how the theft was carried out. But we can look into 
whether AXA have complied with the policy terms or exercised their discretion unfairly or 
unreasonably when deciding not to deal with Mrs Ms claim as theyve done. 
Under the terms of the policy AXA doesnt cover theft unless all keys needed to lock it are 
kept safely. In this case Mrs M held the main key. When she first reported the theft, she said 
the spare key had been kept in a jacket pocket in an unlocked porch. Based on this, I 
consider that AXAs initial repudiation of the theft claim - due to the failure to safeguard the 
keys and the vehicle - was fair. At that point, on balance of probabilities, it was likely that the 
car had been taken with the spare key, which had been easy to steal from the unlocked 
porch. 
But in October 2019 Mrs M told AXA that shed found the spare key. If that was correct, AXA 
could no longer say that the spare key had been used to steal the car. So AXA had that key 
analysed. I consider this was a reasonable step for AXA to take given the time that had 
passed since the car had been stolen.
Mrs M sent AXA both the main key and the spare key shed found for analysis. I have no 
reason to doubt the results of this analysis, which was carried out by an independent 
locksmith. They reported that the main key was a genuine working key. But they found the 
spare key to be a non-genuine aftermarket remote case only. They confirmed that this key 
could operate the locks on the vehicle but wouldnt be able to start and drive the vehicle, due 
to the lack of electronic circuit board within the remote. They also confirmed that there 
wouldve been a minimum of two keys provided with Mrs Ms car when new. Mrs M had 
separately confirmed that shed bought the car from new. And that shed been provided with 
two keys. 
The locksmiths report also stated that it wouldve been difficult to steal the car without a key. 
They said: To the best of our current knowledge the only other possible options are for a 
thief to uplift the vehicle and overcome or replace the programmed system, or alternatively to 
have the ability, sufficient time and be in possession of specialist automotive programming or 
diagnostic equipment to overcome the system in situ.
Based on the locksmiths report, AXA concluded on the available evidence that thered been 
a failure to safeguard the keys and vehicle.  As the car hasnt been recovered it isnt possible 
to say if the spare key was used in the theft. But based on the locksmiths report, I consider 
that the spare key is still missing. So Im satisfied that its likely on balance that the car was 
taken using the spare key. 
Based on all the evidence, Im persuaded that the spare key was left in the unlocked porch. 
This meant the terms and conditions of the policy were breached. 
Mrs M may disagree with AXAs interpretation of the evidence and decision not to deal with 
the claim. But I dont think theyve failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised their 
discretion unfairly or unreasonably. I think they had sufficient and reasonable evidence to 
suggest the spare key hadnt been safeguarded. And that it was more likely the spare key 
was used in the theft of the car, than not. So I wont be asking AXA to settle the theft claim.Continuation of premium payments after the theft
Mrs M would like AXA to refund her premium. She feels that she shouldnt have had to 
continue to pay for the policy after her car was stolen. 
Mrs M had insurance cover for her car through AXA. She made a claim. Even though AXA 
declined to settle the claim, they did incur costs. So I cant ask AXA to provide a premium 
refund.
Delays to the claim
I can see that there were delays and misinformation during the claim. AXA acknowledged 
these in their 24 July 2020 final response letter. They agreed that minimal work on the claim 
was carried out between October 2019 and February 2020. And it took a long time for AXA 
to arrange for the analysis of the newly found spare key.
Mrs M has told us that she was never told if the car was recovered. And she wasnt told by 
AXA that theyd received her keys.
Im satisfied that AXA couldve processed the claim more quickly. So Im going to require 
them to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused her.
Overall, although I know Mrs M has said that her keys werent left unsecured, I dont think on 
the currently available evidence I can fairly or reasonably now require AXA to deal with her 
claim as shed like. 
I realise my final decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs M. But I would urge AXA to 
reconsider the claim if the car is recovered and the theft is shown to have been carried out 
by a method that didnt use the spare key. 
 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused her.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman