DRN-4165853
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, will not process a 
refund for a transaction with a hire car company.
What happened
Mr E hired a car, and had a rental voucher from a third party which hes explained included 
insurance. But when he went to the car rental desk, he was asked to pay for insurance. He 
did so, reluctantly, but would like Barclaycard to refund the amount he paid for this 
insurance, as he feels it was an overpayment.
As Barclaycard didnt agree, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld, as she was satisfied that Mr H had authorised the payment 
and that it was genuine.
Mr E disagreed. He feels he has paid twice for basic insurance cover, which is unfair and 
unscrupulous. He only agreed to pay it because his wife witnessed what was said.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr E, but Ill explain 
why. Although Ive considered all of the submissions made, I wont refer to every one here. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy. Rather, Ive discussed what I consider goes to the heart 
of the complaint.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable of Barclaycard not to raise a chargeback. This was 
because Mr E was aware of what he was paying for and he verified the transaction using his 
PIN. The chargeback scheme is voluntary, but Id expect a business to raise one if there was 
a reasonable chance of success. Here, Im satisfied there wasnt.
Barclaycard also explained it couldnt refund Mr E under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. This was because theres no evidence of breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
I agree. Theres no evidence that there was any breach of contract, or that Mr E wasnt 
getting the cover he was paying for. For there to be a misrepresentation, it would need to be 
the case that Mr E would not have entered into the agreement, had he known that something 
that had been said/agreed to was untrue. This isnt the case here. He decided to go ahead 
with the transaction, because hes explained he wanted to get to the car and get out of the 
heat. Whilst I can understand this, its still the case that he agreed to the transaction at the 
time. Although it was quite possibly a bad bargain, this isnt something I can fairly require 
Barclaycard to reimburse him for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and despite my sympathy for Mr Es situation, its my final 
decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman