DRN-3426977
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how long Metro Bank PLC took to deal with unauthorised transactions 
on his account.  
What happened
Mr G noticed unauthorised transactions on his account and raised them with Metro Bank. He 
says he was told hed have the money returned to him within 10 days but that didnt happen.  
Mr G had to travel abroad in the meantime. Hes explained that being without the funds 
caused him inconvenience and he had to repeatedly call Metro Bank to find out what was 
happening. Mr G also mentioned he had to sell his work phone while abroad to raise money 
to cover the costs of necessary expenses. He complained to Metro Bank about these 
matters, saying he wanted it to cover the costs of his calls from abroad and to reimburse him 
the cost of the phone he later had to purchase. 
Metro Bank investigated his complaint and agreed that its adviser did imply that it should be 
able to complete its investigations in ten days, when that cant be guaranteed. However, 
Mr G was provided with the correct information a couple of days later. It also acknowledged 
Mr Gs frustrations that he wasnt always able to speak to the individual whod left him a 
message. It explained that it initially hadnt updated its system with Mr Gs new contact 
number so it was unable to reach him when returning his calls, so it sent him an email 
instead with a request for him to call again. It offered Mr G £75 compensation. Mr G didnt 
accept this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked in the case and agreed that Mr G had been inconvenienced by Metro 
Banks actions and that given the reason he was abroad, being without the funds added to 
his frustrations. She recommended that Metro Bank pay Mr G £100 compensation and 
refund the cost of the calls he made, subject to him providing evidence. She explained she 
wouldnt recommend Metro Bank pay the cost of the phone, as it was Mr Gs choice to sell it. 
Mr G initially agreed the complaint could be settled in this way but was unable to provide an 
itemised statement for all of the calls that were made from each of the phones he used. He 
provided evidence that he was billed for £250 foreign calls on one number and incurred 
costs on a pay as you go (PAYG) phone. He said he expects Metro Bank to cover those 
costs. Metro Bank said it searched its systems for the numbers Mr G had given it and 
refunded the costs for the calls it could find which totalled £138.60. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision as he wants all of his call 
costs covered, as well as the cost of the phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only thing left for me to decide is how this complaint should be settled.
Im satisfied that Metro Bank did make an error in suggesting Mr G may have his money 
returned to him within 10 days. And given the wider circumstances of why he was abroad, I 
understand why the absence of this money would have caused Mr G distress and frustration. 
Especially when he continued to call and either he wasnt able to speak to the person that 
had left him a message, or the position hadnt changed.  However, I also take into account 
that the correct position was explained to Mr G within a couple of days, and as such it was 
his choice to make the amount of calls that he did. Overall, however I do think compensation 
is due and I think £100 is fair and reasonable here.  
I asked Mr G to provide me with the phone numbers he called Metro Bank from so I could 
ask it to do a further search of its system. I also asked him to provide evidence of the top ups 
made to the PAYG phone. However, for whatever reason he did not do so. Ive therefore 
made my decision based on the information available to me. 
As no evidence has been provided of the top ups made to the mobile phone, I wont be 
asking Metro Bank to make any payment for these.
With regard to the bill for £250. While I accept some of those calls may have been to Metro 
Bank, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask it to reimburse Mr G the whole amount. I 
say that as because the itemised bill Mr G was able to provide showed calls being made 
internationally to other numbers not owned by Metro Bank.  
Metro Bank has reimbursed Mr G for costs of the calls it has been able to trace so I think it 
has acted fairly and reasonably here. So based on the evidence available to me, and for the 
reasons Ive set out above I wont be asking it to make any further payments here.
Having considered everything, I agree Metro Bank made an error however I wont be asking 
it to do anything more than it has already agreed to. 
Putting things right
To matters right, if it has not already done so Metro Bank should make the following 
payments to Mr G:
- £100 compensation
- The cost of calls it has calculated to be £138.60 (£101.59 and £37.01)
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Metro Bank PLC and direct it to 
put matters right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman