DRN-2188496
The complaint
Miss H says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss H bought the policy in 2001 in connection with a credit agreement she took out to buy 
electrical goods. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 I think AXA made Miss H aware she had a choice about buying the PPI and she 
chose to take it. I say this because there was a separate section about PPI on the 
credit agreement, and Miss H signed that section to show that she wanted the cover. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting 
the credit she wanted. 
 AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Miss H had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Miss H, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Miss H says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Miss 
Hs employer benefits, and wouldve meant she couldve used her sick pay to cover 
other expenses. And it wouldve meant Miss H didnt have to rely on her friends and 
family. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her.
 Its possible the information AXA gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Miss H would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman