DRN-4340409
The complaint
Miss S complains that Marshmallow Insurance Limited declined her claim on her motor 
insurance policy following the theft of her car. She said this is causing her financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
Miss Ss car was stolen, and she made a claim on her policy. But Marshmallow declined the 
claim as it said CCTV footage showed that the car had been unlocked at the time. It said the 
policys terms and conditions didnt cover theft in such circumstances. But Miss S said the 
car had been locked and the thief must have used a cloned key to gain entry, and he had 
overridden the immobiliser. Miss S said she had to repay the cars outstanding finance and 
buy a replacement car, and this was causing her financial difficulties and stress. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that a key 
report showed that the keys didnt hold data to show when the keys had been used to lock 
the car. He thought Marshmallow had reasonably considered the CCTV footage. This 
showed the wing mirrors already open, and the lights didnt flash when the thief approached. 
So he thought it was more likely than not that the car had been unlocked at the time. And so 
he thought Marshmallow had reasonably declined the claim in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. 
Miss S replied that if her battery was flat then the wing mirrors would be out. She said the 
thief used electronic means to enter the car. She said the thief would have needed a cloned 
key to drive off as the immobiliser would otherwise have prevented this. Miss S asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss S feels frustrated by Marshmallows decision to decline her claim. 
And I can see that she has had to wait some time while this matter has been investigated. 
She has explained that the declined claim has caused her a financial burden. And I was 
sorry to hear this.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Marshmallow relied on two of the policys terms and conditions included in the policy booklet 
to decline the claim. Under Section 6- Loss or damage to the Insured Vehicle it states that 
Marshmallow wont cover:
Loss of or damage to the insured vehicle and/or in- vehicle entertainment, communication 
and navigation equipment while you are not in the vehicle arising from theft or attempted 
theft when...
the insured vehicle has not been secured by means of door and boot lock.
And under Section 4: General Conditions it states that:
You or any person in charge of the insured vehicle are required to take all reasonable care 
to safeguard it and its contents from loss or damage, for example the vehicle should not be 
left Unlocked.
I think these are a common conditions in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them to 
be unusual or unreasonable. They are significant but as they are common then I would 
expect them to be set out in the policy wording as they are. So I think its reasonable for 
Marshmallow to rely on the conditions to decline a claim. 
Marshmallow said Miss Ss car had been stolen because it had been left unlocked. This is a 
breach of the policys terms and conditions which would entitle it to decline a claim. So Ive 
considered whether it reached this decision fairly and reasonably. 
When Miss S reported the theft, she described the circumstances. She said her car had 
been parked and locked on her driveway immediately in front of her house during the day. 
The cars two keys were kept in a black box inside the house to prevent duplication of the 
signal and Miss S still had both keys. 
Miss S provided CCTV footage which showed the thief approaching the car and entering it 
without difficulty. No tools were evident, but he may have held something in his hand. The 
cars wing mirrors were already out, and the lights didnt flash. Marshmallow said this 
indicated that the car had been left unlocked as even a cloned key would cause the lights to 
flash if it had been used to unlock the car. And the wing mirrors would have folded in when 
the car was locked. After some fiddling under the steering column, the thief drove off in the 
car after stalling it once. 
Miss S thought her car had been targeted and would have been stolen whether it had been 
locked or unlocked. But I think Marshmallow reasonably considered this and decided that 
locking the car would have likely deterred the theft due to the extra time and effort it would 
have taken the thief to enter the car. So Im satisfied that the unlocked car made a theft more 
likely. 
Miss S drove her car earlier on the day it was stolen. So I havent seen evidence that it had a 
flat battery that may have caused the wing mirrors to fold out, as she thought they would 
have done. 
Miss S also thought a cloned key had been used as the thief had to deactivate the 
immobiliser. She said this was shown by the car stalling shortly after the thief started it. But I 
think Marshmallow considered this point and reasonably responded that if a cloned key had 
been used, the thief would have had to duplicate the signal again to restart the engine. But 
he didnt do so, which Marshmallow thought indicated that the car had been hotwired. Also, 
Miss S explained that the keys were stored to prevent cloning. 
Unfortunately the cars keys didnt hold any data to show that it had been locked. The car 
hasnt been recovered. So the cars own computer cant be analysed. And Miss S didnt 
retain any footage to show her last exiting the car and locking it. So I cant see that theres 
further evidence that Marshmallow should have considered. 
So Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the car had been left unlocked at the time of 
the theft. And I think Marshmallow declined the claim fairly and reasonably as Miss S had 
failed to safeguard her car as she was required to do by the policys terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman