DRN-2976953
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took too long to process the transfer 
of two ISAs from another provider.
Mr S would like appropriate compensation for the stress, time and loss of earnings in trying 
to resolve his complaint.
What happened
On 5 November 2020, Mr S started an online request to transfer two ISAs from another 
provider to his account at Barclays. Mr S sent the forms to Barclays on 6 November 2020.
Mr S contacted Barclays on 11 and 16 November 2020 to chase the progress of his 
transfers as previously he had had cause to complain about ISA Transfers. Mr S was given 
incorrect information about the progress of his transfers.
Due to an error at Barclays, these forms were not processed correctly and were put into a 
different queue and could not be located.
Barclays found the transfer forms on 18 December 2020 and sent them to the other provider. 
The transfers were completed on 5 and 6 January 2021.
Mr S complained to Barclays about the length of time that his transfers had taken. Barclays 
investigated the complaint and upheld it. Barclays offered Mr S £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience that he had faced.
Unhappy with Barclays final decision, Mr S referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators looked at his complaint. The investigator thought that Barclays had 
attempted to resolve the complaint and their compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
The details surrounding the complaint are understood by both parties and Barclays have 
admitted that the transfer process took too long as a result of errors on their part. It is not my 
intention to go over this part of the complaint in detail but will focus on whether Mr S suffered 
any financial loss and whether the compensation was fair.
In their submission to the service, Barclays have said that there were sufficient funds in      
Mr S account for trading purposes so there was no loss of opportunity. I acknowledge that 
Mr S had available cash in his account, but the important factor is that he did not have 
access to the cash amount that was due from the transfers. 
I dont agree with Barclays when they say that there was no loss of opportunity as there was 
cash in Mr S account  I think the only test of this is whether Mr S contacted Barclays to 
attempt to trade or make it clear that he wanted to trade.
I wrote to both Mr S and Barclays to find out if there was any record of Mr S contacting 
Barclays about wanting to trade but being unable to trade as his transfers had not 
completed.
Barclays said that they had no record of Mr S contacting them to say he wanted to trade.
Mr S did not respond to the investigators initial email and did not respond to the chaser 
email that was sent. As a result, I can only look at the evidence that I have on file and what 
is likely to have happened on the balance of probability.
When looking at any missed investment opportunity, there needs to be clear evidence that 
Mr S wanted to trade but was prevented from doing so. I consider that not being able to 
access his transfer balances was preventing him from trading, but I also need to consider 
whether Mr S made any attempt to trade.
I have not seen any evidence from the documentation available to me that suggests Mr S 
contacted Barclays to say he was looking to trade but could not as the transfer balances 
were not available to him. I sympathise with Mr S but without evidence that shows he wanted 
to purchase investments, I cant see that Barclays have caused him to miss any investment 
opportunity.
Barclays offered Mr S £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delays to his 
transfers. In his submission to the service, Mr S has asked for loss of earnings when having 
to deal with chasing up the transfers. The service is not able to compensate consumers at 
their normal working rate but will look at what is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset that has been caused.
Mr S has also said that previous complaints have resulted in higher compensation 
payments. The service will look at each complaint on its own merits so Im not going to 
compare previous awards made.
I think the offer of compensation of £150 from Barclays is fair and reasonable. Mr S had 
issues previously with Barclays and had to contact them in order to get the transfer process 
moving. This will have caused Mr S frustration and annoyance.
In summary, Barclays made an error when processing Mr S transfer requests and made an 
offer of compensation for the inconvenience caused that I think is fair and reasonable. 
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr S missed out on any investment opportunity 
so Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything else here.
Mr S is free to contact Barclays separately to accept the offer of compensation if he has not 
already done so. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman