DRN-3851840
The complaint
Miss I complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss I applied for a credit card with Capital One in February 2017. The credit card account 
was opened with a credit limit of £200 which was increased in February 2021 to £950. Miss I 
also opened another credit card account with Capital One in January 2018. This card had a 
limit of £200 and was never increased. 
Miss I says that Capital One shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt 
take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. 
She says Capital One didnt check it was affordable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Is complaint. They didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Miss I disagreed. She said that benefits received on behalf of her son shouldnt have been 
taken into consideration when the adjudicator assessed her financial circumstances at the 
time the accounts were opened. 
As Miss I didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Is complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Capital 
One acted unfairly and lent to Miss I irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss I 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Is borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Capital One has provided a copy of the checks it completed when opening Miss Is account. 
It says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss I in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Capital One saw that Miss I had around £2,800 of debt with other 
lenders and she was managing repayments for those debts well. Records showed that Miss 
I had defaulted on other credit, but this was many years before this application. Miss I had 
declared an income of £16,400 as a self-employed hairdresser. 
Given the very low amount of lending - £200  I think Capital One made appropriate checks 
which were proportionate to the lending. 
Similarly, when Miss I applied for another credit card with Capital One about 11 months later, 
Capital One made the same type of checks. Again, I think these were appropriate and 
proportionate for the credit it extended  another £200. Miss Is circumstances were very 
similar to those a year earlier. Her external borrowing had increased by about £2,000 but 
she also declared an increase in her income to £18,600. Credit checks did not show any 
evidence of missed payments, arrears, defaults or CCJs.
  
In February 2021 Miss I was offered a credit limit increase on her first card, which she 
actively accepted. The increase was £750 which brought her entire available credit with 
Capital One to a total of £1,150.
Miss I declared an annual income of £36,000, providing a net income of about £2,375. She 
declared a monthly rent or mortgage of £750 and other essential expenditure was modelled 
using Office of National Statistics data. Credit checks showed Miss I was paying around £82 
a month to service other debts. The results of these checks indicated Miss I had Miss I had 
no CCJs, arrears or defaults. Miss I had not missed a payment on either of her Capital One 
credit cards in the 24 months preceding the increase. 
Again, I consider that the checks Capital One did were necessary and proportionate. On the 
evidence of the checks and from information provided by Miss I, I think Capital One made a 
fair and reasonable decision to increase Miss Is credit limit.
Our adjudicator also looked at Miss Is bank statements from around the time of each 
lending decision. While I dont think this was necessary because I think Capital One did all 
the checks it needed to do, the bank statements show that Miss Is income was almost 
entirely from benefits. Miss I argues that a large part of the money going into her account 
was Disability Living Allowance, which was for her child, and intimates it should not have 
been considered as her income.
Miss I had told Capital One on each borrowing occasion that she had an income as a self-
employed hairdresser. Miss I says she doesnt know why an income was declared or why 
she said she was a self-employed hairdresser. She says someone else did the applications 
for her because she wasnt very good at using a computer. 
I dont accept that because Miss I mis-declared her income and employment that Capital 
One should be held responsible in any way. Capital One was entitled to rely on information 
provided in the application, and if someone else completed her applications Miss I was 
responsible for checking the information supplied was correct.
 
On the information available to me I dont think Capital One was unfair in the way it treated 
Miss I. I think Capital One did proportionate checks each time it made a lending  and acted 
on the results of those checks appropriately. I dont think Miss I lost out as a result of 
anything Capital One did wrong. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Is complaint. It follows that 
Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman