DRN-3414314
The complaint
Mrs G complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided a loan 
that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs G took out a loan with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date 
takenLoan amount 
receivedTotal amount 
payableTerm Monthly 
repaymentsLoan 
status
7/8/2020 £1,000 £4,114.08 18 months £228.56 in debt 
collection
Mrs G brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In brief summary, Mrs G said Loans 2 Go didnt do proper checks before lending. She also 
told us she had numerous loans at the time and her circumstances were very difficult and 
she wasnt in the right frame of mind when she took these out. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Gs complaint. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view and her interpretation of the information 
shown on the credit report it obtained. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 
Go relied on when it decided to lend to Mrs G. 
Loans 2 Go asked Mrs G about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
Mrs G declared her monthly pay was around £1,350. Relying on this figure and taking into 
account what Mrs G had said about her monthly expenditure, and what its credit checks 
showed, Loans 2 Go calculated that Mrs G shouldve been able to afford the monthly 
repayment on this loan. 
I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that there seemed to be a lack of 
detailed credit history information. Many of the entries, including some important information 
that a responsible lender might reasonably have wanted to find out about, didnt record 
anything useful. That said however, there was some information shown  and I think its fair 
to say that the information that was shown wasnt unduly worrying. The total balance on all 
Mrs Gs accounts in the last month was recorded as £1,445, which I think wasnt an 
excessive or particularly surprising amount for someone in Mrs Gs financial situation. It 
looked like she had opened only one account in the previous 12 months. And although she 
had a credit card close to its £1,000 credit limit she was maintaining this account well and up 
to date with payments. Set against this, she had several thousands of pounds worth of 
unused credit available on her mail order accounts. 
Although our adjudicator thought that Mrs G was paying a significant proportion of her 
income towards servicing debt I think she had misread the information shown on the credit 
checks that Loans 2 Go had acquired. I dont think that Loans 2 Go wouldve had any reason 
to think Mrs Gs active accounts meant she had to spend an unreasonable or 
disproportionate amount of her take home pay just on servicing her debt.  
I dont know what steps Loans 2 Go took to verify the figures Mrs G had declared. But I dont 
think there was any particular reason for Loans 2 Go to think it couldnt rely on what Mrs G 
had said in support of her application. And whilst there was some adverse credit history and 
it was evident that Mrs G had certainly had some money problems, these did seem to be in 
the past and had been resolved. Im mindful also that having an impaired credit history 
wouldnt be unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing  and it 
wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending if the loan otherwise looked affordable. 
There were no particular entries on Mrs Gs credit file as far as I can see that would have 
pointed to continuing money problems and there was no adverse information shown 
suggesting that she was affected by bankruptcy or in an active arrangement with her 
creditors or that there were any active county court judgements.
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to 
lend. I must be impartial and fair to both parties. On balance, bearing in mind this was Mrs Gs 
first loan application to Loans 2 Go, she was applying for a relatively small loan amount 
and given the 18 months term and the low level of monthly repayments compared to her 
take home pay, I think the checks Loans 2 Go did were, broadly speaking, enough for it 
to agree this loan. And even if Loans 2 Go shouldve done more in-depth checks before 
lending, I havent seen enough to make me think this is likely to have shown that the 
loan shouldnt have been provided. 
To sum up, as things stand, I cant fairly say that Loans 2 Go wasnt reasonably entitled 
to rely on the information it gathered or take at face value what Mrs G told it about her 
financial circumstances. And I think the lending decision it made to provide this loan 
wasnt unfair based on the information Loans 2 Go could see.
So for these reasons I dont plan to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mrs G in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. I am very sorry that Mrs G feels she wasnt able to 
make sensible lending decisions at the time and I can understand why she felt her 
circumstances were so difficult for her. But I dont think the lender had any real reason to 
think that she wasnt competent to enter into the loan agreement. She needed to actively 
engage in the application process and she gave a plausible reason for needing to borrow. 
I think its fair to say that the loan agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the 
interest rate was and how much she would have to pay if the loan ran to term. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs G was aware she was taking a high cost loan on 
terms she seemed happy to agree to at the time So I cant reasonably say that the high cost 
of this credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint or award any redress. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs G, but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. And if Mrs G would like 
help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice and 
other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs G has said again that she doesnt understand how a loan with that much interest is 
acceptable but she hasnt sent me any further information.
Loans 2 Go has told me it has nothing further to add.
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its fair and reasonable for me to 
proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman