DRN-2523939
The complaint
Mrs R complains that a car she obtained on hire purchase from BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited (BMW) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says too that the dealership did not 
carry out work that it had agreed to do in order to bring the car up to a satisfactory standard. 
She doesnt believe that BMW has done enough to put things right. Mrs R has been 
represented by her husband, Mr R.
What happened
Mrs R took delivery of her car in February 2020. The cash price of the car was nearly
£20,000; its mileage was around 70,000 and it had been first registered in September 2013,
so was over six years old at the time.
Mrs R says that she experienced problems with the car, which she noticed when she was
driving it home. In particular, she noticed noises from the nearside of the car. Mrs Rs
husband contacted both the dealership and BMW to report the problem.
When Mr R contacted the dealership, he said that it had told him it would carry out any 
required works if it was not issuing a new MOT. The dealership responded that it had carried 
out a full vehicle health check and that it would have fixed any faults it had identified. He also 
complained about the time it had taken to arrange finance  in part it seems because the 
dealership had initially recommended a different finance provider and had not been willing to 
work with a provider that Mr R had identified. Mr R also said that the car had been delivered 
with existing finance still on it.     
The car was inspected by two engineers. There was broad agreement that a driveshaft and
shock absorbers needed replacing, as well as tyres, brake discs and pads; other cosmetic
and service work was also needed. One report indicated that the cost of repairs would be
around £3,600 without replacing the drive shaft and shock absorbers; the other gave an
estimate of £6,200 for all the work.
BMW accepted that some of the items identified meant that the car was not of satisfactory
quality, as it should have been. It offered to cover the cost of replacing the front tyres (which
were the wrong size) and tyre gel and to change brake fluid and the air filter. The total cost
of repairs for these items was just under £700. The other items were, it said, parts which had
suffered wear and tear and for which it didnt think it was responsible.
The items which BMW didnt agree to cover included most of the more expensive parts 
brake discs and pads, rear tyres, driveshaft and shock absorbers.
Mrs R referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He
initially thought that BMW should cover the cost of replacement shock absorbers, drive shaft
and rear tyres, in addition to the items it had already agreed to replace. Mrs R didnt
accept that recommendation; she thought she should be able to reject the car. The 
investigator therefore reviewed matters and suggested that Mrs R should be able to reject 
the car. BMW didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In summary, I thought that some of the items that 
needed repair or replacement  but in particular the drive shaft and shock absorbers  were 
the type of repairs that might be expected in car of the age and mileage of Mrs Rs car. 
I thought however that BMW should meet the costs of replacing all the tyres. The front tyres 
were the wrong size and the rear tyres were so worn they were unsafe. I recommended that 
BMW pay Mrs R £1,250 as a contribution towards the repairs, together with a further £250 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which she had been put. 
Mrs R did not accept my provisional decision. On her behalf Mr R said, again in summary:
My provisional decision had not correctly stated the nature of the complaint and had 
dealt with some issues about which he and Mrs R had not complained.
It had not referred to all the information and evidence provided.
Mrs R had previously been told she could reject the car, but that did not now appear to 
be the case; rejection had not been discussed. 
Having agreed to resolve outstanding MOT issues, the dealership had not done so. 
The age and mileage of the car were not relevant issues, and neither were comparable 
cars of the same make.
Since I issued my provisional decision, the car had failed its MOT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to resolve disputes with minimum formality. 
In this decision, I havent therefore set out or discussed in detail each and every argument 
and piece of evidence. I can assure the parties however that I have considered carefully 
everything that has been provided. 
Further, I am required by law to determine Mrs Rs complaint by reference to what in my 
opinion is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In reaching that opinion, I must have 
regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law.
Some parts of Mrs Rs complaint are primarily about the actions of the dealership, not of 
BMW. To a degree, the dealership was acting  or was to be taken as acting  as agent for 
BMW. That does not apply however to matters unconnected with the finance arrangements 
with BMW  for example, discussions about or with other finance providers or any delay in 
introducing BMW to the arrangements.  
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the hire purchase agreement between Mrs R and 
BMW was to be read as including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality at the 
time of delivery. An item is of satisfactory quality if its of the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances. In this case, those circumstances included, in my view, 
the cars age, price and mileage. They also included any express agreement that might have 
been reached with the dealership. 
I noted in my provisional decision that the car was six years old and had a recorded mileage 
of some 70,000 at the time of delivery. I also noted that, whilst it appeared to be possible to 
obtain the same make and model for much less than the cash price of Mrs Rs car, similar 
models of a similar age generally appeared to be advertised for around £5,000 to £10,000 more. Mr R says that age, mileage and price are not relevant, but I disagree. A reasonable 
person would expect a nearly-new low-mileage car to be of a higher quality than an older, 
high-mileage vehicle. Mr R also observed that the price reflects not only general quality but 
matters such as specification. I accept that an advertisement will rarely provide the full 
picture; the point is though that Mrs Rs car was not sold as a prefect example, but neither 
was it at the lower end of what was available.   
I commented as well that, whilst many cars with a higher mileage than Mrs Rs only require 
routine maintenance, its more usual for them to need some more major work. I noted in the 
context of this complaint, for example, that shock absorbers would generally be expected to 
last around 50,000 miles and a drive shaft around 75,000 miles. In the circumstances, I 
didnt believe that the need for replacement shock absorbers, drive shaft and brake discs 
and pads meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Rather, they were the type of 
repairs that might have been expected in a car of that age and mileage. 
I must also consider what was discussed with the dealership before Mrs R took delivery of it. 
Mr R says that it agreed to resolve any outstanding MOT issues. The dealership responded 
that it had carried out a full vehicle check  which did not really address the point Mr R was 
making. 
I note that an MOT certificate was issued on 22 October 2019.It was recorded as a pass but 
noted: Nearside Rear Drive shaft joint constant velocity boot severely deteriorated Boot 
housing; and Nearside Rear Shock absorbers light misting of oil or has limited damping 
effect. The first of these was described as a minor defect which should be repaired as soon 
as possible and the second as an advisory which should be monitored and repaired if 
necessary. 
The invoice issued by the dealership included a note of additional services which had been 
carried out. They were ceramic protection and refurbishment of two wheels. Significantly in 
my view, there was no mention of the matters noted as a result of the MOT inspection. What 
is apparent from Mr Rs submissions, however, is that he knew that the drive shaft and 
shock absorbers needed attention before the car was delivered. Under the Consumer Rights 
Act, matters which are known to the consumer are not to be taken into account in deciding 
whether goods are of satisfactory quality. Having regard to the dealerships invoice and what 
it said in response to the complaint, I dont believe I can fairly say that it agreed to carry out 
repairs before delivery. 
The Consumer Rights Act provides for a number of remedies where goods are not of 
satisfactory quality. They can include rejection of the goods, repairs, a reduction in price or 
replacement. I have considered the provisions of the Act carefully  although, as I have 
explained, I am not bound to follow them. Given my findings about the main element of the 
complaint, however, I do not believe it would be fair to require BMW to accept rejection of 
the car in this case.    
I accept that the matters for which I think Mrs R should be compensated are not the main 
part of her complaint. I dont believe, however, that this is a reason not to make an award in 
respect of them. She need not accept my award if she does not wish to do so.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Mrs Rs complaint, 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should pay her £1,250 as a contribution towards the 
cost of repairs and a further £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which shes been 
put.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman