DRN-2828135
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr I payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr I disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr I have said the PPI was presented to them, in the sales meeting, as an integral 
part of the mortgage offer that Lloyds was making to them. They needed to have the 
mortgage so that they could change from their existing very high interest mortgage, and so 
felt pressured to take the package as it was presented. They say it was not made clear that 
they had the option not to take the PPI.
The problem I have, in deciding on this point, is one of the quality of evidence. I accept that 
Mrs and Mr I are adamant that the PPI was not presented clearly as optional. But I also am 
conscious that this all happened about 22 years ago and it wouldnt be surprising if someone 
didnt remember all the detail of something that long ago. This means it can be difficult to 
know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person or organisation 
has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. And I can see that, at least in the application 
form, the PPI was presented as a choice. 
I realise it would be very difficult for Mrs and Mr I to now find extra evidence to prove what 
they are saying. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold in this 
way. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr I, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Is particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Is 
situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr I (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr I received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr I would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr I in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. And Mrs and Mr I could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs and Mr I 
would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr I to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they were given a genuine choice, 
which I accept they are saying didnt happen).
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained all the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr I took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr I would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
Mr I has said that he also had the potential to do work on a self-employed basis for the 
business he ran with his wife. Given the amount of work he says he actually was doing at the 
time and his degree of involvement, I cant see that this would have affected his ability to 
claim. Also, Ive looked at the terms of this particular policy, and it didnt make it harder for a 
self-employed person to make a claim compared to an employed person. So, even if he was 
planning on moving over to self-employed work, the PPI would have covered him. 
Mrs and Mr I say they had wanted Mrs I to be covered, but were told she couldnt be 
because she was self-employed. That would appear to have been wrong advice, given what 
the policy wording says. But I would only require Lloyds to make redress if this had actually 
led to Mrs I losing out. But, fortunately, it doesnt seem as though the need arose for Mrs I to 
make to claim. So Ive not needed to assess that point. So, overall, Ive not found strong enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. But Lloyds 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr I because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs and Mr I about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mrs and Mr I, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr I. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs and Mr I any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman