DRN-3022072
The complaint
Mr N says Morses Club Plc lent to him irresponsibly. He says that Morses didnt make 
proportionate checks before approving the loans. Mr N says that if it had done it wouldnt 
have lent to him.
  
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Morses provided to Mr N between April 
2017 and February 2018. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is 
in the table below. 
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 22/09/2017 £300 33 24/04/2018
2 28/11/2017 £2,000 52 19/01/2018
3 02/02/2018 £300 33 13/07/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Morses shouldve looked into 
Mr Ns circumstances in greater detail before approving loan 2. And if it had done this it 
would have seen he had a significant amount of other high cost credit. So, it shouldnt have 
approved loans 2 and 3.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
Mr Ns repayment record was always good and he seemed in charge of his finances, 
he had a good relationship with the agent.
The information provided at the time of sale showed that the loans were affordable, it 
verified his wages. 
Mr N needed loan 2 as his other debts were causing him problems repaying his 
mortgage. So, there was a genuine need for the lending. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr N didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loan 1. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr N had with 
Morses. And its something I will take into account when considering the other loans, he 
took.
Loan 2 was a significant increase in amount and term over Mr Ns first loan. And it was a 
commitment for a further year. Added to this it was established that Mr Ns other credit was 
impacting his ability to repay his mortgage. As Ive outlined above one aspect of sustainable 
borrowing is that a consumer shouldnt need to borrow to repay other lending. And this is 
clearly what is happening here.
So, I think Morses shouldve been aware that Mr N had some longer-term financial problems 
rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. Morses 
shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ns true financial 
situation.
So, I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Ns financial situation and I 
think that Morses needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Mr N was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Morses did this. So, I need to think about what Morses wouldve seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. I think if Morses has made these more detailed checks it wouldve seen that Mr N did have a number of other home credit loans that he would need to 
repay at the same time as the Morses loan. 
Its clear that Mr N was having problems managing his money, particularly with this priority 
bills. And Morses seemed to have been aware of this. I dont see how taking more high cost 
credit would improve this situation over the longer term. And think its reasonable to say a 
proportionate check wouldve confirmed this. 
I think Morses wouldve seen that Mr N wouldnt have been able repay the loans in a 
sustainable way. So, I think that Morses shouldnt have given loans 2 and 3 to Mr N and I 
think hes lost out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint about loans 2 and 3.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr N from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr N may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr N loans 2 and 3.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr N towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr N 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr N originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr N the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ns credit file in 
relation to loans 2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Morses Club Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman