DRN-3403517
The complaint
Mr M complains that CB Payments Ltd trading as Coinbase blocked his account without any 
warning. He wants compensation for the costs he incurred in moving his Crypto currency 
and a reason for the block.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Coinbase which he opened on 10 February 2021.
Coinbase restricted Mr Ms account in order to carry out a review. Coinbase wrote to Mr M 
letting him know which services he had access to, and which had been blocked.
Mr M told us that he was unhappy with the block, so he withdrew his funds on 
21 February 2021 to another Coinbase account his wife opened. The balance on Mr Ms 
account was zero. The review was finished on 13 May 2021.
Mr M has told us that as a result of his withdrawing his funds he incurred losses of £7.70 for 
moving the Crypto and £64.58 because he had to transfer and dispose of the currency when 
the market wasnt as high.
Mr M complained to Coinbase- they said they were entitled to restrict his account for 
compliance and operational reasons. They also said section 8.4 of the User Agreement 
stated Coinbase wasnt liable for any potential trading losses.
Mr M complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
Coinbase were entitled to block the account without giving notice because of their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They had acted in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr M wanted to know what specific regulations allowed Coinbase to block his account.
Mr M was unhappy with our investigators view he said we should let him know the reason 
why Coinbase blocked the account. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and block
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Coinbase were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ms account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Coinbase were following an internal process which 
they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Coinbase was unfair. 
Reasons
Whilst Mr M may have expected to be given the reasons for the block on the account, 
Coinbase isnt required to give him a specific reason for restricting the account. So, I cant 
say Coinbase has done anything wrong by not giving Mr M this information  as much as 
hed like to know. 
I can see that Section 7 of the user Agreement that Mr M agreed to when he opened the 
Coinbase account in February 2021 allows Coinbase to restrict his use of the account and it 
is under no obligation to provide Mr M with the reasons.
Specific regulations
Mr M has said he would like to know which specific laws and regulations allowed Coinbase 
to block his account. Coinbase arent required to give Mr M any further reasons.
Moreover, Coinbases obligations are broad and varied, and it isnt the case that one 
regulation or law only applies to the circumstances of Mr M and this complaint. Mr M may 
wish to research firms obligations and responsibilities, and how they relate to his 
circumstances and the decision Coinbase has taken. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Coinbase have acted in accordance with whats required of them.
Losses
Mr M has asked that he is refunded for losses he incurred as a result of transferring and 
selling his Crypto at an unfavourable time due to the block. 
Coinbase were entitled to take the action they did in blocking Mr Ms account so I cant say 
they are responsible for the losses Mr M incurred. In addition, the losses incurred were the 
result of actions Mr M chose to take so I cant say that Coinbase should be held liable for the 
losses. In any case Section 8.4 of the user agreement provides that Coinbase wont be held 
liable for any trading losses. 
In summary I know that Mr M will be unhappy with my decision but I cant say that Coinbase 
acted unfairly when they blocked Mr Ms account and I dont think they are liable for Mr Ms 
losses for the reasons Ive stated above. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman