DRN-3781685
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to switch a personal pension plan (PPP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated 
collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr H is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC), but for ease of 
reading the decision Ill refer to all representations as being made by Mr H.
What happened
Mr H met with Portal in 2012. Portal carried out a review with Mr H. It noted he was 55 
years old, employed and was earning approximately £1,300 per month. He was single and 
owned his home valued at around £150,000 with an outstanding repayment mortgage of 
£75,000. It noted Mr H had debt of around £35,000, and no monthly disposable income. 
Mr H had another Group Pension Plan (GPP) from a former employer but didnt want to 
review this because of guarantees attached to it.
Portal noted Mr Hs PPP had a transfer value of £44,431 at the time of the advice. Portal 
stated Mr Hs objectives were to release tax free cash (TFC) immediately and keep the 
remaining fund to provide an income at a later date, to ensure the portfolio reflected Mr Hs 
attitude to risk (ATR) and to have a greater investment fund choice.
The risk assessment Portal carried out suggested he was a moderately cautious 
investor. Portal recommended that Mr H switch his PPP to a SIPP to meet his objectives. 
Portals suitability report noted that it would charge an initial advice fee of 5% and an 
ongoing management charge of 1%. The SIPP had an initial set up fee of 0.2% and an 
annual management charge (AMC) of 0.5% plus £80 per annum.
The SIPP was established in November 2012. Mr H took 25% of the fund value as TFC. The 
remaining balance was allocated as follows:
Cool Blue Samui £2,328
EOS Solar  £2,329
Hypa Raithwaite  £15,000
Venture Oil  £6,195
The remainder of the funds were allocated to cash funds.
In June 2020, with the assistance of a CMC, Mr H complained to Portal about the advice he 
received to switch his PPP to the SIPP. He said the advice was negligent and unsuitable for 
someone with no investment experience and a cautious ATR. 
Portal rejected his complaint, saying it had been referred too late. Unhappy with Portals 
response, Mr H referred the matter to our service.
An Investigator considered the matter. They first explained that they thought the complaint 
had been referred in time under our rules. Portal didnt respond so our Investigator 
proceeded to consider the merits of the complaint.  She concluded that Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld. The Investigator didnt think the advice to switch Mr Hs PPP to the SIPP 
was suitable; this was because Mr H's existing arrangements could potentially have been 
met by remaining in his existing PPP. She noted the cost of the advice and the SIPP were 
likely to be more expensive. And she thought the SIPP and the underlying funds were higher 
risk than someone with Mr Hs experience and ATR shouldve been advised to invest in.  
Our Investigator thought Portal should compensate Mr H for his loss.
Portal didnt provide any comments in response to our Investigators opinions, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr Hs complaint has been referred to us in time, and should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
Has the complaint been referred to us in time?
Portal didnt respond to our Investigators opinion that the complaint had been referred to us 
in time. But for completeness, Ive thought about this, and I agree with our Investigator that 
the complaint was referred to us in time.
The rules under which we operate are known as the DISP rules and can be found within the 
FCA handbook. 
The relevant rule here is DISP 2.8.2 which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
DISP 2.8.2 goes on to state a number of exceptions to the above rule, including cases in 
which the Ombudsman agrees that the failure to meet the deadline was a result of 
exceptional circumstances.
The advice to switch his pension  that Mr H is complaining about happened in March 2012. 
Mr H first contacted us in September 2020. This is clearly more than six years after the event 
being complained about. So, its been referred to us too late under the first part of this rule. 
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Mr H referred the complaint to us within three years of the date he became aware, or ought to have reasonably become aware, that he had 
cause for complaint.
Portal, in its final response to Mr H, pointed to a letter dated September 2015 which 
explained that one of the funds hed invested in was not performing as expected. 
Ive considered the review letters Portal has referred to. And I think the overriding tone of this 
letter was one of reassurance. 
It starts by setting out that the schemes are making strenuous efforts to return your capital 
together with the growth you are entitled to, sooner than they originally indicated.
With regards to the Raithwaite Investment, it says it is our view that the security measures 
put in place with Skelwith Ltd will generate enough money to pay all the outstanding interest 
and to return investors capital.
The update on EOS Solar says EOS Solar tells investors to expect a return in January 2016 
based on the rental income received in 2015. It also tells us to expect periodic redemptions 
(ie our money back in instalments) as the properties are sold on to other owners.
The updates on the other investments are similarly reassuring. The letters certainly didnt 
expressly tell Mr H he should have cause for alarm or concern. Furthermore, Mr H was a lay 
person who had relied on Portal as his professional advisors when it provided advice in 
2012. And I dont think anything within these letters wouldve made him question this initial 
advice.
Mr H raised his complaint in 2020 when contacted by the CMC. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest anything prior to this shouldve alerted him to the fact that the investments he had 
been advised to take were unsuitable. Based on this, Im satisfied the complaint has been 
raised in time.
The advice to switch
What I need to decide is whether the advice to transfer Mr Hs pension into a SIPP, draw the 
maximum TFC, and invest into the underlying investments, were suitable recommendations. 
At the time of Portals advice Mr H was 55 years old, employed and in good health. He was a 
standard retail investor and he didnt intend to retire until age 65. According to the 
information gathered by Portal, the PPP being switched contained the majority of his 
retirement provisions. He had another, much smaller pension fund from a previous 
employer. Other than his pension there was no record of Mr H having any investments or 
savings. Although he was a homeowner, he had an outstanding amount of £75,000 on his 
mortgage and he also had other debt of £35,000.
The suitability report noted that one of Mr Hs objectives was to access tax free cash to 
refurnish his house. However, Mr H has told us he had no pressing need for TFC and hadnt 
been thinking about taking this until Portal suggested it. Mr H received just over £11,000 
TFC. Whilst Ive no doubt this wouldve been enough to be able to cosmetically update his 
house, it doesnt seem like this was going to be enough substantially alter or improve the 
house overall. And Portal didnt record any details of any major works or improvements that 
were either required or Mr H intended to carry out. Although Mr H has told us he did use the 
money for home improvements, Im not persuaded that this was a priority for Mr H at the 
time. There was no evidence of Mr Hs existing pension provider being contacted to see if there 
was a way he could be permitted to take TFC without transferring to the SIPP. Mr H didnt 
want to take an immediate income, and this would tend to suggest that he wasnt in any 
financial difficulty. Although he had some debt, and no disposable income, there was nothing 
to suggest the situation was worsening. Its possible Mr H couldve used the TFC to reduce 
his debt, but its clear that wasnt noted to be his objective and it is evident Mr H didnt use 
the funds for that reason. So, overall, I cant see that Mr H had any obvious or compelling 
need to take TFC  given his financial circumstances. 
Furthermore, I cant see that Portal investigated or explained to Mr H the impact that taking 
TFC cash would have in his retirement overall. By taking the TFC, Mr H was instantly 
reducing the funds available to him in retirement. And I cant see that Portal made him aware 
of the impact of this on his future pension income.
So, while I think the TFC was appealing to Mr H, he had no pressing need for it and had he 
been correctly advised, he wouldnt have transferred his pension to access the TFC. 
Considering all of this, I dont think the advice to switch in order to access TFC was suitable 
for Mr H.
Attitude to risk 
Mr Hs ATR was established as moderately cautious. Mr H wasnt an experienced investor, 
having considered his overall circumstances I think this was reasonable.
However, around 85% of Mr Hs investments were placed into Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes (UCIS) and unregulated investments.  Given the risks involved, these 
types of investments cant fairly be described as stable funds. Unregulated investments can 
be prone to lack of regulation, longevity risks, potential insolvency, liquidity issues and other 
factors which can prevent investors from accessing their funds. 
What was recommended didnt appear to match with Mr Hs ATR. And Mr H did not have 
any savings or investments to fall back on. He had just the one other small pension and his 
state pension. His capacity for loss, was in my view, minimal and therefore inconsistent with 
the investment recommendations made, which were high risk. 
SIPPs provide a wider range of investment options and added flexibility and choice. I cant 
see that Mr H had any obvious need for the flexibility offered by the SIPP. Ive explained 
above why transferring to access the TFC alone wasnt suitable for Mr H.  Whilst one of Mr 
Hs objectives was recorded as ensuring his pension matched his ATR and that he had a 
good awareness of investment opportunities, I see no reason why this couldnt have been 
completed by staying with his existing PPP. I havent been provided with anything by Portal 
that shows it ever looked into how his existing pension was invested. Nor that it explored 
whether there were suitable funds that he couldve switched to by remaining in the PPP.
Mr Hs PPP was with a large provider, and I think its likely he wouldve had the choice of a 
number of different funds within this arrangement. But I dont think Portal explored this option 
at all. The SIPP had an AMC of 0.5%. Theres no record of the cost of the PPP. But there 
was a clear cost to switching his existing pension into a SIPP. Portal charged him an 5% 
initial fee and there would also be charges associated with its ongoing investment advice, 
plus other fund charges depending on the investments selected. I dont think Portal was able 
to justify this, particularly in view of the fact that they didnt explore the cost of remaining 
within the PPP.
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr H was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition or why he wanted access to a wide range of investments. I think that greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit when Mr H had little experience of investing in 
stocks and shares. There wasnt any explanation as to why he wanted a greater fund choice, 
or what investments he wanted to make that were not available with his existing providers. 
And I dont think the adviser could reasonably conclude that Mr H wanted or needed access 
to non-standard or unregulated investments, which the SIPP would provide.
Portal recommended an investment strategy which, given that Mr H was neither an 
experienced nor a sophisticated investor, likely meant a higher need for ongoing advice and 
monitoring of the investments, which came at a cost. Portal recommended that Mr H invest 
around 85% of his modest pension fund into UCIS and unregulated funds. As Ive said Mr H 
appeared not to be a sophisticated nor an experienced investor. Given the size of his fund 
and his other assets he clearly wasnt a high net worth investor with an obvious capacity to 
take on greater risk.  
Overall, investing Mr Hs SIPP into high risk, unregulated investments was inconsistent with 
Mr Hs ATR to risk and capacity for loss. I dont therefore consider Portals investment advice 
was suitable, in Mr Hs individual circumstances. And given the issues with the investments 
over the years, Mr H has clearly lost out financially as a result of accepting Portals advice.
Summary
For the reasons set out above, I think the advice to switch the PPP to the SIPP was 
unsuitable because Mr H didnt have a genuine requirement for the TFC he ended up taking. 
Additionally, Mr H was not an experienced investor and so did not need the wider investment 
choice the SIPP would provide. It would also potentially be a more costly arrangement, once 
the SIPP provider, fund and adviser charges were taken into account. 
Overall, I think Mr H shouldve been advised to retain his PPP and review the underlying 
investments of that instead to ensure they were invested in line with his ATR. If necessary, 
Mr H couldve switched funds within that arrangement. I dont think Mr H had a genuine need 
to take TFC, so I dont think he needed to switch to a SIPP for this reason.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portal not to switch, Mr H would 
have gone ahead with it anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances in this 
case, I dont believe he would have. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr H was seriously 
considering moving his existing plan prior to being approached by Portal for a pension 
review. I think that the options of taking TFC was appealing once suggested by Portal, but I 
dont think this was something Mr H was looking at until it was presented to him as an 
option.
Overall, I dont think portal gave Mr H suitable advice. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?To compensate Mr H fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay £400 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the impact its 
unsuitable advice has had on his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr H provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr H's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr H can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr H an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
H would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman