DRN-2060298
The complaint
Mr R complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) avoided his car insurance policy and 
refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr R took out a car insurance policy with Covea through a price comparison website. In 
August 2018, his property was broken into and the thieves stole the keys to the car, which 
was parked on the road. Mr R reported the incident to the police, but the car was never 
recovered. Mr R contacted Covea to make a claim.
Covea spoke to Mr R about the claim and carried out some investigations. Later, it contacted 
Mr R and said hed answered the questions it asked about who owned the vehicle 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because of this and keep the premium hed 
already paid.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was reckless and that 
Covea were entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy and retain the premium hed paid.
 
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
acknowledges that there may have been a mistake in the insurance quote he obtained but 
doesnt think this means Covea should be allowed to decline the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose that the vehicle, he was insuring was owned by a leasing company and in 
failing to disclose that the registered keeper of the vehicle was his brother. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr R was asked on the third-party website as part of the 
application. The evidence Ive seen shows he was asked Are you (or will you be) the 
registered keeper and legal owner?. This was followed by a yes and no tick box. And I think 
this was a clear question asked through the comparison site Mr R used.
Mr Rs broker has confirmed that he answered yes for this application and if he had 
answered no, further questions would have been asked about who the registered keeper 
and legal owner was. Mr Rs broker has also confirmed that Mr R completed a separate 
application where he ticked the yes box and received a quote, but that quote wasnt taken 
further. I appreciate that Mr R states that if the yes box was ticked then this was an error, but 
theres no dispute that the vehicle belongs to a leasing company and that the leaseholder 
and registered keeper was Mr Rs brother  and not himself. So I think this means Mr R 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said he was the 
registered keeper and legal owner of the vehicle he was insuring.
Covea has provided the wording of its underwriting criteria which shows that it wouldnt have 
offered a policy if it had known the registered keeper of the vehicle was Mr Rs brother. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. So Ive then gone on to 
consider whether Mrs Rs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea has said Mr Rs misrepresentation was reckless because it highlighted to Mr R on 
several occasions the importance of providing correct information and he failed to do so. It 
has also highlighted that Mr R worked in the leasing industry so would have understood the 
importance of disclosing the correct information when entering into a contract of insurance. It 
has also mentioned that Mr R took out the lease in his brothers name as when they were 
obtaining quotes, it was cheaper to lease the vehicle to his brother.
Having considered this, I agree that Mr Rs misrepresentation was reckless. I say this 
because Mr R was aware that the information he was providing when he confirmed he was 
the owner and registered keeper of the vehicle was incorrect and, given that he worked in 
the industry I think he would have been aware that this information was relevant to the 
insurer in deciding whether to provide a quote. In addition to this, it seems clear that Mr R 
put a previous quote through with the correct information which is likely to have produced a 
different premium, so I think it ought to have been clear to Mr R that he had had changed 
some of the information hed inputted into the comparison website.
As Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA. In this case, Covea has avoided the 
policy, kept the premium and has refused to pay the claim as effectively the policy never 
existed, which CIDRA outlines that it can do in these circumstances. As CIDRA reflects our 
long-established approach to these types of cases, it follows that I dont think Covea has 
made a mistake in its decision in this case. And I wont be asking it to do anything differently.
Mr R has also said that he called his broker to confirm the vehicle was owned by a vehicle 
leasing company, however I havent seen any evidence of that call or the information being 
passed to Covea so its something Mr R would need to take up with his broker directly. But 
as the evidence Ive seen reflects that Mr R has misrepresented his situation to Covea and 
that it doesnt appear to have received any information about Mr R having made a mistake in 
his application, his comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman