DRN-3605135
The complaint
Mrs H complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat her fairly when she was in financial 
difficulties.
Im aware our investigator told both parties they had until 3 August 2022 to make further 
submissions. But as both parties have already made their positions clear and Im satisfied I 
have enough information to reach a fair outcome, I have decided not to delay matters. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H had a credit card account with HSBC. In 2020 she was unable to make her 
contractual repayments after losing her job. In October 2020 HSBC took details of Mrs Hs 
financial situation and determined she was unable to afford to make any repayments, so it 
suspended interest and charges for the following three months. A further review was 
undertaken in January 2021. Mrs Hs circumstances hadnt changed so HSBC agreed to 
suspend interest and charges for a further six months and review things again in July 2021. I 
find HSBC treated Mrs H fairly on both occasions as it took action to ensure her debt 
wouldnt increase, didnt pressure her to make repayments and gave her time to see if her 
circumstances would improve.
In July 2021 HSBC reviewed matters again and determined Mrs Hs circumstances 
remained unchanged. Its at this point HSBC ought reasonably to have considered the 
account in default. I say this because by July 2021 Mrs H was more than six months in 
arrears and there was nothing compelling to suggest she would be able to return to her 
contractual repayments any time soon. In the event, HSBC didnt default the account until 
October 2021. It has, however, offered to backdate the default to May 2021. I consider this 
fair as it puts Mrs H in a slightly better position than she should be in, given I consider a 
default should have been applied in or around July 2021.
In January 2022 Mrs H wrote to HSBC to say the debt was impacting her mental health and 
she had no disposable income to pay her creditors. She asked HSBC to write off the debt  
about £2,700. HSBC declined her request; Mrs H considers this unfair. Although I have a 
great deal of sympathy for Mrs H, I cant fairly require HSBC to write off the debt. I say this 
because it is a debt she owes, and Mrs Hs circumstances might change in a way which will 
allow her to repay it. Further, HSBC isnt adding interest or charges, so the amount owing 
wont increase, and HSBC is currently accepting no repayments. I find HSBC has treated 
Mrs H fairly.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc should backdate the default to May 2021, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman