DRN-3088503
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax treated him when he 
tried to open an account.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr F opened an account online with Halifax. Shortly after, Halifax told him it 
was closing the account. Halifax said it had previously told him in 2019 that it wouldnt offer 
him any banking services in the future.
Mr F complained to Halifax. He said hed called Halifax when he hadnt received his bank 
card and pin, and he was promised a call back which didnt happen. He said his autism 
means not receiving the call back left him anxious and he felt confined to his house. 
Halifax didnt agree it had done anything wrong. So Mr F brought the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator listened to the call between Mr F and Halifax, she didnt think it had 
promised a call back. And she didnt think Halifax had acted unreasonably by closing the 
account he opened in February 2021. 
Mr F said he didnt think Halifax had made adjustments for his autism, such as providing 
written communication in large font. Our investigator couldnt see that Halifax had made 
been made aware that this is what Mr F needed, so she said it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax 
to compensate Mr F.
Mr F didnt accept this, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was told in August 2019, in response to a complaint, that he would no longer be offered 
banking facilities. It told him any accounts he opened would be closed without notice. As part 
of this decision, Im not reviewing whether Halifax made a reasonable decision in August 
2019, as a complaint about this hasnt been brought within the relevant timescales followed 
by our service. 
However, Ive considered how Halifax treated Mr F when he did open the account in 
February 2021. Having done so, Im not going to ask it to do anything differently.
Mr F called Halifax on 19 February, as he hadnt received the card and PIN for the account 
hed opened online. He was told on that call that the card and PIN had been sent to the 
correct address, so it was likely still in the postal system. Halifax offered to refund the cost of 
his call and said the amount (around £3) would be paid into his account. 
Mr F was asked if he was happy to close the complaint at this stage, to which he replied 
yes. He did ask if the complaint could be reopened if he still hadnt received the card in the 
next few days, and he was told it could. But at no point was Mr F promised a call back. He 
was told hed get a letter in response to this complaint, and he could get in touch again if the 
card and PIN hadnt been received. So Im satisfied Halifax didnt make an error here. 
I understand that the closure of the account caused Mr F distress; hes explained how his 
autism exacerbated that. But I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably in doing so. It had 
made clear in 2019 it would close any further accounts without notice. When Halifax closed 
Mr Fs account, he was still able to withdraw the compensation from the account, which was 
the only money in it. So Im satisfied that Halifax closing the account without notice, as it had 
said it would, hasnt had a detrimental impact on Mr Fs finances.
Mr F has also said Halifaxs system should stop him from opening an account, and he 
should have been told on 19 February that an account couldnt be opened. Halifaxs letter of 
August 2019 says any further accounts opened will be closed without notice, it doesnt say 
Mr F wont be able to open one. When Mr F spoke to an adviser on 19 February, the adviser 
wasnt aware of the warning placed on his account, it only came to light later. I accept it 
would have been helpful for Halifax to tell Mr F on this call that his account couldnt be 
opened, but I cant see hes suffered any detriment as a result. So Im not going to ask 
Halifax to pay any compensation. 
Mr F has said Halifax should have communicated with him by email rather than letter, and 
with larger font. I havent seen anything which suggests he told Halifax about these 
adjustments. During the call on 19 February, the adviser explains Mr F will receive a follow 
up letter about his complaint. He didnt ask for any amendments to be made for this, or 
whether it could be provided by email. So as I dont think Halifax could have been 
reasonably aware of any required adjustments, I cant say its treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman