DRN-4292044
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with his 
request for money back. 
What happened
Mr G says he made a payment of around £135 using his Halifax debit card but at the same 
time his wife had made the same payment in cash. So he contacted Halifax who told him it 
would cancel the payment and return the funds within 24 hours. After not receiving the 
refund Mr G contacted Halifax and says it told him the agent had filled out the wrong form, 
so the money was released from his account. He says Halifax told him to call back in 15 
days to dispute the payment. He says he was told he wouldnt need any supporting 
documentation. 
After 15 days Mr G contacted Halifax and says he was told hed need receipts to show his 
wife had made payment. Mr G was unhappy with how Halifax handled things and 
complained. 
Halifax responded to say it was sorry it gave him false hope that hed be guaranteed a 
refund. It highlighted it had already paid Mr G £50 so that he wasnt left without any money. 
It said it was unable to raise a chargeback for Mr G with the relevant card scheme without 
sufficient evidence. It also gave Mr G a further £50 compensation. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said 
Halifax didnt act unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback because it didnt have enough 
evidence. She thought Halifaxs offer for the way it handled things was fair. So she made no 
further recommendations. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt taken into consideration the toll it took on 
his health and the debt he was in because of it. As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Gs 
request for getting his money back. Halifax says it was too late to stop the payment once 
Mr G had made it even though he contacted it straight away. In situations like this, Halifax 
can consider raising a chargeback. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a 
successful claim. 
There is a chargeback dispute condition for when a payment has been made by other 
means. But it looks like a cash receipt would have been required as part of the supporting 
documentation (amongst other things). So as Halifax didnt have this, I dont find it was 
wrong it didnt pursue the chargeback as there wouldnt have been a reasonable prospect of 
success. 
However, its not in dispute things could have gone better for Mr G. I dont know exactly how 
that made him feel. But hes said its taken a toll. I can imagine he was upset and 
disappointed at the loss of expectation. He thought things would be resolved straight away 
and they werent. And he thought things would be resolved a couple of weeks later, but they 
werent. So I find its fair Halifax has offered him compensation. In the round, I think £100 is 
broadly fair. Ive not seen the error caused a financial loss  Mr G explained the payment 
went to loans he had with another financial service provider. Im therefore not going to direct 
Halifax to pay more. 
One final thing I would say is that I appreciate Mr G says he tried to resolve things with the 
firm he paid but was unsuccessful. If hes raised a complaint, it might be something our 
service is able to consider. But, with regards to the complaint with Halifax, I think its done 
enough to put things right. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has paid Mr G £100 compensation. I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
So my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has done enough to put 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman