DRN-4104919
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that while Barclays Bank UK PLC approved her credit account application, 
they were only willing to provide her with a credit limit of £200.
What happened
Mrs L applied to Barclays for a credit account and asked to be granted a credit limit of over 
£14,000. Barclays approved Mrs Ls account application and opened a new credit account 
for her. But they were only initially willing to provide a credit limit to Mrs L of £200  although 
they invited Mrs L to provide evidence of her declared income and explained that if she did 
so they may be willing to raise her credit limit in line with what she was requesting.
Mrs L did then provide details of her income to Barclays. But after receiving this information 
from Mrs L, Barclays explained to her that they werent willing to increase her credit limit 
beyond £200 at this time. Mrs L wasnt happy about this and felt that Barclays were 
discriminating against her because of her age. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mrs L and confirmed they werent willing to offer her a credit limit 
beyond £200 at that time. Barclays also explained that they didnt feel that they were 
discriminating against Mrs L based on her age as she believed. Mrs L wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Barclays had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by not offering a credit limit greater than £200 to Mrs L, even following the 
receipt of the income verification documents provided by her. And our investigator also didnt 
feel that Barclays had discriminated against Mrs L based on her age. Mrs L remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mrs L may feel that her financial circumstances are such that Barclays 
should reasonably be willing to provide her with a credit limit to the level that shes seeking. 
However, it must be understood that a credit limit isnt a right that a consumer has. Rather, 
credit is provided to an applicant entirely at the discretion of the credit provider.
In this instance, after receiving Mrs Ls application, Barclays were initially only willing to 
provide a credit limit of £200 to her, although they did invite Mrs L to verify her claimed 
income with them. This led to Mrs L providing documents to Barclays which she felt did 
verify her income. But upon receipt of those documents from Mrs L, Barclays werent willing 
to increase the level of credit they would provide to Mrs L beyond £200.
Barclays arent obliged to explain exactly why theyre not willing to provide a certain level of 
credit to any individual. However, as alluded to by our investigator in their view of this 
complaint, it may have been the case that the documents Mrs L provided to Barclays to 
verify the income shed declared on her application didnt evidence her previously stated 
income to Barclays satisfaction. And this discrepancy between the income Mrs L claimed to 
receive and the income that could be evidenced from the documents she provided may have 
been a factor in Barclays decision to only offer a credit limit of 200 to her.
This isnt to say that Mrs L doesnt receive the income she declared to Barclays in her 
application. And it may be the case that Mrs L could have provided other documents, such 
as statements to other accounts into which she received income, which might have been 
more satisfactory to Barclays. But that opportunity for Mrs L to verify her income has now 
passed. And Barclays have confirmed that when a decision is made regarding a requested 
credit limit increase, that decision is binding for six months. Notably, given that six months 
has passed since Barclays made their decision, Mrs L may now be able to apply to Barclays 
again for an increase to her credit limit. 
However, it must be reiterated that there is no guarantee that any application Mrs L may 
make to Barclays in this regard will be successful. This is because, as explained, credit is 
provided by Barclays entirely at the discretion of the Barclays. And there are many factors 
besides verified income which can influence a banks decision to provide further credit or not 
to an applicant, and which may also have been a factor in Barclays original decision here.
Mrs L has also explained that she feels Barclays have discriminated against her because of 
her age. Having looked at all the evidence here I dont feel that Barclays have done so. Nor 
do I think that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably. Instead, I think that Barclays 
have followed the same decision-making process that they apply to all credit applicants, 
regardless of age. I hope that it helps Mrs L to know that someone impartial and 
independent has investigated this aspect of her concerns.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs L was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action here. This is because I dont 
feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably by following the process or by making 
the decisions that they have. I hope that Mrs L will understand, given what Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman