DRN-2631595
The complaint
Mr O complains that Gefion Insurance A/S mishandled a claim on his motor home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr O had a motor home that was about twenty years old. For the year from November 2018, 
he insured it on a policy under which Gefion was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I 
refer to Gefion, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Gefion responsible for 
their actions.
In July 2019, Mr Os motor home sustained broken windows. He contacted Gefion, and its 
approved repairer did an estimate for repairs as follows:
Labour: £1,522.50
Parts:   £1,860.41
Subtotal: £3,382.91 
VAT:    £676.58
Total £4,059.49
Mr O asked about his options. Gefion offered a cash settlement of £3,382.91 in lieu of 
repairs. That was subject to deduction of a £300.00 policy excess, so the balance was 
£3,082.91. 
Mr O agreed the deduction of the policy excess. In January 2020 he complained to Gefion 
that it shouldnt deduct VAT. 
By a final response dated 31 January 2020, Gefion declined to pay the VAT amount until 
completion of the repairs and the provision of the final invoice. Mr O brought his complaint to 
us in February 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that  as Mr O wasnt paying VAT to anyone - it would be unfair to ask Gefion to add 
the VAT to the settlement amount.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Most insurers paying out a settlement of cash in lieu, deduct the VAT element and 
hold it back in the unlikely event you actually get your vehicle repaired in a garage 
and send them the invoice to claim it back from them.
The truth of the matter is 9/10 people who get an insurance cash in lieu settlement do 
not use the money to carry out repairs to their vehicle. So in reality the majority of 
insurers will end up profiting from this VAT deducted money. Money which they 
should not be holding back or keeping.
The problem is no body is usually bothered to raise this with them. The ones who do 
usually win.
He refers to a county court judgment in March 2020.
He refers to section 5.5 - Financial Indemnification  from the HMRC.gov. website.
Gefion used the word deduction in the following paragraph:
"  settle your vehicle damage claim on a cash-in-lieu basis with the total 
amount being £3082.91 which already includes a deduction of your excess 
£300.00 and the VAT element £676.58".
A supervisor at HMRC VAT helpline said an insurer cannot deduct VAT from a cash 
in lieu settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to take into account the law, regulation and good practice. But overall I have to decide 
what is fair and reasonable.
When an insurer settles a claim by cash, its up to the consumer what they do with that 
money. Sometimes consumers get the work done for a lower cost than the cash settlement 
figure. That means the VAT amount  if their contractor is VAT registered  is less too. Often 
at the time the claim is being settled, its not known what the consumer intends to do with the 
money  or how much VAT that might generate.
Because of that we generally think its fair for the insurer not to include VAT in the 
settlement. But wed expect the insurer to pay the VAT added on to any insured work once 
the consumer has shown theyve paid it.
If the consumer complains that they are unable to get their vehicle repaired because they 
cant afford to pay the VAT we would expect the insurer to step in and help. This may include 
liaising with the garage that is doing the repairs and paying the VAT to them directly.
Mr O has sent us a copy of a decision by one of my colleagues. I dont consider that it is on 
the same facts as Mr Os complaint. 
Mr O has sent us a copy of a deputy District Judges judgment in a county court case. I dont 
consider that it is on the same facts as Mr Os complaint. 
Mr O has quoted HMRC as follows:
"5.5 Financial indemnification
If an insurer settles an insurance claim by paying money by way of financial 
indemnification to the insured party, no supply has taken place for the purposes of 
VAT. The money paid by the insurer in settlement of the claim is therefore outside 
the scope of VAT."
I consider that this means that the insurer doesnt have to charge VAT on settlements. It 
doesnt mean that the insurer has to pay Mr O VAT.From what he says, Mr O bought some replacement windows and a friend helped him fit 
them. Later Mr O told us he wanted to sell the vehicle. 
Theres no evidence  such as a VAT receipt - that he paid VAT.
I dont accept that  by deducting the £676.58 from what it offered him - Gefion charged VAT 
to Mr O. I dont accept that Gefion unfairly kept or profited from that money. 
I dont find that Gefion has treated Mr O unfairly and I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Gefion to pay him anything further in respect of VAT.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Gefion Insurance A/S to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman