DRN-3236968
The complaint
Mr B says it was unfair that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) is able to significantly 
change its charging structure without notice and without his consent.  
What happened
Mr B complained to NBS about the change in its pricing structure and the charges that have 
debited his account. NBS says the change in pricing ensured it was compliant with FCA 
regulations which came into force in April 2020 and that Mr B was notified of the change. Mr 
B was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and reached the conclusion NBS hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr B is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts NBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. Just like it is up 
to Mr B to decide whether to accept what NBS is offering or to take his business elsewhere. 
And providing NBS notified Mr B of the change in its pricing structure in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get involved with. And from what I 
can see NBS wrote to its customers in August 2021 notifying them of the changes in the 
pricing structure and that Mr B was aware of this because prior to this he had raised a 
complaint with NBS about the upcoming changes to its overdraft charging structure in 2019. 
That said, while Im not looking at NBSs various charging structures or processes per se, it 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NBS didnt treat Mr B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NBS did treat Mr B unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that NBS 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
Mr B may argue his regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Bs 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and Mr B was able 
to bring the overdraft down and at times into credit before once again going on to use his 
overdraft to make debit card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Mr B wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in 
these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted NBS to any potential financial 
difficulty. And the amount being credited to Mr Bs account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of his seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NBS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Bs account was being used. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially as hes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman