DRN-3796686
The complaint
Mr T has complained that when he registered for online banking with Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) in January 2020, the statements issued for his credit card account 
were switched to being paperless without his consent.
Mr T says that he relied on receiving his credit card statements to know when and how much 
he had to pay. As no statement was received in the post, Mr T says this led to him failing to 
repay his credit card balance on time in January 2022 - which led to him incurring a late 
payment charge. I understand Mr T raised his complaint with Nationwide and as it was still 
looking into the matter, he chose not to make the next minimum payment on the credit card 
when it was due  resulting in him incurring another late payment charge.
Mr T says that Nationwide is at fault because it opted him in to receive paperless 
statements without his consent. Mr T says that the late payments have been recorded on his 
credit file, which is now impacting his ability to obtain credit and to remortgage.
I understand Mr T was also unhappy that a direct debit (to repay the credit card) had been 
cancelled and hes also unhappy with how Nationwide handled his complaint.
What happened
Nationwide considered Mr Ts complaint and said that Mr T had chosen to receive paperless 
statements when he set up his online banking, so Nationwide said it couldnt see that it had 
made any error. Nationwide said that an email was sent to Mr T to say when his credit card 
statements were available to see online. Nationwide also said that the direct debit had been 
cancelled by his current account provider in July 2018, so said hell need to direct any 
concerns he has about that to his bank.
Although Nationwide didnt think it had acted incorrectly, it did agree to refund one of the late 
payment charges. Nationwide also paid Mr T £50 as an apology for any distress or 
inconvenience caused to Mr T when he had to go through security again after his call was 
transferred to another employee.
Unhappy with this, Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An adjudicator assessed the 
complaint and he didnt think that Nationwide had done anything wrong to cause Mr T to 
miss the repayment due on his credit card. And he thought that £50 was reasonable 
compensation for Mr T having to go through security questions again.
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I appreciate that the late payments 
being recorded on Mr Ts credit file is having an impact on Mr Ts ability to obtain credit. I 
also understand why Mr T is anxious about having late payment markers appear on his 
credit file when his mortgage deal is due to expire. 
However, I can only instruct Nationwide to put matters right  for example, by removing the 
late payment markers from his credit file  if I think it has done something wrong or has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T. And where matters are in dispute and evidence 
is missing, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think most likely happened, based on 
everything that is available. 
Nationwide says that the online banking registration process at the time required Mr T to 
actively chose to switch on paperless statements. In other words, Nationwide says that Mr T 
would not have been defaulted to receive paperless statements when he registered for 
online banking.
Unfortunately, Nationwide is unable to provide screenshots of exactly what Mr T wouldve 
seen when registering for online banking in January 2020. But I have seen screen shots of 
the current online banking registration service, and there is no requirement to opt (in or out) 
for paperless statements. Nor is there any indication from an archived version of 
Nationwides website in 2020, that someone registering for online banking would be 
defaulted to receive paperless statements. 
So based on everything I have been provided with, Ive not seen enough to be able to say 
that its likely that paperless statements were switched on for Mr T without his consent. I also 
think this is likely to be the case, as I note that Mr T conceded to Nationwide that he may 
well have switched paperless statements on accidentally. And given that Mr T missed the 
credit card repayment around two years after his credit card account was switched to 
paperless statements, I cant rule out the possibility that Mr T did select it, but had then 
forgotten hed done so. So overall I think that it is more likely than not that Mr T chose to 
receive paperless statements when he registered for online banking.
Furthermore, I note that Nationwide emailed Mr T when his credit card statements were 
available. So whilst he may not have received the statements in the post as he was 
expecting, he was still notified that the credit card statement was ready to be viewed online. 
Therefore, I think Nationwide took reasonable steps to notify Mr T that the credit card 
statement was ready to view  and therefore that a payment would be due on the account.
In terms of the second missed payment, I note that Mr T was aware that the credit card 
repayment was due. And its the case that the minimum repayment on his credit card was 
required by the due date, regardless of the status of his complaint. Unfortunately, Mr T 
chose to not make the payment until Nationwide resolved his complaint about him missing 
the previous months credit card payment. Of course, it was up to Mr T to decide whether he 
wanted to not make the minimum repayment on his credit card when it was due. But equally, 
I cant reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for the consequences of his decision. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to say that Nationwide should remove the late payment 
markers from his credit file.
In terms of the direct debit that had previously been set up to repay his credit card, 
Nationwide says that it was cancelled by his current account provider in July 2019. So again, 
I cant hold Nationwide responsible for the actions of a third party. If Mr T feels that an error 
was made regarding the cancellation of his direct debit, he will need to raise his concerns 
with his current account provider. 
Finally, Mr T says he is unhappy with how Nationwide dealt with his complaint. I note that Mr 
T took umbrage with the adjudicator saying that the offer of £50 was generous. Mr T says 
that Nationwides failure to respond to his complaint in a timely fashion and its breach of the 
consumer credit act has impacted his credit score, which in turn affects his ability to obtain 
loans and remortgage. However, I would like to point out that as I think that the late payment 
markers were correctly applied by Nationwide, that means that I dont think it is reasonable for Nationwide to compensate Mr T for the distress he is experiencing from the 
consequences of the late payment information on his credit file.
As such, the payment of £50 was specifically to reflect how the call was handled. It was not 
awarded for Mr T not making the minimum repayment on his credit card or the impact the 
late payment marker appearing on his credit file has had. And in the circumstances, I think 
that £50 is a reasonable award for the distress and inconvenience he experienced in the 
phone call.
So in summary, whilst I can see that Mr T feels very strongly about this matter, ultimately, I 
think it likely that he chose to receive paperless statements when he registered for online 
banking and therefore Im unable to hold Nationwide responsible for Mr T not paying the 
minimum repayment amount on his credit card when it was due. And although Mr T was 
expecting to receive his credit card statements by post, Nationwide did email him to say that 
his credit card statement was ready and could be viewed online. So, Im unable to say that 
Nationwide has acted incorrectly or unfairly in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. I therefore dont think that 
Nationwide Building Society needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman