DRN-3450019
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the time taken by P1 Investment Management Limited to 
transfer his ISA. 
What happened
On 2 October 2019 Mr D requested a transfer of his stocks and shares ISA from P1 to 
another provider which Ill call B. Mr D made this request because his employer required the 
ISA to be held by a preferred supplier. The transfer took much longer than expected  it took 
until June 2020 to transfer most of the funds. The outstanding fund was suspended by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) so couldnt be moved. 
A complaint was also logged against the new provider, as it wasnt clear who was at fault. 
This decision though focuses on the actions of P1. P1 didnt issue Mr D with a final response 
letter. Our investigator identified some delays by PI and recommended it pay him £150 in 
compensation and refund charges (if any were made) from 1 January 2020. P1 didnt agree. 
It said that the delay was caused by the receiving scheme not being prepared to accept 
suspended assets. It said that there was confusion and mixed messages from B, which it felt 
was demonstrated by the email correspondence.
As no agreement was reached, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there was a delay in transferring Mr Ps ISA, the issue was 
identifying which party was responsible for the delay. I wholly accept that neither P1 or B can 
be held responsible for the delays caused by the suspended fund. 
Nevertheless I agree with the finding made by our investigator that there are identifiable 
delays that were caused by P1. There were issues with getting the correct address to send 
the form to, it took 69 days for P1 to accept the transfer, and P1 only chased the transfer 
once in a two-month window. In these circumstances I find that there was an opportunity to 
reduce the delay. And Im satisfied that the delay would have caused worry and 
inconvenience to Mr D, who was completing the transfer due to a requirement by his 
employer and was unable to manage his investment during this time.
P1 havent sent any details regarding charges, but Im satisfied that the transfer could have 
been completed sooner and that it wouldnt be fair to levy charges for the period when the 
completion was delayed to the suspension of a fund. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for P1 to refund any charges relating to this ISA made after 1 January 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require P1 Investment Management Limited to:
Pay Mr D £150 in compensation
Refund any charges it levied in respect of this ISA after 1 January 2020 until 
completion of the transfer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman