DRN-2260241
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2004.
I sent Mrs C and AXA a provisional decision on 16 September 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, 
so that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs C clear information about the policys main exclusions at the 
point of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs C, since she had a number of pre-
existing medical conditions which wouldnt have been covered.
While I take AXAs point that these conditions could be managed, they were chronic, long-
term conditions which needed substantial ongoing treatment and monitoring, and which 
occasionally caused Mrs C to need time off work.
Further, while Mrs C was broadly managing her conditions well at the point of sale, they 
could regardless have developed very serious complications. And she had not only one pre-
existing condition, but four. So it seems likely that these wouldve been the conditions that 
Mrs C was most concerned about at the time, and they wouldve seemed the most likely 
ones to cause her to claim. But this policy excluded claims for anything that resulted from 
any of her multiple pre-existing conditions  which wouldve cast quite a large net of things 
she couldnt claim for in this case. So Mrs C couldnt have claimed on the PPI for everything 
she might have reasonably expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs C wouldve bought the policy if shed been given clear enough information 
about its exclusions. So I think Mrs C has most likely lost out because of the flaws in this 
sale.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 October 2020. But neither AXA nor Mrs C sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I think the policy was most likely 
mis-sold.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint, and direct AXA France IARD to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman