DRN-4055492
The complaint
A limited company, that I will call K, has complained that H.W. Wood Limited mis-sold it a 
business insurance policy. K says it was sold a different policy when it renewed on 1 March 
2020 and if H.W. Wood had provided better advice, it would have had cover for
losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms J1 and Ms J2, directors of K, have brought the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
K operates as a gym and had business insurance that ran from 1 March 2019 to 28 February
2020. H.W. Wood approached K in early 2020 and offered to arrange its insurance for the
following year. K took out a policy through H.W. Wood starting 1 March 2020. Shortly
afterwards, K made a claim under the new policy for business interruption losses arising
from the Covid-19 pandemic but the insurer said the claim was not covered.
K says the previous policy it had would have covered the claim and so H.W. Wood mis-sold
the policy, as it had asked for like-for-like cover and H.W. Wood did not provide the cover
requested.
H.W. Wood said that while the previous policy provided cover for infectious diseases, it didnt
think it would have covered the claim. However, it did accept it had not provided a policy that
was exactly like-for-like. H.W. Wood says some aspects of cover under the new policy were
enhanced but the business interruption cover sum insured was previously higher. It arranged
for the sum insured to be amended retrospectively.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint should be upheld,
as he thought the policy had been mis-sold and if K had known there was not similar disease
cover, it is likely it would have renewed with its previous insurer. The Investigator therefore
recommended that H.W. Wood have the claim assessed, in accordance with the terms of the
previous policy and add interest to any amount to be paid.
H.W. Wood didnt accept the Investigators assessment. H.W. Wood made a number of
points in response to the Investigator. I considered everything it said but have
summarised the main points below:
K did not mention wanting or requiring Covid-19 cover and says it only saw the
renewal invitation from the previous insurer in September 2022 and there is no
mention of Covid-19 cover in any of that documentation.
Covid-19 wasnt mentioned to it by K, so it cannot be criticised for not providing a
policy that would cover it; and if K had discussed Covid-19 cover with the previous
insurer it would emphasise that unfairness to H.W. Wood given K did not ask it to
provide such cover.
If the previous policy would cover the claim, this would only be by complete chance.
The previous insurer had declined claims and it was only after the Supreme Court
judgment that it was deemed to cover claims.
It did not state it would provide K a like-for-like policy  it didnt see the details of the
previous policy, only a policy schedule for 2018-2019 - so could not have done so.
The circumstances concerning Covid-19 were unknown at the time its policy was
arranged. It is unfair to decide this case with the benefit of hindsight and not the
circumstances at the time.
K has provided a copy of an email sent internally between staff of K, which says
they should probably check for cover for Covid-19 but this was never communicated
to it before taking out the policy and has not been raised during the initial complaint.
K asked it to provide a quote for cover on 26 February 2020. It responded
immediately asking for a copy of the renewal invitation from Ks previous insurer
(which it never received) and spoke to K on 28 February 2020 to arrange cover.
Within 40 minutes of that call, it had provided K two options for cover. Ks cover was
to expire the next day and it considers the timeframe and urgency with which it had to
work to arrange this cover should be taken into consideration. The fact cover was
only requested at the end of the last working day before the policy expired
emphasises the unfairness of the complaint against it.
It thinks the offer of renewal from the previous insurer was possibly rescinded or
was no longer available, otherwise K would not have been seeking to arrange cover
at the last minute. It has no reason to believe K would not have taken out the policy
with it, even if it had been explained there was no cover for Covid-19 under this
policy. If it had not taken the policy, K would have been uninsured and would have
had to close until insurance was arranged.
If it has to meet the value of the claim it reserves the right to adjust that claim,
taking account of Government loans etc.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on the matter earlier this month and have copied part of that decision 
below: 
H.W. Wood sold the policy to K and set it up. However, it isnt the insurer/underwriter 
of the cover. I cant therefore look at the handling of the claim itself. Those selling 
insurance have a responsibility to provide clear and fair information about the cover 
provided, so that customers can make an informed decision about whether or not to 
buy it.
If the seller is also recommending the policy, they also have to take steps to try and 
ensure it is suitable, as far as possible, for the customer having considered their 
demands and needs.
Was it an advised sale?
H.W. Wood has said this was a non-advised sale. I do not agree and I will explain 
why.
H.W. Wood approached K and offered to provide a quote for its business insurance. 
Its email to K said: We have negotiated a bespoke insurance offering for the entire 
 group with preferential premium rates and expanded cover.
H.W. Wood also wrote to K on 21 February 2020 stating:
In order to give you certainty the [policy]  negotiated on your behalf will maintain 
your current limits and excess levels along with increasing cover in certain areas. 
Stating it had negotiated bespoke coverage for K suggests that H.W. Wood has 
tailored the coverage to meet the specific demands and needs of K; and that K could rely on the policy being suitable for its needs. And nothing in the quotation and 
summary documentation I have seen sets out that it was on an information
basis only. Instead the written quotation sent on 28 February 2020 says: 
We have assessed your demands and needs to obtain a policy that provides 
material damage insurance for your property as described to insurers plus loss of 
income following insured damage.
I have not seen any specific terms of engagement between K and H.W. Woods but 
even if this states it is offering an information only sale, having considered the 
information provided to K at the time, it is my opinion this was in effect carried out on 
an advised basis, so H.W. Wood had a responsibility to ensure as far as possible that 
the policy was suitable, this would include that it provided an appropriate level of 
cover.
Was the policy provided to K by H.W. Wood mis-sold?
Having decided that this was an advised sale, I have to determine if H.W. Wood 
provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy in order that it 
could make a reasonably informed decision whether to take the policy; and whether it 
took all reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of the policy it was offering for Ks 
needs at the time.
H.W. Wood says the policy it provided is a standard policy for this type of risk and 
widely used for businesses such as K; and that while there are slight variations in 
wordings around the disease clause this is not material and would not render the 
policy unsuitable or inadequate for the risk K presented.
H.W. Wood says it acted as a reasonably competent broker and obtained a standard 
market policy widely used for this type of risk. The policy provided to K does cover an 
occurrence of any one of a list of specified diseases at the premises or within five 
miles of the premises. However, Covid-19 was not one of the specified diseases. So 
there was no cover for Covid-19 under the policy sold by H.W. Wood.
I have also seen Ks previous policy document wording dated 19 February 2020, 
which includes cover for business interruption as a result of:
contagious or infectious diseases (excluding acquired immune deficiency syndrome
(AIDS) or and Aids related condition) an outbreak of which a competent public
authority has stipulated shall be notified to them, manifested by any persons whilst at
the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it.
This provides much broader cover for the occurrence of diseases than the policy 
provided by H.W. Wood and it is possible that Ks claim might have been met under 
this policy, if it could show there was manifestation of Covid-19 at, or within a 25 mile 
radius, of its premises.
H.W. Wood says it did not state that it would provide a like-for-like policy but it went
through, in some detail, the key elements of cover in the [new] policy, which were 
different from some elements of [Ks] previous insurance cover and it had offered 
to match Ks previous policys limits and excesses. In addition, it stated in emails at 
the time that it would maintain Ks cover with some additional increased cover in 
certain areas.
In my opinion, this does imply that it was going to provide like-for-like cover. And H.W. Woods final response letter seems to accept it had agreed to provide like-for-
like cover, as it says:
as part of our investigation we conducted a policy wording comparison of your 
policy wording compared to  [the previous policy]We agree with your complaint 
that the policy did not offer blanket like for like cover compared to the  [previous] 
policy. 
H.W. Wood acknowledged the sum insured was not the same and retrospectively 
amended that. It did not comment on the difference in the disease cover and why this 
was not considered at the time of the sale of the policy in its final response letter but 
stated it did not think that the claim would have been covered by Ks old policy in any 
event.
I agree with H.W. Wood that it is right to consider what would have been reasonable 
and in the minds of the parties at the time the policy was taken out and not look at 
this with the benefit of hindsight. There is no evidence that K raised any query about 
the disease cover, or Covid-19 generally with  [H.W. Wood]. I have seen the 
internal email, which mentions asking H.W. Wood to provide a quote and also 
checking cover for Covid-19 but this doesnt prove it asked H.W. Wood about such 
cover.
However, it does show that Covid-19, and the possible need for insurance cover 
relating to Covid-19, was in Ks mind. Given the pandemic and the increasing number 
of cases at the time it provided the quote, which was just a few days before Covid-19 
was made a notifiable disease in this country, I would have expected it to have also 
been in H.W. Woods mind too.
As H.W. Wood has said, by around mid-March insurers were becoming aware of 
increasing numbers of potential Covid-19 claims and taking steps to change their 
wordings to exclude Covid-19 related claims. While the policy H.W. Wood 
recommended may have been relatively standard and the disease cover might not 
have ordinarily be considered a significant term, given the circumstances at the time, 
and the fact H.W. Wood said it discussed Ks cover in detail and compared the 
previous policy, I think it should have done more.
While H.W. Wood did not apparently have the 2019 to 2020 documents, it had the 
previous years policy documentation. Given the circumstances at the time, I think it 
should have discussed the possibility of claims arising from Covid-19. And, even if it 
did not have sight of the previous policy terms, H.W. Wood could have been clearer 
about the disease cover within the policy it was recommending to K. It could also 
have told K to check what disease cover it had on the existing policy, so that K had 
clear information about the cover for Covid-19 before going ahead with the policy.
H.W. Wood has also said it should be borne in mind that it was arranging the policy 
urgently and K would have potentially been left without any cover, if it had not 
arranged this policy. I do not think this absolves H.W. Wood of its basic 
responsibilities as an independent insurance broker. 
Having considered all the evidence, I do think that H.W. Wood did mis-sell the policy,
as it did not give K sufficiently clear information about a significant policy term and 
did not take reasonable steps to ensure the policy it was arranging was suitable for 
its needs.
Would K have been able to renew with its previous insurer?Having decided that the policy was mis-sold, I have to consider what would have 
happened if H.W. Wood had given the right information and advice on 28 February 
2020. 
H.W. Wood says it was not possible to get a policy that would cover any notifiable 
disease by the time this cover was put in place for K, as the pandemic had become 
understood by insurers who were changing their policy wordings to exclude Covid-19 
related claims.
I also note that an internal note on H.W. Woods file says that Ks previous insurer 
had not invited it to renew cover. However, I do not think that is correct. I have seen 
the renewal documentation sent to K in February 2020 by its previous insurer, which 
includes the same disease wording as the previous year (i.e. cover for a 
manifestation of any infectious disease at the premises or within 25 miles radius of 
the premises).
The previous insurer sent an email dated 20 February 2020 attaching the renewal
documentation which said K only had to contact it before 1 March 2020 to confirm 
renewal of the policy. 
So K may have been arranging the policy with H.W. Wood at the last minute but I
see no reason to think this was because K could not renew with its previous insurer.
It seems clear to me from the evidence that K could have renewed the previous 
policy, with the wider disease coverage, up to 28 February 2020, if it had decided not 
to take the policy offered by H.W. Wood. I also think it is likely K would have chosen 
to renew its previous policy, if it had known that there was no cover for any Covid-19 
claim under the new policy. I will explain why.
From the information I have seen, the main reason K was seeking the alternative 
cover from H.W. Wood was to see if it could get the same cover for a lower premium. 
The new policy was quoted at just over £2,000 and the renewal with its previous 
insurer was quoted at just over £3,000 for the year. The difference in price was 
significant.
However, I also note that K had made mention of cover for Covid-19 internally, so it 
was concerned about the possible effect of Covid-19 on its business. I think if it had 
known of the difference in disease cover between the two policies, it is likely K would 
have renewed its previous policy and would not have gone ahead with the policy 
offered by K.
I also consider it likely that Ks claim would have been covered under the previous 
policy, so I think H.W. Wood should compensate K for the missed opportunity to 
claim under the insurance policy for its losses.
I have to therefore consider what financial loss K has suffered by not being able to 
make this claim. I have done so by considering the terms of the previous policy and 
how I think the previous insurer would have assessed Ks claim.
The previous policy, said it will cover loss resulting from:
Murder Disease or Public Health Closure
Interruption of or interference with your Business in consequence of Damage asinsured by this Section shall include 
(b) contagious or infectious human disease  an outbreak of which a competent
public authority has stipulated shall be notified to the, manifested by any person
whilst at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it.
It goes on to say that:
Insurers liability under this extension in respect of each and every claim shall not
exceed 10% of the sum insured (or 133.33% of the estimated amount) or £100,000
whichever is the less or unless stated otherwise in the Policy Schedule.
The sum insured for business interruption was £700,000, over 24 month indemnity 
period, so the maximum claim payment would be £70,000.
In the event of business interruption covered under the above section, the policy will 
provide for loss of gross profit:
Gross profit Means amount by which
(1) The sum of the amount of the Turnover and the amounts of the closing stock
and work in progress shall exceed
(2) the sum of the amounts of the opening stock and work in progress and the
amount of Uninsured Working Expenses.
The policy also states:
"Basis of payment... the amount payable as indemnity thereunder shall be
(i) in respect of reduction in turnover the sum produced by applying the Rate of Gross
Profit to the amount by which the Turnover during the indemnity period shall fall short
of the Standard turnover in consequence of the damage less any sum saved
during the indemnity period in respect of such of the charges and expenses of your
Business payable out of Gross Profit as may cease or be reduced in consequence of
the Damage.
Standard turnover being the turnover in the preceding 12 months immediately before 
the damage. And rate of gross profit means rate of Gross Profit earned on your 
Turnover during the financial year immediately before the date of the Damage.
K has calculated what it considers it has lost from March 2020 up to February 2021 
as, even though the business interruption losses continued after that date, it accepts 
that the insurer would have changed the policy terms meaning it would not be 
covered after this policy year ended. However, the policy provided a maximum 
indemnity period of 24 months for business interruption, so I think cover would have 
extended beyond the end date of this contract in February 2021, if the insured peril 
continued. 
The insured peril that would have triggered cover under the policy was the 
manifestation of Covid-19 within a 25 mile radius of Ks premises. I think it likely that 
after the last lockdown, which started in January 2021 and ended in April 2021, there 
were no further losses caused by manifestation of the disease within the relevant 
policy period. Thats because I think any further losses due to Covid-19 would have 
been due to manifestations of the disease which occurred after the policy would have 
ended and so not been covered. So, I think the total indemnity period is likely to be 
from March 2020 to April 2021.K said that in the period March 2020 to February 2021 it lost £130,584.41 in income. 
K also says it received several grants and furlough payments totalling £90,666, so it 
put its total net loss of profit at £39,918.41 over the 12 months. However, whilst we 
consider insurers can take account of the furlough payments K received when 
assessing the loss of gross profit, as they represent a saving in wages costs, the 
local Government grants K received should not be deducted. These amount to 
£36,000 from the information Ive seen. 
K also says there was an upward trend in business but I am not persuaded that it is
reasonable to make any adjustment to reflect an upward trend. This is because while 
there were fluctuations in gross turnover in the preceding 12 month period the 
average gross turnover in the period March 2019 to February 2020 inclusive was 
approximately £28,000, and in February 2020 it was £27,210.21 and March 2020 it 
was £28,665.32. I also note there was higher gross turnover than this in April, 
September and October 2021 and January 2020... So while there were fluctuations 
and K says March 2020 was the first month it broke even, I cant see there was a 
consistent upward trend in business.
K also said it had made some savings in normal costs for marketing, electricity and 
water bills but overall it had incurred additional costs of working of just under £11,000 
from March 2020 to February 2021. This includes around £2,500 for additional 
cleaning costs, £1,000 for health and safety equipment and £8,419.04 in legal fees in 
relation to the deferral of rent.
However, the policy schedule stated that additional costs of working were not 
insured, so I do not consider that these can be taken into account. And as stated 
above, the policy states the basis of payment will be the based on the difference in 
turnover/income in the indemnity period compared to the preceding 12 month period. 
So even though the additional costs might affect the net profit K earned in this period, 
they are not covered. 
However, the insurer would be entitled to deduct the savings, which appear to be 
£1,160 for water, £1,605 for electricity and £320 for marketing, so a total costs saving 
of £3,085.
K says the loss of net turnover was £130,584.41. Having deducted the furlough 
payments of £58,602 and costs savings of £3,085, this means a loss of net turnover 
of £68,897.41.
I consider it likely there were other wages savings, as K says that it topped up the 
furlough payments for three members of staff, so they received their full wages, 
which suggests it did not top up the wages of other members of staff. This would be a 
saving on its normal costs.
K has confirmed that in the year 23 March 2020 to 28 February 2021, it paid 
£8,388.61 less in wages that the same period in the previous year. So this would 
bring the loss of net turnover to £60,508.80.
This has all been calculated from 23 March 2020 to 28 February 2021 (a period of 
342 days) and equates to an average loss of around £176 per day. But, as said 
above, I think the indemnity period would have been up to 12 April 2021. 
The indemnity period would then go from 342 days to 385 (43 days more). If I pro rata the loss, it would be £68,116.63 for the period March 2020 to April 2021. I think 
this is fair, as the premises could not open until 12 April 2021, so its losses are likely 
to have been the same in the period from February to April 2021. 
This might not be exactly how the insurer would have calculated Ks loss but the 
opportunity to have this assessed by the insurer has been lost due to the mis-sale of 
the insurance policy to K. 
I have therefore considered what I think the fair and reasonable outcome is, having 
regard for all the circumstances and consider that H.W. Wood should pay
compensation of £68,116.63, less any excess that would have applied under the 
previous policy.
I also have to consider whether interest should also be added to this amount, given 
that if K had been able to make the claim to its insurer, it is likely that it would have 
been settled some time ago. In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is 
reasonable that an insurer waits for losses to accrue before making settlement. 
However, it is not necessarily reasonable that an insurer wait for the end of an 
indemnity period before making settlement.
Generally speaking, I would expect regular monthly payments to be made. It is also
reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess any claim and make a 
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this on a claim of this nature would be 
around a month from when the claim is claim.
So, if K made a claim immediately it was required to close, the first payment would 
not have been before May 2020. And the whole settlement would likely have been 
paid by February/March 2021. K has also told us that it took out a Government 
bounce back loan of £50,000 in May 2020. As part of this loan was for the money 
that K should have received from its insurer, I think it is relevant. 
I understand interest is not charged on the bounce back loan for the first 12 months 
and thereafter interest is charged at 2.5%. So K would have started to pay interest of 
2.5% on this amount from May 2021. 
Having considered everything, I therefore dont think H.W. Wood need pay interest 
until May [2021], as K had the loan for more than the claim amount at 0% interest 
until then. After that date, I think it would be fair and reasonable for H.W. Wood to 
[pay] 2.5% simple interest per annum on the whole settlement as due to H.W. 
Woods error K was without money it should have had.
For the reasons set out above, I concluded that I intended to make H.W. Wood pay K the 
sum of £68,116.63, less any excess that would have applied to the business interruption 
claim under Ks previous policy, as compensation for the mis-sale of its insurance policy; 
plus interest at 2.5% simple per annum on the whole settlement amount from the date 
interest became payable on Ks bounce back loan (in May 2021) until the date H.W. Wood 
makes payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further evidence or 
arguments they want considered. K has responded and confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
H.W. Wood has also responded. It does not accept my provisional decision. It has made a 
number of comments, which I have summarised below:  
On 27 February 2020, Covid-19 was daily headline news and the Government had 
been advised to expect 80% of the UK population to become infected. 
On 28 February 2020, the first UK case had been transmitted within the UK and it 
was the worst stock market trading week since 2008. 
On 5 March 2020, only a few days after the insurance was put in place, Covid-19 
was designated a notifiable disease in the UK.
The pandemic was getting worse each day and all this caused the UK insurance 
market to start imposing blanket restrictions on all types of policies relating to 
anything arising from Covid-19, to minimise their exposure and essentially shutting 
the door to any possibility of negotiating such cover. 
So while the deadline for K to accept the quote from its previous insurer was on 28 
February 2020, it is likely it would have imposed an exclusion for any Covid-19 
related claims if K had contacted it that day to renew. 
It therefore does not think that K would have been able to renew the previous policy 
on the same terms; and given the circumstances at the time it is unfair and harsh to 
require it to effectively provide K with Covid-19 cover when such cover was not 
available by the end February 2020. 
This would be out of step with the well-known legal principle of causation as even if 
it did mis-sell the policy it recommended to K, it was not the cause of Ks loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered in my provisional decision whether it was likely that K could have renewed the 
previous policy and concluded that I thought it likely that it was still available to K to renew 
up to 28 February 2020, if it had chosen not to take the policy proposed by H.W. Wood. 
I agree that the pandemic was becoming more serious at that time. In my provisional 
decision I referred to an internal email provided by K which mentions asking H.W. to provide 
a quote and also checking cover for Covid-19. So it was in Ks mind at the time. I also agree 
it would have been in the minds of any insurers. It should also have been in H.W. Woods 
mind, which is why I concluded that it should have been clearer about the disease cover 
within the policy it recommended to K and told K to check what disease cover was provided 
with its previous policy as well. 
I also accept that some insurers might have been starting to impose exclusions relating to 
Covid-19 from end February 2020. However, it was not the case that all were and there is no 
evidence that Ks previous insurer did so. The previous insurer had offered the policy to 
renew on the existing terms and had not made any suggestion that the was no longer 
available to accept. K had until 28 February 2020 to renew that policy. 
I remain of the opinion therefore that it is more likely than not that K could have renewed with 
the previous insurer and would have done so, if it had been alerted to the fact the disease 
cover in the two policies differed. I also remain of the opinion I think it is more likely than not 
that the claim would have been covered under the previous policy. 
H.W. Wood has not made any comment on the way I calculated the financial loss K suffered 
as a result of this. And K has not provided any further information about this either. I therefore see no reason to change my provisional decision that H.W. Wood should pay the 
sum of £68,116.63, less any excess, together with interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require H.W. Wood Limited to do
the following:
Pay K the sum of £68,116.63, less any excess that would have applied to the business
interruption claim under Ks previous policy, as compensation for the mis-sale of its
insurance policy; plus interest at 2.5% simple per annum on the whole settlement amount
from the date interest became payable on Ks bounce back loan (in May 2021) until the date
H.W. Wood makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman