The complaint
Mr A complains about a business account he has with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr A 
complains on behalf of his business, A. But throughout this decision, I'll refer to Mr A.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr A received a payment of £1000 to his business account from one of his 
clients. Later, on 17 April 2019, Mr As client got in touch with Barclays to say that she was 
concerned that she had been the victim of a scam. And that she was concerned about the 
£1000 she had transferred to Mr As business account. 
Subsequently, Mr As accounts were blocked on 17 April 2019, and Mr A wasnt able to get 
access to his accounts until they had been reviewed by a specialist team. The £1000 was 
also removed from the account. After the review had taken place Mr A was able to access 
his account again on 8 May 2019 and the money was returned.
Mr A was unhappy with Barclays decision to block the account without notifying him. Mr A 
has told us that this had caused him much inconvenience and unnecessary stress. Hes said 
that he was abroad when the account was blocked, and he had to return to the UK early in 
order to get the account unblocked. Mr A also tells us that hed made a number of phone 
calls to try and resolve the issue. In order to resolve the matter, Mr A would like £19,096.31 
to compensate him for financial loss and inconvenience. 
Barclays responded to Mr A to say that it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked his 
account. But it noted that Mr A had suffered inconvenience because of the block that was 
applied, and it offered Mr A £600.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr A. He didnt think that Barclays needed to do 
anything more than what it had already offered to settle the complaint. Our investigator found 
that Barclays applied the block to Mr As account inline with the terms and conditions of the 
account. But he noted that Barclays had taken longer than it said it would to review Mr As 
account. Because of this, he thought the offer of £600 was fair. 
Mr A didnt agree. He felt that during a phone call he had with a representative at Barclays, 
they told him that the bank shouldnt have blocked the account and that Mr A should seek 
compensation for this. Mr A suggested this service gets a copy of that call recording to 
support what Mr A was told.
Because Mr A didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1433845reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I have seen, Im not upholding Mr As complaint and so I wont be 
asking Barclays to compensate Mr A anymore than what it has already offered.
When coming to my decision, the first thing I have considered is whether or not Barclays 
were right to block the account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As account. 
They state that Barclays can block the account if it reasonably considers it necessary. 
Barclays has given us information about the reason the block was placed on the account. 
This shows that one of Mr As clients got in touch with it to say that it thought Mr As 
business had taken money from her as part of a scam. Based on these reasons, I think 
Barclays were within their rights to block the account until it had the chance to investigate 
the matter. 
Its worth noting that the process of blocking accounts isnt unusual in the banking industry. 
And is designed to protect the banks, its customers and the public from fraudulent activity. 
For the reasons Ive stated above, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it placed a 
block on Mr As account while it was under review.
Mr A has said to us that during a call with a Barclays representative, he was told that 
Barclays shouldnt have placed the block on the account  and it shouldnt have done this 
before speaking with him first. Ive listened to the call Mr A has referred to, and I dont agree 
with his understanding of the call. While the representative of Barclays stated that the 
information it had been provided from Mr As client wasnt clear, he made Mr A aware that 
the block still needed to be placed on that account while that information was reviewed. The 
representative removed the block on the call as he was satisfied that the information it had 
got from Mr As client was relating to a dispute between Mr A and his client  and not as a 
result of a scam.
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays didnt get in touch with him before placing a block on the 
account  hes also said that the representative he spoke to agreed with this point. After 
listening to the call, I didnt hear the representative say this. I can see that Mr A spoke to 
Barclays the day after the block was placed and he was told his account needed to be 
reviewed before the block could be removed. Barclays didnt need to get in touch with Mr A 
before the block was applied. 
Mr A feels that Barclays unlawfully removed the £1000 from his business account. But 
Barclays are entitled to do this while the account is being investigated. And as Mr As 
accounts were blocked at this time, he wouldnt have been able to have access to the funds 
anyway, so the removal of them hasnt had a big impact on Mr A. 
However, notes on Mr As account state that the review should take up to 10 working days. I 
can see the block was applied to Mr As account on 17 April 2019 and wasnt removed until 
8 May 2019  which is 15 working days. Looking at the account notes provided by Barclays, 
I can see a representative first tried to contact Mr A on 30 April 2019 to discuss the review, 
but the representative wasnt able to get through to him. I can then see that Mr A has been in 
touch with Barclays in the interim to try and resolve the matter and wasnt able to speak to 
anyone until 8 May 2019. 
There doesnt appear to be any real reason for the delay in the account being unblocked  
and I cant see that Barclays made any real attempt to contact Mr A again after it tried on 30 
April 2019. So I think Barclays could have done better here. Mr A says that he was told by a representative that he should claim back all the costs he 
incurred as a result of his account being blocked. While I agree that the representative 
wasnt very helpful in managing Mr As expectations here, he didnt say that Mr A should 
seek to get this money back  but he said that Mr A could make a complaint and ask for this. 
Having taken everything into consideration, while I think Barclays could have been quicker in 
trying to get in touch with Mr A to remove the block, I dont think it did anything wrong in 
applying the block. I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr A to not have 
access to his accounts, for reasons that he feels unnecessary. But Barclays has a duty to 
review accounts where it has reason. So I think that Barclays offer of £600 is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr A's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman