DRN-1697097
 
Complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs S was sold a MPPI policy in 2008 during a meeting. The PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs S was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in March 2020 explaining why I intended to 
uphold Mrs S complaint. I have copied my provisional decision below as it forms part of my 
final decision.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs S confirmed that she had nothing further to add 
and BoS offered to settle Mrs S complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Given that BoS have offered to settle Mrs S complaint and havent raised any further points 
(neither has Mrs S), I see no reason to depart from the findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. These were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Having done that, Im currently intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I will now explain why.
BoS accept they advised Mrs S to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was suitable 
for Mrs S. I have seen a copy of the demands and needs statement and the questions asked 
of Mrs S at the time of the sale. However, there is no mention in these documents of what 
Mrs S existing repayment provisions were at the time of the sale and so I cant see the basis 
on which the policy was recommended to Mrs S. And given what Mrs S has told us about 
her circumstances and repayment provisions at the time of the sale, I dont think the policy 
was suitable for Mrs S. Mrs S has told us she was entitled to 9 months full sick pay followed by 3 months half sick 
pay from her employer. I havent seen any evidence which would contradict this. So it 
appears that Mrs S already had the equivalent of 10 and a half months worth of sick pay at 
the time of the sale. So the policy would have only provided cover for an additional 1 and a 
half months. The benefit provided by the policy was £250 per month.
Although I havent seen a statement of Mrs S savings from the exact time of the sale, I have 
seen a statement from the previous year and also a statement which post-dates the sale and 
both of these statements show Mrs S had in excess of £5000 in savings  in fact the year 
before she took out PPI, she had just under £9000 in savings. I have also seen a copy of 
Mrs S current account statement from a few months after the sale and this also shows that 
she had funds available to her. 
Mrs S mortgage was an interest only mortgage and so the representative should have 
satisfied themselves that Mrs S had an adequate repayment vehicle in place to pay her 
mortgage at the end of the term. I note Mrs S mortgage repayments were less than £200 per 
month and that the mortgage was only for approximately 4 years. Mrs S has told us that she 
intended to pay the mortgage off entirely within a couple of years of taking it out and I note 
that she did pay her mortgage off less than two years after she had taken the mortgage out. 
So all in all, I think its more likely that Mrs S did have sufficient provisions in place and as 
such in the particular circumstances of this case, I think Mrs S did not have a need for PPI.
So having taken everything into consideration, I currently think BoS mis-sold Mrs S this 
MPPI policy.
It follows that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Fair compensation
BoS should put Mrs S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and BoS should:
 
Pay Mrs S the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give 
  Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
My final decisionI uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland plc and require Bank of Scotland plc to 
pay Mrs S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman