DRN-2216322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC started action for possession instead of 
agreeing a repayment plan for their mortgage arrears.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage has been in arrears for some time. Mr T contacted Barclays in 
June 2019 to agree a repayment plan. Barclays said because of the number of repayment 
plans broken previously, a new plan required approval from a specialist panel.
Mr T told Barclays his business was doing better and receiving monthly income of about 
£7,500. He was planning on making overpayments from a tax rebate and he could take a big 
dividend from his business. Barclays asked for bank statements for the business and 
information from his accountant about the tax rebate, to support the referral to its specialist 
panel.
Barclays says Mr T didnt provide the required information, and the information he did 
provide didnt support what hed said about his income and expenditure. Barclays said Mr 
and Mrs T hadnt consistently made monthly overpayments, suggesting the plan wasnt 
affordable. Barclays says eight previous plans were broken due to late or non-payment. It 
didnt think Mr and Mrs T could clear the arrears within a reasonable time frame. It didnt 
refer their request for a repayment plan to the specialist panel.
Barclays re-started legal proceedings. Mr and Mrs T brought a complaint to us. Mr T said 
theyve reduced the arrears since 2018 by making monthly overpayments and will continue 
to reduce them over the next year. He says its unfair for Barclays to refuse to agree a 
repayment plan in these circumstances.
As I didnt agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator, I sent a provisional 
decision to the parties to explain what I thought about the complaint and why I didnt intend 
to uphold it. Neither party responded with further comments or evidence. Having considered 
this again, I see no reason to change the outcome or reasoning from those set out in my 
provisional decision  and which are substantially the same as below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage account is in arrears. Its not in dispute that their arrears are of 
long standing and previous plans had been broken. Its important to note this, as it provides 
background for the complaint. But rather than set out everything thats happened, Im going 
to focus on whats at the heart of this complaint  whether it was fair for Barclays to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ts request for a repayment plan and start recovery action.
Mr and Mrs Ts account was in arrears of about £18,000 in mid-2019, when they asked to 
agree a repayment plan. Mr and Mrs T had reduced their arrears from about £25,000. Mr T 
said his business was in better shape and he could continue to make overpayments to 
reduce the arrears. Barclays asked Mr T for evidence to support what hed said.
Barclays didnt receive this evidence. It says the bank statements Mr T provided didnt show 
the level of income hed told Barclays  and because he didnt provide the statements in full 
Barclays couldnt see the source of the income. Mr T didnt provide evidence to support what 
hed said about the availability of dividends and a tax refund.
Before agreeing a repayment plan, Barclays needs to check its affordable and sustainable. I 
think its reasonable in the circumstances for it to ask Mr T to provide evidence to support 
what he says about the income he expects to receive, from his business or any other source. 
I dont think Barclays needed to tell Mr T he hadnt provided this evidence. This was 
evidence to support what Mr T had said about his own business  something Id expect Mr T 
to be well placed to provide. I think Mr T would have known what hed provided and whether 
this supported what hed said about his business and his ability to maintain higher monthly 
payments.
I think it was reasonable for Barclays not to refer Mr Ts request for a repayment plan to its 
panel. It seems unlikely it would have been approved, based on the information Barclays 
had received.
Mr T says he wants Barclays to agree a repayment plan, as his circumstances have 
improved dramatically and he can afford overpayments of £500 each month. Mr and Mrs T 
have certainly made efforts to reduce their arrears. However, there remain arrears of about 
£13,000 and Barclays says no overpayments have been received since February 2020.
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable or fair to require Barclays to offer a 
repayment plan to Mr and Mrs T. It hasnt received the information and evidence it needs to 
assess whether the plan is affordable for them and likely to be sustained.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to start recovery action when the mortgage 
was in arrears of long standing, repayment plans had been broken and there wasnt a 
repayment plan in place.
Barclays put recovery action on hold when Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to us. Due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines. Its current guidelines say that lenders cant take or resume possession action 
until November 2020. This gives Mr and Mrs T some breathing space, to provide the 
information Barclays needs to assess a repayment plan. If Mr and Mrs T have evidence that 
they can afford and sustain overpayments to clear their arrears, they should provide this to 
Barclays. Id expect Barclays to treat Mr and Mrs T fairly, when assessing their proposals.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman