DRN-4341872
The complaint
Mrs G complains that it was unfair of Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Hitachi
Capital Consumer Finance) (HCCF) to reject claims she made under the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product.
I have referred to Mrs G alone in this decision because the finance used to (part) fund the
purchase is in her sole name - meaning shes the only complainant eligible to bring this
complaint to our service.
Mrs G is represented by a firm of solicitors (that Ill call N) but Ill refer generally to anything
thats been said on her behalf as if Mrs G had said it herself, to keep things simple. 
What happened
On 2 January 2020 Mrs G and Mr V purchased a points based membership of a holiday club
(from a supplier that Ill call CLC). The membership cost around £18,000 and they funded
the purchase by trading in an existing trial membership (that they bought in June 2019 at a
sales presentation in the UK) and taking out a fixed sum loan with HCCF, in Mrs Gs sole
name, for the balance.
In June 2021, N sent a letter of claim to HCCF stating that Mrs G was unhappy with the sale
process, there were breaches of contract and timeshare legislation and CLC made
misrepresentations that induced Mrs G to make the purchase (and take out the loan) when
she wouldnt have done so otherwise. 
N considers HCCF is liable for anything said during pre-contract negotiations under section 
56 CCA and HCCF is equally liable with CLC for any misrepresentations made and/or 
breach of contract under section 75 CCA. In summary, N said:-
the membership was purchased at a meeting abroad (during a bonus week included
with the trial membership) and Mrs G was told attendance was a condition of the trial
membership but the event would only last 90 minutes, when it actually lasted several
hours and, using high pressure sales techniques, they were bombarded with the
purported benefits of membership, including the investment potential;
Mrs G was reassured by the promise of a locked in future holiday price and the
investment potential when she agreed to make the purchase - they were told that
points purchased could be used as a down payment towards full property
ownership, that was purely for investment purposes and came with a rental
guarantee  which amounts to an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS)
thats prohibited from promotion;
Mrs G was concerned at the interest rate (of 11.9%), because she knew other loans
were available at lower rates, but she was told this was the only way to fund the
membership and she could re-finance on her return to the UK;
the holiday club didnt exist - the vacation club named in the membership agreement
(that Ill refer to as CLCVC) has been dormant since incorporation;
CLC went into administration in November 2020 and the Administrators Proposal
says it is a sales arm and doesnt own the properties or have rights to weeks in the
timeshares - so the sale contract and membership agreement are mere puffery,
CLC purported to sell rights in property it had no right to and (given the
Administrators Proposal notes numerous judgments and claims lodged in the
administration far outweigh the assets available) theres no realistic prospect it will
continue trading;
membership conferred no benefits - the same was on offer at a lower price
elsewhere and, while Mrs G did make bookings using the membership through a
third party marketed alongside as a way to book holidays worldwide with points, the
two bookings she made required payment of additional fees and the third party failed
refund these when the trips couldnt be taken due to travel restrictions;
CLC breached the Timeshare Holiday Products Resale and Exchange Contracts
Regulations 2010 (the 2010 regulations) as payment was taken within the cooling
off period; and
Mrs G wasnt given certain key information or told that the resort meeting was a sales
event and the product was marketed as a long term holiday product (LTHP) but
there was a failure to provide for the price to be paid in instalments.
N considers the relationship between Mrs G and HCCF is unfair under section 140A CCA
due to misrepresentations made and other issues referred to above. Mrs G seeks repayment 
of all monies paid under the timeshare agreement and the loan plus cancellation of future 
loan payments, recovery of the trade in value of the trial membership (£4,395), legal costs 
and interest. She also wants the terms of the timeshare agreement altered so that the end 
date is amended to 21 days after the claim was made to HCCF - or HCCF should take over 
the timeshare contract and any future liabilities. And she would like any reference to the loan 
removed from her credit file.
HCCF forwarded the claims to CLC and responded taking issue with various allegations
and denying any breach of contract and/or misrepresentation as follows (in summary):-
Mrs G was told that theyd have to attend a presentation in the resort during phone 
calls, in the bonus week voucher and in the reservation confirmation, they were also 
informed that the presentation would last for some time and the multimedia 
presentation was not high pressured - they could have left when it ended but chose 
to stay and make a purchase;
Mrs G had 14 days to cancel both the membership and the loan and she could have
used alternative finance to fund the purchase;
the holiday club exists, this product is not a UCIS  its a points based membership 
and it wasnt marketed as a LTHP and the contract documents make clear its a
timeshare;
membership is not an investment and it was not sold as such - membership can be
traded in towards a property purchase and there are options to accept a leaseback
providing rental returns through CLC, but members can also simply rent out privately
or stay themselves;
theres no requirement for CLC to own what it was selling - Mrs G and Mr V did not
purchase rights in a property, they purchased points;
CLCs administration is irrelevant, its not responsible for the day to day management
 this is handled by a different entity (that Ill call CW) which continues to trade and
the membership purchased can be provided in line with the agreement; and
there was no advance payment, payment (in full) was received from HCCF after the
14-day withdrawal period ended.
One of our investigators considered the matter and she didnt recommend the complaint
should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded theres enough evidence to reasonably find there
was a breach of contract or misrepresentations were made at the point of sale and she didntthink the contract terms - or the relationship between Mrs G and HCCF - were unfair.
Mrs G disagreed and N said (in summary):-
Mrs G had no interest in purchasing a membership before the resort sales meeting
so the sole reason for her purchase must have been representations made then;
Mrs G wasnt told that this was a sales event and this misrepresentation induced her
attend when she wouldnt otherwise have done so;
Mrs G was told that the only way to fund the membership was a loan from HCCF
which was untrue and, despite her concern at the interest rate, she was compelled to
sign up for the membership and take out the loan;
the only logical inference is that there was an undisclosed commission which was
both a misrepresentation and is unfair under section 140A;
CLCVC is dormant and has never traded so it was misrepresented as being a viable
vacation club;
Mrs G was told she would save money on holidays which was untrue and she would
not have made the purchase otherwise  shes done her own research and found
identical holidays at the same resorts for lower cost (than the annual maintenance
fees);
CLC is in administration and cannot fulfil its contractual obligations so Mrs G is
entitled to a refund CLC and she has a like claim against HCCF;
the Administrators report confirms that CLC did not own the properties it sold rights
in which, in addition to being a breach of contact, is another misrepresentation; and
Mrs G is entitled to rescind the agreement and the relationship between her and
HCCF is unfair under s140A.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She acknowledged CLC is in
administration but she didnt think this means relevant contractual obligations cant be
fulfilled and she remained of the view there isnt enough evidence that misrepresentations
were made. Shes satisfied that Mrs G signed paperwork, which included the relevant terms 
and conditions as well as a description of what was on offer, and she had a 14 day cooling 
off period to voice any concerns and/or withdraw from the purchase and the finance.
Mrs G didnt think that was fair and she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter so it
was passed to me for a decision. Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded 
to uphold this complaint. My reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however 
and I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and 
respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision 
on 14 august 2023 and Ive set out what I decided provisionally (and why) below (in italics). 
This forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the merits of this complaint on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs Gs representatives have made very detailed submissions which include references to
various regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and
(where appropriate) good industry practice at the relevant time, when I make my decision.
And I want to assure the parties, if I dont address every single point thats been raised, itsnot because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
I should make it clear at the outset that Im not deciding the outcome of any claim that Mrs G
may have under the CCA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision, Im considering
whether HCCF should reasonably have accepted her claims.
Claims made under sections 56 and 75 CCA
Theres no suggestion that the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required under the CCA
is not present here and I havent considered this further because Im not minded to uphold
the complaint for other reasons  as Ill explain below.
Broadly speaking, section 56 provides that any pre-sale negotiations conducted by the
supplier in relation to the product purchase financed by the loan that HCCF provided were
conducted by the supplier as HCCFs agent. And, under section 75, a borrower has an equal
right to claim against a credit provider and a supplier if theres been a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain circumstances.
For me to find misrepresentations were made here, Id need to be satisfied not only that CLC
told Mrs G something untrue during the course of pre-sale negotiations but, in addition, she
reasonably relied on this when she made the decision to purchase the timeshare and take
out the loan.
I cant be certain what was said exactly when Mrs G made this purchase and I make my
decision based on the evidence available. Ive got somewhat limited information about the
misrepresentations said to have been made - I havent seen a statement from Mrs G setting
out her memory of what happened in any detail, for example. Ive thought carefully about the
evidence that has been provided - including the paperwork completed at the point of sale.
I can see the membership acquisition agreement signed by Mrs G says (at paragraph 5 of
the first page) the purchase of our membership in vacation club is a personal right for the
primary purpose of holidays and is neither specifically for direct purposes of a trade in nor as
a real estate interest or an investment in real estate, and that CLC makes no representation
as to the future price or value of the Vacation Club Holiday product.
Ive also seen a members declaration, consisting of a single page where each paragraph
seems to be initialled, and Mrs G has signed at the end to confirm that she read and
understood everything. This says (among other things) all reservations are made strictly on
a first come basis and subject to availability,  we understand that CLC World Travel aims to
provide personal service to our members and its prices will be comparable to but not
necessarily cheaper than other providers of the same services and, at paragraph 6, CLC
has a commercial arrangement with the lender who is providing the loan you have
requested and as part of those commercial termsmay be entitled to a commission from the
lender. Details of commission in respect of your loan are available on request.
I think this was probably a fairly significant financial commitment for Mrs G  she was taking
out a loan repayable over 15 years at a cost of nearly £40,000 (including interest). And I find
it reasonable to expect a borrower to consider the documents fairly carefully in this situation.
So, if Mrs G was told something different (to whats set out in the sale paperwork) by the
salesperson at the point of sale - that induced her to enter the relevant agreements - Id
reasonably expect her to question this. Even if she felt unable to do so at the point of sale,
Im satisfied Mrs G had the opportunity to raise queries later - and she could have withdrawn
from both agreements, if she wanted to. The membership acquisition paperwork contained a
form specifically for this purpose and the loan agreement explains how this option could be
exercised fairly clearly on the first page.Ive seen nothing to show that Mrs G sought to withdraw from either agreement within the
relevant 14 day period. Im satisfied she seems to have received and considered the
relevant paperwork in some detail during this time. Ive seen an email exchange between her
and one of the suppliers representatives dated 13 January 2020 when Mrs G asked about
ten fairly detailed questions. I note Mrs G didnt raise any concerns about the sales process
in this correspondence. On the contrary, she said she had a lovely time at the resort during
the bonus week. I find it difficult to reconcile this with various allegations made on her behalf.
N suggests that the payment of commission was concealed but (in light of paragraph 6 of the
members declaration in particular) I think Mrs G was made reasonably aware that
commission was paid. And I havent been supplied with any evidence to suggest that she
enquired further about this at the time - or she was told something untrue regarding the
payment of commission.
N also makes various claims about the status of CLC and CLCVC. It states that CLC is in
administration, it didnt own the relevant properties and CLCVC is dormant - which means
there was no holiday club, so this was misrepresented - and the contract cant be fulfilled.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied that being in administration doesnt mean a company is
unable to meet its contractual obligations. I note Mrs G said she tried to book holidays via a
third party but these didnt go ahead due to restrictions (presumably Covid related) and the
third party hasnt provided a refund of additional fees paid - but I cant fairly find this amounts
to a breach of contract by CLC.
Having considered everything available so far, Im not persuaded that I can safely find
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentations were made here. And I cant
reasonably conclude that its unreasonable for HCCF to decline the relevant claims.
Was the product a UCIS?
If I understand N correctly, it says if the membership Mrs G acquired was a UCIS that could
mean the loan agreement (taken alongside the product it was used to finance) led to an
unfair debtor/creditor relationship between Mrs G and HCCF. So, before I go on to deal with
Mrs Gs claim under section 140A CCA, I think its useful explain why I dont think the
product could amount to a UCIS.
In order to be a UCIS, this product would have to not only fall within the definition of a
collective investment scheme (CIS) under FSMA (section 235) but outside of the definition of
arrangements which do not amount to a collective investment scheme set out in the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) Order 2001 (the
CIS order). And, if the purchase agreement qualified as a timeshare contract, it cant have
given rise to a CIS because the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective
Investment Schemes) Order 2001 (the 2001 CIS Order) provides in Schedule 1 (Paragraph
13) that arrangements dont amount to a CIS if ...the rights or interests of the participants
are rights under a timeshare contract....
Regulation 7 of the 2010 Regulations defines a timeshare contract as a contract between a
trader and a consumer under which the consumer, for consideration, acquires the right to
use overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation and which has a
duration of more than one year . I think an important phrase in this definition, in the
context of this complaint, is the consumer...acquires (the relevant rights to use
accommodation). I think acquire given its normal meaning relates to gaining something or
coming into possession of it. So, if the purchase agreement was a timeshare contract, it
must have caused Mrs G to have gained or come into possession of rights to use overnight
accommodation.Looking at the relevant agreement, Im satisfied that Mrs G paid for the right to use overnight
accommodation for more than one period of occupation (including accommodation from a
pool of accommodation) under an agreement that had a duration of more than one year. I
see no reason why the purchase agreement wasnt a timeshare contract and Im minded to
find it is therefore excluded from being a CIS and cant (by definition) be a UCIS.
Claims made under section 140A CCA
This provision looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And a court can
make an order under section 140B CCA in connection with a credit agreement if it decides
that the relationship between the lender and creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair.
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs G and HCCF is
unfair but I think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account.
A court will take account of all matters it thinks relevant in relation to both the creditor and
debtor in any section 140A claim. Ive considered the evidence provided about Mrs Rs
individual circumstances when this sale took place. Ive also thought about CLCs actions
and Ive looked at the regulations applicable CLC (as a timeshare provider) at the point of
sale. Its not my role to decide CLCs legal liability in regard to these regulations. But I think
theyre relevant in determining a standard of commercial conduct expected and, whilst any
potential breach of the rules isnt determinative of the question posed by s140A, it may have
a legitimate influence on whether an unfair relationship between Mrs G and HCCF existed.
N argues that the membership was misrepresented to such an extent that this gives rise to
an unfair relationship but Im not persuaded thats right. For the reasons given earlier in this
decision, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude that theres an
actionable misrepresentation here. I consider the paperwork provided at the point of sale
sets out the key facts - such as the cost, the length of the contract and annual management
fees - and it said the membership should not be viewed as a financial investment and
booking was subject to availability. Looking at the email exchange on 13 January 2020
especially, I consider Mrs G had a good grasp of what she was buying and the associated
finance.
N states that Mrs G wasnt given advance notice required of the resort sales event and she
was pressurised into making this purchase and taking out the loan. CLC denies that  it says
Mrs G was made aware of the nature and length of the presentation beforehand and she
could have left once a multimedia presentation was finished but chose to stay. Mrs G hasnt
provided a detailed statement about what happened but I accept these sales meetings could
sometimes be lengthy and salespeople would highlight the benefits of the holiday product.
Im satisfied that Mrs G had already attended one sales presentation in the UK  having
been referred by a friend. And I note the letter of claim says she was reluctant to attend the
resort meeting as she had recently attended a sales event and been told all about the club.
I think its likely Mrs G was made aware that shed need to attend a sales presentation
during her time at the resort and she probably had a good idea of what to expect when she
attended that meeting. If Mrs G had concerns about the sale process at the time, Id expect
her to have raised that her email dated 13 January 2020 but she didnt  instead she said
she had a lovely time at the resort. I find it difficult to see why Mrs G would say this if she felt
misled about the nature of the sales meeting and/or she was pressured to make her
purchase. Based on the information Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded theres enough
evidence to reasonably find she was pressured into buying the product. And, in any event
(for the reasons set out earlier in this decision) Im satisfied she had the option to withdraw
later if she wanted to - which would likely mitigate any potential unfairness.
For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that Mrs G was made reasonably aware ofcommission paid here. I think it was open to her to make further enquiries about this if she
wanted to and Ive seen nothing to show that she did so at the relevant time. In any event,
taking into account typical rates of commission paid, I think its unlikely a court would find
this meant the relationship between Mrs G and HCCF was unfair.
Im satisfied that Mrs G was aware of the loan interest rate - the APR of over 11% is set out
fairly prominently in the loan paperwork. If a lower interest rate was particularly important to
Mrs G at the time its difficult to see why she agreed to the loan. I realise she may say this
was due to pressure to sign on the day but this seems to be contradicted by the letter of
claim which says Mrs G was also told that she could re-finance when she got back to the
UK. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mrs G tried to re-finance. I appreciate she might have
been able to get a cheaper loan elsewhere - but this wouldnt have come with the added
benefit of protection under section 75. And I think Mrs G probably accepted the HCCF loan
as part of the package offered.
Overall, thinking about Mrs Gs circumstances, CLCs actions at the time of the sale and how
the sales process took place, I consider it is unlikely a court would find there was an unfair
relationship between Mrs G and HCCF. And, for the reasons set out, Im not presently
persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider what Id said and let me have any new comments or
evidence by 28 August 2023 and Id look at everything available after that and make my final 
decision. 
Mrs G provided some video evidence initially which I was unable to access unfortunately so 
she sent us a written statement/transcript and some additional paperwork. Ive considered 
this carefully. I am sorry to hear about Mrs Gs poor health. If she is having difficulty meeting 
her financial obligations its open to her to raise this with the lender and, if shes unhappy 
with the response, she may be able to bring another complaint about that to our service.  
I realise this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs G but Im satisfied that Ive dealt 
with any material issues that she has raised in my provisional decision already - and nothing 
thats been said or sent to us has persuaded me to change my mind. For the reasons Ive 
given above, I remain of the view there arent sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that Mrs G wanted and Im sorry if she feels let down. Mrs 
G isnt obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case it remains open to her to pursue the 
matter by any other means available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman