DRN-3205182
The complaint
Mr A, Miss F and Miss G complain Great Lakes Insurance SE treated them unfairly when 
they were unable to travel home from a planned trip abroad, due to Covid-19 restrictions. 
Mr A brings this complaint on behalf of his family, so for ease, I will refer to all 
representations as having been made by Mr A. 
What happened
In summary, Mr A and his family took out a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Great Lakes. They travelled abroad to a county I will refer to as P, and were due to return 
on 25 March 2020. 
While they were away, on 22 March 2020, the government of P closed its borders and 
imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement. And on 23 March 2020, the Foreign 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised all British tourists who were 
abroad to return to the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on 
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. 
Mr A and his familys original return flights were cancelled, and they struggled to arrange 
new flights. They returned home to the UK on 4 April 2020.
During their extended stay, Mr As daughter ran out of a usual medication that she takes for 
a serious condition. Mr A contacted Great Lakes about this, and it provided information 
about local hospitals which could be used to obtain the medication. But, it said the costs of 
the medication would not be covered by the policy. 
Mr A made a claim against the policy in relation to the costs of obtaining the medication for 
his daughter, the new flights and other costs associated with the extended stay abroad. 
Great Lakes declined the claim and said that what happened wasnt covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr A brought the complaint to this service. He said he 
had paid to extended the policy beyond the original trip dates, but the claim had still been 
declined.
An investigator here looked into what had happened. And Great Lakes said it would refund 
the extra policy premium Mr A had paid to extend the cover. It said it was doing so as a 
gesture of goodwill, and wouldnt deduct its usual administration charge. 
The investigator said they didnt think the circumstances of the claim were covered, so Great 
Lakes hadnt acted unfairly. And they thought the offer to refund the extended policy 
premium, was fair, as this additional premium didnt offer any further cover, due to the 
circumstances of the claim being excluded. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view. He said he didnt accept the offer to refund the 
extended policy premium, and would like the full policy premium refunded, or for the claim to 
be paid in full. 
Great Lakes made no further comments. However as Mr A disagreed and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say insurers should act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers, 
and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a 
claim. 
Medical expenses 
Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that Great Lakes tried to help Mr A to access to the 
necessary medication for his daughter, by providing the details of local private hospitals. And 
the difficulties he had accessing these hospitals due to local lockdowns, were beyond the 
insurers control.
Great Lakes said the costs of the medication and obtaining it were not covered under the 
policy. Having reviewed the Emergency Medical and Repatriation section of the policy, I 
dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to say it wouldnt cover the costs. I say this because 
there is an exclusion for medication which was in use before the trip. Within the section 
headed What is not covered the policy says: the cost of replacing medication that you 
were using before your trip. 
I appreciate Mr As daughter ran out of her usual medication due to the unexpected, 
extended stay abroad, and that it was needed due to a serious medical condition she has. 
However, Im satisfied that there is no cover under the policy for this eventuality. So I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to ask Great Lakes to pay anything towards this.
Other costs related to the extended stay abroad, including flights
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID when reviewing this case. 
The IPID states the following. 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For 
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice 
And the policy terms provide a list of circumstances in which the cancellation and curtailment 
cover will apply. However Mr A and his familys trip wasnt cancelled or curtailed for any of 
the reasons listed within the cover. So their circumstances arent covered by the policy. 
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of the insurance policy, but I dont think Mr A and 
his family held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances that led to their 
claim. The policy includes the following exclusions. And as Ive mentioned above, this was also 
covered in the IPID. 
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2 
anything mentioned in the General Exclusions. 
General Exclusions  applying to all sections 
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of: 
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing 
body have advised against all, or all but essential travel. 
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for 
claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I think there are other 
reasons why Great Lakes could have fairly declined this claim. 
The policy also says: 
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of 
the booked trip due to Government action. 
I think Mr A and his familys claim was caused by a combination of factors, including the 
spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions both in the UK and in P. The 
trip was extended after 23 March 2020  which was when the UK government advised all UK 
tourists to return home and restrictions on movement were announced. That government 
action remained in force after Mr A and his family returned to the UK. And they were also 
impacted by government action in P at the time, as the borders were closed. 
So, not only are the reasons for the claim not covered as listed, insured events under the 
policy, I think its likely the exclusion relating to government action, which Ive quoted above, 
would apply to the circumstances of their claim in any event. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and his family, but I dont think their claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim for the costs of their flights, and the 
other costs associated with their extended stay abroad.
Extension of cover 
Great Lakes has offered to refund the amount paid to extend cover beyond the original trip 
dates. It had charged £73.90 in respect of this. As the circumstances of the claim were not 
covered, the extension offered no further benefit to Mr A and his family. So I think its fair that 
the additional premium they paid is refunded. And I note Great Lakes has said it will not 
deduct an administration fee, which I think is reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. So my final decision is that I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay 
Mr A, Miss F and Miss G £73.90, if it has not already done so. Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it the consumers accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 
8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Miss F and 
Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman