DRN-3978278
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc (SB) handled her claim for a refund of 
a purchase she made using her SB credit card.
What happened
Mrs H paid for a package travel holiday booked by her partner (Mr H) with a package holiday 
organiser (the supplier).
Mrs H says that leading up to their holiday departure date (14 March 2020) they became 
increasingly alarmed by the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and the announcements being 
made by several institutions, particularly due to their personal circumstances involving 
underlying medical conditions and health vulnerability. On the 14 March 2020 Mr H sent a 
cancellation message to the supplier and they did not board the plane. It later transpired that 
on the 16th March 2020 the supplier repatriated its customers due to the escalating situation 
at the destination.
Mrs H tried to claim a refund from SB. It raised a chargeback and considered Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). However, it did not agree to issue a refund.
Mrs H was not happy and complained about this outcome. However, SB would not alter its 
stance on the refund. It did offer her £150 in recognition of poor service she had received.
Mrs H wrote to this service stating she would prefer a full refund of the £851.88 spent on the 
package. She adds that SB delayed and mishandled her claim.
Our investigator considered the case. In summary, she concluded:
 although SB delayed and raised the chargeback outside the time limits in the rules  
it would not have been successful in any event as Mrs H cancelled the service which 
still went ahead;
 at the time of the cancellation there were no records of Covid-19 infections at the 
destination  meaning that under the terms of the suppliers contract there were no 
unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances entitling her to a refund;
 SBs offer of £150 compensation was fair and reasonable and reflected the delays in 
handling the claim in the particular circumstances.
Mrs H asked the matter to be looked into by an ombudsman.
I looked into the matter and corresponded with both parties for further information and in an 
attempt to resolve the dispute. I issued a provisional decision on this matter, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what SB should fairly do to resolve matters, I consider its specific 
obligations as a provider of financial services. SB is not a supplier of holidays so in 
considering what is fair and reasonable for it to do I have focused on the relevant card 
protections  in this case these are chargeback and Section 75.
Chargeback
Because of my findings on Section 75 (below) I do not consider it necessary to go into great 
detail regarding chargeback. However, for completeness I will deal with this briefly.
The chargeback scheme is one way which SB might have been able to recover funds for Mrs 
H. However, it is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply (in this case I understand 
the credit card is a Mastercard). I have considered the relevant chargeback scheme rules 
and any additionally published guidance to decide if SB has acted fairly here.
From what I understand SB raised the chargeback and it was defended as the service was 
available and because it was out of time. I note that SB appeared to have had enough time 
to raise the chargeback within the time limits  so what it did was not ideal. However, 
regardless of this I am not persuaded that the chargeback would likely have succeeded in 
any event. I say this because:
Mrs H would be unlikely to have a successful claim for goods and services not 
provided as at the time the holiday was cancelled by her, it was still available and 
going ahead as far as the supplier was concerned; and
The contract terms broadly do not allow for refunds if cancellation is made close to 
the trip departure date as happened here  so it is unlikely a claim for credit not 
processed would succeed either. While I acknowledge there are some arguments 
that the suppliers terms do allow for a refund in particular circumstances it is difficult 
for me to say that the card scheme operator (had the matter got to arbitration) would 
likely have decided in Mrs Hs favour in any event.
So overall, I dont think that SBs actions have likely deprived Mrs H an opportunity where 
she would likely have got her money back through the chargeback scheme.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mrs H to make a like claim against SB for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it has with her for the provision of goods or services. 
Certain criteria need to be met in order that Section 75 will apply in any given circumstance. 
This includes that Mrs H as the debtor who has the credit card agreement with SB also has 
a contractual agreement with the supplier of the holiday. I have looked at the situation here 
to see if that agreement is in place.
Mrs H has confirmed that it was Mr H who made the booking for the package holiday as the 
lead booker. This is also supported by the documentation which shows Mr H as the lead 
passenger, whose contact details are used on the booking and who corresponds with the 
supplier about the cancellation of his booking.
However, despite Mr H being the lead booker, I am satisfied that the supplier is still 
contracting with Mrs H as a named passenger on the package. Nothing in the terms clearly 
indicates otherwise and I have taken into account the implied terms under The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTRs) which give Mrs H as a 
traveller particular rights and remedies as implied into the contract with the supplier. 
I note that a traveller as defined under the PTRs includes any individual entitled to travel on 
the basis of a contract concluded within the scope of the Regulations. I have gone on to say 
why I consider the Regulations apply to this contract later on.  So overall, I am satisfied that 
Mrs H has a claim against the supplier in her own right, and therefore a like claim against 
SB under Section 75. I have therefore gone on to consider if there has been any breach of 
contract here by the supplier (misrepresentation is not something the parties have argued, 
and nor do I consider it relevant to the particular circumstances here).
In considering breach of contract, I note that neither party disputes that the service in 
question is a package holiday contract which the PTRs apply to. For clarity - I consider the 
supplier which Mrs H paid is the organiser as defined by the PTRs and which has combined 
and sold the package. As the organiser, it has particular obligations to Mrs H as a traveller 
under the package contract and these obligations implied into the contract by the PTRs.
I note there is no dispute the package was cancelled on the day Mrs and Mr H were due to 
travel. I have considered the suppliers standard booking terms to see if there is a refund due 
in these circumstances and note that in most cases there is not because of a cancellation 
fee representing 100% of the price imposed for late cancellation. 
The contract does indicate that in certain circumstances a cancellation fee will not be 
charged. I consider this section of the contract is an attempt to incorporate the implied 
provisions of Regulation 12 of the Package Travel Regulations 2018, although it is not very 
clearly set out. Therefore, I think it likely that a court would find that any implied term 
operates as per Regulation 12 rather than the way it is set out by the supplier. So I turn to 
Regulation 12 as it appears in the legislation. Regulation 12 says as follows:
12.(1) The provisions of this regulation are implied as a term in every package travel contract.
(2) A traveller may terminate the package travel contract at any time before the start of the package.
(3) Where the traveller terminates the package travel contract under paragraph (2), the traveller may 
be required to pay an appropriate and justifiable termination fee to the organiser.
(4) The package travel contract may specify reasonable standard termination fees based on
(a)the time of the termination of the contract before the start of the package; and
(b)the expected cost savings and income from alternative deployment of the travel services. 
(5) In the absence of standardised termination fees, the amount of the termination fee must 
correspond to the price of the package minus the cost savings and income from alternative 
deployment of the travel services.
(6) The organiser must provide a justification for the amount of the termination fee if the traveller 
so requests.
(7) Notwithstanding paragraphs (2) to (6), in the event of unavoidable and extraordinary 
circumstances occurring at the place of destination or its immediate vicinity and which significantly 
affect
(a)the performance of the package, or
(b)the carriage of passengers to the destination, the traveller may terminate the package travel 
contract before the start of the package without paying any termination fee.
(8) Where the package travel contract is terminated under paragraph (7), the traveller is entitled 
to a full refund of any payments made for the package but is not entitled to additional compensation.
In my view, it is clear that Regulation 12 allows Mrs H to cancel the package for a refund, but 
also allows the supplier to apply an appropriate and justifiable cancellation fee. I think that 
due to the time the cancellation was made (on the day of travel) a 100% cancellation fee is 
likely to be considered appropriate and justifiable here. In my correspondence with SB, I 
explained to it why I think Regulation 12(7) is relevant here, namely that Mrs H is entitled to refund of the package following her cancellation because of the unavoidable and 
extraordinary circumstances occurring at the place of destination.
SB has indicated that Regulation 12(7) does not apply in this scenario, in summary, because 
at the time of cancellation there were no cases of Covid-19 reported and there were no 
quarantine measures in place for travellers at the destination. It also notes that flights were 
not prevented from travelling to the destination at the time of the cancellation either.
I have engaged with both parties on this point prior to making this decision. SB has 
communicated its views on the matter in light of information that I had found and my initial 
thoughts on the application of the PTRs. I have also asked Mrs H to look at the points made 
 and in response she has provided me with more information and clarification about the 
circumstances leading up to the cancellation including highlighting particular information. I 
appreciate the dialogue with both parties to date on this matter and thank both for their 
patience while I have considered the issues.
After thinking about what the parties have said and provided, I consider it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that 12(7) does apply to the situation here and that Mrs H is entitled 
to a full refund without any cancellation fee being imposed by the supplier. I will explain my 
rationale for this.
Firstly, it is important to note that as far as I am aware (and SB has not indicated otherwise) 
there is no specific case law or guidance that concludes that for Regulation 12(7) to apply 
there needs to have been declared cases of a disease/Covid-19 at a destination or that there 
has to be flight restrictions in place. With this in mind, I dont think these points are reasons 
for saying that the Regulation definitively does not apply. While I note that 12(7)(b) does 
refer to the unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances significantly affecting carriage of 
passengers to the destination, I also note that Regulation 12(7)(a) can still apply even if (b) 
does not, where the circumstances significantly affect the performance of the package.
In considering whether Regulation 12(7) does apply here I note the following factors leading 
up to the cancellation of the booking on 14 March 2020:
1. Announcements of a global pandemic and warnings by various agencies
In my view it cannot be underestimated that shortly before the trip a global pandemic was 
announced by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The tone of the WHO 
announcements at the time underlines the severity and urgency of what had become a 
situation affecting all countries around the world. The WHO website timeline of 
announcements shows, for example:
 
7 Mar 2020
To mark the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases surpassing 100,000 globally, 
WHO issued a statement calling for action to stop, contain, control, delay and reduce 
the impact of the virus at every opportunity.
And
 
11 Mar 2020
 Deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread and severity, and by the 
alarming levels of inaction, WHO made the assessment that COVID-19 could be 
characterized as a pandemic.
 
Speaking at the COVID-19 media briefing, the Director-General highlighted how 
WHO had been in full response mode since being notified of the first cases and 
"called every day for countries to take urgent and aggressive action".
 
Recognising that COVID-19 was not just a public health crisis but one that would 
touch every sector, he restated WHO's call  made from the beginning  for countries 
to take a whole-of-government, whole-of-society approach, built around a 
comprehensive strategy to prevent infections, save lives and minimize impact.
 
Emphasising that "we cannot say this loudly enough, or clearly enough, or often 
enough", he stressed that "all countries can still change the course of this pandemic" 
if they detect, test, treat, isolate, trace, and mobilize their people in the response.
 
He stressed that the challenge for many countries who are now dealing with large 
clusters or community transmission is not whether they can do the same  its 
whether they will.
SB has said that:
the WHO has no power to make travel restrictions and is purely advisory; and 
the WHO continue to issue warnings about Covid-19 so this in itself is not an 
indicator of the impact on a holiday. 
However, I think the announcements and advice are important in establishing that the whole 
world was impacted by unprecedented, unavoidable, and quite extraordinary circumstances 
where immediate and particular action was outlined in order to attempt to mitigate the health 
dangers to the public. Mrs H has also referred to published guidance by other agencies 
which also outline the risks and precautions required particularly for those with vulnerable 
health.
It is also important to note that while the WHO or other agencies may continue to make 
warnings in regard to Covid-19 the circumstances leading up to Mrs Hs trip was very 
different to the situation now. At the time we were at the start of a global pandemic, cases 
were rapidly growing (and had already reached 100,000+) and there were no known 
vaccinations or established protective health measures in place. It was a very different 
context to where we have got to since and would likely have caused far more alarm and 
anxiety in travellers such as Mrs H and her partner. 
2. Announcements and actions by the destination country 
Mrs H has drawn to my attention the details of an announcement on the 14th March 2020 by 
the president of the government of the destination region that a mandatory quarantine would 
be introduced the following day. In the article he says that as of midnight todayeveryone is 
in isolation. I cannot wait for measures at the national level in view of the imperative to 
safeguard the public health
The quote from the head of the region indicates that the 14-day quarantine period is a form 
of deterrence for those who intend to travel there. One quote says we are going to control all the hotels and all the houses. Do not have any doubts about this.this is not a joke. This 
is not a vacation. 
Furthermore, I note that a few days before this on the 11th March 2020 the head of the region 
announced he was prohibiting the docking of all cruise ships and intensified passenger 
control upon arrival at the destination. 
I will have our investigator send these articles to SB with my provisional findings. I think they 
are highly persuasive in supporting the finding that regardless of confirmed Covid-19 cases 
or the departure of flights to the region at the time of cancellation there were clearly 
measures in place (and imminent measures that would be coming in during the holiday) as a 
result of the unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances around the global pandemic and 
which would significantly affect the performance of the package.
3. The expectations and anxiety of the consumer
It is quite clear from what Mrs H has said that the context of the cancellation is one of health 
anxiety from those announcements by the WHO and governing bodies around the 
pandemic. Leading up to their trip Mrs H and Mr H were clearly very concerned about the 
risk to health and had good reason for that due to underlying vulnerabilities in their particular 
circumstances. 
In considering this factor I have taken note of the Competition & Markets Authority (CMA) 
open letter to the package travel sector dated 13 May 2021. In particular where they discuss 
the right to a full refund under the PTRs when cancellation occurs in the context of Covid-19. 
The CMA mention FCDO guidance rather than WHO however they do state:
In particular, in the CMAs view, the mere fact that the flight is still operating, and the 
accommodation is open is not, in and of itself, a sufficient basis to deny a consumer a full 
refund. This is because the CMA considers that organisers need to take into account the 
consumers reasonable expectations of the package taken as a whole when determining 
whether a right to a full refund has arisen, including expectations as to safety, enjoyment 
and freedom from anxiety
I think it is clear in the context of the announcements made, regardless of the number of 
declared Covid-19 cases in the region Mrs H and her partner would have had extremely low 
expectations as to safety, enjoyment and freedom from anxiety going on their trip. Therefore, 
I believe this supports the case for the right to a full refund under the PTRs in the 
circumstances here.
SB has responded to state that at the time of cancellation the destination had no cases 
compared to the UK at the time which had cases. So the customer might in fact experience 
less anxiety going to the destination than staying in the UK. However, I dont think this is a 
fair or valid argument in the context of the application of Regulation 12(7) as there is no 
provision in the Regulation as to how the right to a refund free of cancellation fees is affected 
by the situation in the home country. Furthermore, I do not consider what SB has said to be 
in the spirit of the CMA guidance which is clearly referring to the reasonable expectations in 
relation to the package holiday itself rather than the expectations of said package versus 
other options such as staying at home. I also note that contrary to the comment it made 
about this SB has also indicated elsewhere that it was understandable that Mrs H chose to 
take into account published advice and not take the holiday.
summary and conclusionIn conclusion based on the circumstances leading up to and at the time of cancellation, and 
in the absence of compelling case law which says otherwise, I believe the evidence supports 
a finding that Regulation 12(7)(a) does apply here. I consider there is clear evidence of 
unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances present at the intended destination which 
would have significantly affected the performance of the package and as a result the supplier 
is in breach of contract by imposing the cancellation fee and failing to refund Mrs H what she 
paid.
In making this finding, I have also taken into account what occurred shortly after the time of 
cancellation and highlight that information SB gathered during its first review of the case (in 
which it upheld it) indicated the plane was actually turned around mid-flight. SB now refute 
this to be the case  however, I think the situation is far from clear. I also note that in any 
event there is no dispute that on the 16th of March 2020, the supplier contacted all its 
customers holidaying at the destination about evacuation and repatriation. In addition, the 
destination country implemented quarantine requirements after midnight on 14th March 2020. 
So ultimately, the fears which Mrs H and her partner had about disruption to the holiday 
were correct. In the absence of definitive case law about the interpretation of Regulation 12 
(7) in these circumstances, I consider this to be a relevant factor when determining what is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. However, I also note that even if SB were to argue that events 
following the cancellation are not to be taken into account here in the interpretation of the 
law  I still consider that events leading up to and at the time of cancellation are sufficient to 
entitle Mrs H to rely on 12(7)(a).
All things considered I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Mrs H, by way of the 
PTRs, is entitled to a full refund of what she paid for the package and that there has been a 
breach of contract by the supplier which needs to be remedied. Therefore, with Section 75 in 
mind, SB now should refund Mrs H the payment she made for the holiday (which is 
£851.98). I also think that SB should pay Mrs H out of pocket interest from the date it 
declined the claim on 20 October 2020. 
Customer service
I think there were delays in handling both the chargeback and the Section 75 claim here by 
SB. Some of which can be put down to the unprecedented circumstances around the global 
pandemic which SB is not fairly responsible for. However, with that said, I still think there are 
things it could have done better and more quickly. For example, from what I can see it 
clearly caused Mrs H distress when it told her the chargeback was raised outside of the time 
limits, when she had contacted SB in good time. There also appears to have been 
breakdowns of communication and expectations not met as to information that would be 
received and how things would be handled which also have clearly caused frustration and 
distress. 
I understand that SB has offered Mrs H £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her. All things considered (and noting that I am unable to make an award for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by her partner) I think this is fair in the circumstances. If SB has not 
paid this already then it needs to do so.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to refund Mrs H £851.98 and pay her 
8% simple yearly interest on this amount calculated from when it declined her Section 75 
claim to the date of settlement. It should also pay her £150 for distress and inconvenience if 
it has not done so already.I asked the parties for their comments. Mrs H agreed with my findings, but SB did not. In 
summary, it said:
It does not believe it can argue the breach of contract I have relied on in order for it to 
recover costs from the supplier.
While it accepts the evidence shows there were unavoidable and extraordinary 
circumstances occurring at the place of destination there is nothing to show this 
significantly affected the performance of the package.
The flights and accommodation were still available at the time the customer 
terminated the reservation and the services within the package were not affected in 
such a way that rendered them unusable or significantly affected so there was no 
entitlement for the customer to receive reimbursement.
No actual restrictive measures were legally implemented preventing the retailer from 
providing the services  so the potential effects of the pandemic were essentially 
circumstantial. Restrictions were not imposed at the destination until 22 March 2020 
as a news article it has provided shows.
There were no cases of Covid-19 recorded at the destination when the customer 
cancelled and no restrictions so their safety and freedom would not be impacted. The 
decision therefore relies on the customers enjoyment being affected which is 
subjective and unmeasurable.
Mrs H was given an opportunity to comment on what SB had said  she disagreed. In 
summary, she said:
It is clear that the flight they would have been on was either turned around or 
passengers were repatriated shortly after arrival.
SB is mistaken in saying that restrictions were not imposed at the destination until 22 
March 2020  the article it refers to only concerns the establishment of a new 
quarantine centre.
A new article has come to light showing that on 13 March 2020 the government of 
the destination announced it would cease flights from countries where there is an 
active transmission of Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their submissions which I have considered carefully. As an informal 
dispute resolution service I have not commented on every bit of evidence presented but 
focused on the matters I consider to be at the heart of this complaint. 
While SB has indicated my interpretation of the legislation is wrong it has not offered 
relevant case law, industry guidance or codes of practice to support its position. In the 
absence of this information I have considered the evidence I have in order to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. After doing so I am not persuaded to depart from 
my provisional findings (as copied above).I would like to emphasise that my findings are not purely based on enjoyment as SB has 
indicated. In considering what is a fair and reasonable I have carefully considered the 
wording of the PTRs, while factoring in the specific factual circumstances here alongside 
relevant industry guidance (such as that issued by the CMA).  
SB appears to accept that the circumstances occurring at the place of destination were 
unavoidable and extraordinary, so I do not think it necessary to focus on this. I consider this 
aspect of Regulation 12(7) is satisfied for the same reasons I have given in my provisional 
decision (as copied above).
What appears to be the remaining point of contention is whether such circumstances 
significantly affected the performance of the package. I consider that I have sufficiently dealt 
with this in my provisional decision  however, I will briefly go over some key points here in 
response to SBs latest comments. 
SB has said the package would not be significantly impacted as flights were still taking off 
and accommodation was still available  but there is nothing in the legislation which states 
the requirements of Regulation 12(7) will not be satisfied in these circumstances. 
Furthermore, as I have stated in my provisional findings the CMA guidance indicates the 
opposite:
In particular, in the CMAs view, the mere fact that the flight is still operating, and the 
accommodation is open is not, in and of itself, a sufficient basis to deny a consumer a full 
refund.
But in any event, and as I have said in my provisional decision in determining what is fair 
and reasonable it doesnt appear to have been disputed by SB previously that the supplier 
contacted Mrs H and Mr H shortly after their flight was due to land, as part of an initiative to 
repatriate its customers. In any event, if SB is now disputing this it has not offered 
persuasive evidence to the contrary. So (along with the mandatory quarantine requirements I 
have discussed elsewhere) it is evident that even if the plane was not turned around the 
planned holiday was significantly impacted in any event due to the pandemic, therefore 
satisfying Regulation 12(7).  
I also note that once again SB has referred to there being no Covid-19 cases at the 
destination at the time of cancellation. Mrs H has disputed this. But in any event, as I have 
said in my provisional decision, I do not consider there to be persuasive information to show 
that an absence of declared cases at the time of travel would prima facie prevent Mrs H from 
claiming under Regulation 12 (7). 
At the time of cancellation it was, in my view, clear that the circumstances of the pandemic 
significantly affected the performance of the upcoming package. I refer back to my 
provisional findings about the announcements leading up to when Mrs H and Mr H were due 
to travel. In particular the announcement introducing a mandatory quarantine for all travellers 
set to take place from midnight on 14th March 2020. For emphasis:
The quote from the head of the region indicates that the 14-day quarantine period is a form 
of deterrence for those who intend to travel there. One quote says we are going to control 
all the hotels and all the houses. Do not have any doubts about this.this is not a joke. This 
is not a vacation. 
SB has indicated that there were in fact no restrictions at the destination until 22 March 2020 
and has referred to an article to support this. However, I believe SB is mistaken here  as 
Mrs H has pointed out  this article indicates that a new mandatory quarantine centre has 
been established at the destination as part of existing quarantine measures already in place. It does not indicate that the restrictions I previously referred to were not already in place.  
Overall I am satisfied from the evidence available that a mandatory quarantine at the 
destination was announced on the day Mrs H was due to travel and started from midnight on 
14th March 2020. I am also persuaded that such mandatory restrictions (particularly 
considering the quote from the head of the region) significantly impacted their upcoming 
holiday dates. Moreover, as above, it appears that the package was ultimately curtailed. 
I also note Mrs H has recently referred to the media announcement on 13th March 2020 (a 
day before travel) of imminent flight restrictions to the destination due to the pandemic. I 
have seen this article and note it reinforces SBs initial finding that the plane was turned 
around in mid-air. But in any event this announcement clearly adds to the overall picture of 
measures and restrictions that were being put in place prior to the holiday commencing. 
All things considered, at the time the booking was cancelled it was already clear that the 
travel to the destination and the holiday itself would be significantly impacted by the 
circumstances around the pandemic. I think this in itself is enough to satisfy the 
requirements of Regulation 12(7) even setting aside the events which then unfolded during 
the period of the intended holiday.  
When considering whether Regulation 12(7) applies here and what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances I have also taken into account what relevant guidance from the CMA has 
said namely that organisers need to take into account the consumers reasonable 
expectations of the package taken as a whole when determining whether a right to a full 
refund has arisen, including expectations as to safety, enjoyment and freedom from anxiety. 
In doing so I still consider that regardless of the presence of Covid-19 cases, or the absence 
of cancellation of flights/accommodation there was enough information presented at the time 
by authorities including the WHO (of which I have referred to in my provisional decision) and 
the local government of the destination to create extremely low expectations around safety, 
enjoyment and freedom from anxiety on the holiday (once again noting here the health 
vulnerabilities which Mrs H has mentioned and the overall context of the unfolding pandemic 
at the time).
I have carefully thought about what SB has said  and note that its view differs from mine. 
However, in the absence of persuasive case law or other supporting information from SB 
and factoring in the CMA guidance and overall factual circumstances here I consider that my 
findings (incorporating my provisional findings as copied above) are ultimately fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained I consider Mrs H is able to rely on Regulation 12(7) of the 
PTRs and therefore the supplier is breaching its contract with her by failing to refund her in 
full. Considering the requirements of Section 75 on SB it is fair and reasonable for it to put 
said breach right in accordance with my direction below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to refund Mrs H £851.98 and pay her 
8% simple yearly interest on this amount calculated from when it declined her Section 75 
claim to the date of settlement. It should also pay her £150 for distress and inconvenience if 
it has not done so already.
If SB considers it should deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Mrs H with acertificate of tax deduction so she may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman