DRN-3923584
The complaint
Miss W complains Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Fernovo) gave her a loan she 
couldnt afford to repay because at the time she had at least seven outstanding loans. 
She also explained, she cant afford the repayments now due to the increased costs of 
living.
In order to put things right, she wants the negative information removed from her credit 
file, an affordable repayment plan to be set up and the interest removed from the 
outstanding balance.
What happened
Miss W took one loan from Fernovo. She borrowed £250, on 26 April 2022. She was due to
make a total of three-monthly repayments. The payments due on 20 May 2022 and
20 June 2022 were for £121.38 and the final payment due on 20 July 2022 was £122.65.
Had Miss W paid the loan in line with the credit agreement, she wouldve repaid a total of
£365.41.
Fernovo, at the end of December 2022, provided a copy of the statement of account. The
statement shows that Miss W successful made her repayment which was due in May 2022.
However, the June 2022 payment was declined. A final repayment has been recorded of £5
on 26 September 2022. Fernovo appears to have stopped applying interest to the 
outstanding balance from 30 September 2022. The total outstanding balance due, according 
to Fernovo is £373.62.
Following Miss Ws complaint Fernovo wrote to her with a final response letter on
9 August 2022, outlining why it wasnt going to uphold the complaint. However, it did say,
that it would be willing to remove the default interest, as a gesture of goodwill, should the
complaint but only if the complaint wasnt progressed to the Financial Ombudsman. But it 
concluded, it had made a fair lending decision, based on the information supplied to it by 
Miss W as well as the credit report.
Unhappy with this response, Miss W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our adjudicator reviewed Miss Ws complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said the checks
carried out by Fernovo were proportionate before the loan was approved and there was no 
indication the loan was unsustainable for Miss W.
Miss W didnt agree with the outcome, and she sent several emails with her reasons, and 
Ive summarised these below.
Miss W had multiple other loans open at the time this Fernovo loan was granted.
Miss W told Fernovo about her financial difficulties and it refused to set up a 
repayment plan. She doesnt think she has been treated fairly.
Miss W provided copies of the emails she had sent to Fernovo at the end of 
September 2022 outlining why she didnt think she had been treated fairly.
The adjudicator went back to Miss W to clarify his assessment.  In response, Miss W said 
Fernovo had treated her poorly.
Fernovo didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. In the provisional 
decision I explained why I thought Fernovo had made a reasonable decision to provide 
Miss W with her loan. But I though Fernovo ought to have done more after it became aware 
of Miss Ws financial difficulties. 
Both Miss W and Fernovo were asked to provide anything further for consideration, in 
response to the provisional decision, as soon as possible, but no later than 27 January 2023. 
Fernovo responded by email and confirmed it accepted the findings as outlined in the 
provisional decision. 
Miss W also responded by email, agreeing with the findings of the provisional decision. 
Both parties have now responded, so to bring this matter to a close, I am issuing the final 
decision. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fernovo had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the amount
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Fernovos checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Ws income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fernovo should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W.
Fernovo was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
Miss Ws complaint has been dealt with in two parts, firstly dealing with what happened
when the loan was issued and secondly what happened after Miss W raised her complaint
and the help and support provided by Fernovo.
Unaffordable Lending
For her loan, Fernovo asked Miss W to declare her income and expenditure. Miss W
declared her monthly income was £1,986. Fernovo says this amount was verified but hasnt
said how. But it has said, Miss W had worked for her employer for a significant period of
time, and so had no concerns about what she had declared.
Miss W then confirmed she had monthly expenditure of £1,166. However, as part of its
affordability assessment Fernovo considered Office of National Statistics (ONS) averages for
people of a similar, age, income and postcode as Miss W. As a result, it increased her
monthly expenditure to £1,630. It was this sum, that was used in deciding whether the loan
was affordable.
Fernovo, calculated Miss W had a disposable monthly income of £356, which was more than
enough for Miss W to be able to afford her repayment of no more than £122.65. Therefore,
based solely on the information Miss W declared to Fernovo, it was reasonable for Fernovo
to have concluded Miss W would be able to afford to repay this loan.
Fernovo has also said for this loan, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. It is worth saying here that although Fernovo
carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement for it to do one, let alone one
to a specific standard.
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Fernovo received may not have entirely
reflected the information Miss W may be able to view in her own credit report. There could
be several reasons for this, such as Fernovo only asking for certain pieces of information
such as the number of active credit accounts. But what Fernovo cant do is carry out a credit
search and then not react to the to the information it received.
This means, I dont think it would be right to consider the credit report Miss W has provided. I
say this because Fernovo carried out its own credit search and received the results. In that
situation I think its entirely fair and reasonable to see what Fernovo was told and whether
the information it received ought to have led it to carry out further checks. So, while I thank
Miss W for sending in her full credit file Im only considered in this case, the results of the
credit search which we know Fernovo saw.
Looking at the credit file data provided by Fernovo Im satisfied it was aware of some
adverse information. For example, it was aware that Miss W had defaulted on three
accounts between 12 and 36 months before this loan was approved. Finally, Fernovo knew
that none of Miss Ws credit accounts had entered delinquency within the year before this
loan was approved.
In my view, this isnt enough, on its own to uphold the complaint because the defaults
suggest that in the past Miss W had financial difficulties but there werent any obvious signs
that she was experiencing difficulties in the lead up to the loan being approved.The credit report provided to Fernovo also showed Miss W had some outstanding loans,
these have been recorded as Finance House  Fernovo knew of two such accounts one
having been opened within the month before this loan was approved. The total monthly
repayment due for these accounts was £136. The remaining active credit accounts seem to
be utilities, current accounts, credit cards and mail order accounts.
Fernovo also knew Miss W had opened two new accounts in the last six months preceding
this loan  I believe these to be the two finance house loans Ive mentioned above. So, it
doesnt seem, based on what Fernovo was told that Miss W was opening lots of new credit
accounts, which could be a sign of someone struggling to repay existing loans or was reliant
on payday loans.
Overall, while there are some negative indicators in Miss Ws credit check such as the
defaults but there doesnt seem to me, enough to indicate that Miss W was reliant on credit
and / or payday loans. Of course, the information Fernovo was told about may not be
correct, but it was entitled to rely on the information it was given.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship and there was also nothing else in the
information that Ive seen that wouldve led Fernovo to believe that it needed to go further
with its checks  such as verifying the information Miss W had provided. In addition, there
wasnt anything, as far as I can see which wouldve suggested the loan was unsustainable
for her.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Miss Ws complaint about Fernovos decision to provide
the loan.
Repayment of the loan
Miss W says that she asked Fernovo for help and support and none was provided. Overall,
she says she was treated unfairly by Fernovo when trying to discuss with it a way forward to
repay this loan.
Although, this part of the complaint wasnt explicitly dealt with by the adjudicator as part of
his assessment, Miss W is clearly unhappy and believes that Fernovo continued to charge
interest, fees and charges during a time when she was having difficulties, and this was
mentioned as part of her complaint submission.
This element of the complaint is explicitly linked to the irresponsible lending complaint which
Miss W has made and which I dont think should be successful. But, as part of that, Fernovo
had an obligation to treat Miss W fairly and with forbearance.
Fernovo has shown that after the scheduled June and July 2022 repayments were missed, it
emailed Miss W to tell her the account was in arrears, by how much and what she needed to
do in order to speak to Fernovo about this balance (or to correct the account balance). At
this point in time, these notices were fair and entirely reasonable for Fernovo to have sent
them.
On 1 August 2022, Miss W told Fernovo I am unable to afford all the repayment and have
not received any support other than default notification or offer to reduce monthly payments..
A further email was sent on 9 August 2022, when Miss W said the following;
I have multiple loans open at once and should have been considered on the
application. If the loan was 250 originally and you still expect me to pay 244. Then
you are charging interest I that respect as 250 less 128.38 would be a 128.62.
I have over 7 payday loan accounts open you all have leant irresponsibly at the same
time. I need a (sic) interest frozen repayment plan but for it to be what your response letter
is describing my final amountSo, Im satisfied, that as of 9 August 2022, Fernovo was put on notice, that Miss W had a
number of outstanding payday loans that needed servicing and she needed help to repay
what was outstanding with it. Bearing in mind at this point, the loan account was already in
arrears because Miss W hadnt made her June or July 2022 payment.
Miss W has provided a copy of an email received from Fernovo entitled Confirmation of
repayment plan. Unfortunately, this email is undated, so I do not know when this was sent.
However, given the date of the first proposed repayment plan and the other emails Ive seen, it
must have been sent between 9 August 2022 and 14 August 2022.
But what this does show is that Fernovo was willing to work with Miss W to set up an
affordable plan  which, at this time, was a reasonable course of action. We know from the
statement of account, that the first payment due under this plan of £50 wasnt made.
Miss W then emailed on 14 August 2022, letting Fernovo that she wasnt happy with the
repayment plan, because the amount Fernovo was asking her to repay was incorrect
because the outstanding interest and charges hadnt been removed.
Miss W reinforced her position on the 27 August 2022, when she told Fernovo
 I will make a small payment on 2nd September for 5. I can't afford all the loans out
its not possible on my income hence why I complained these have been missold
(sic). I can't afford them and living costs I can't pay money I do not have.
There were then further emails between the two parties to do with the repayment plan and
the outstanding balance that was due to be paid. On 1 September 2022, Miss W told
Fernovo:
I would like to know the reasoning for why I have to withdraw a complaint to make an
an-angement (sic) with yourselves.
I can only agree to arrangements once I've dealt with the other loans lenders which I
am still in escalated complaint to the ombudsman service currently.
 I am single parent family with one income. I have mental health difficulties and the
impact this is having on my life and health is not acceptable. To pressure a customer
to withdraw a complaint to make a fair arrangement does not sound right to me.
As far as I can see, this is the first time that Miss Ws mental health difficulties were
mentioned to Fernovo. As part of her complaint, Miss W has given the Financial
Ombudsman details of these problems and the treatment she has sought. I do hope things
have now improved for her.
However, what this email did do, is further reinforce to Fernovo that Miss W was having
financial difficulties and had other vulnerabilities that it needed to consider. It also, isnt clear
what additional help and support (if any) was given to Miss W after Fernovo was told about
her health problems.
On 6 September, Fernovo sent another email to Miss W outlining the terms of a new plan,
this time, the payments were to be £30 per month. Again, it seems this plan wasnt
successful, likely because Miss W had already told Fernovo that she could in effect only
afford token amounts.
According to the statement of account provided, Miss W will now have to repay Fernovo a
total of £500 (interest and capital). This is the maximum she couldve been charged under
the industry regulators cost cap which has been put in place for this type of product.
This is also likely, why Fernovo, according to the statement of account stopped adding
interest fees and charges after the end of September 2022, because if it had continued to
charge interest, it wouldve been in breach of the relevant cost cap guidance.In order to see whether this extra interest was fairly charged, I have also considered the
industry guidance and Id have expected Fernovo to follow the guidance when treating a
customer with forbearance. The relevant section is CONC 7.3.4 at the time of these loans
says:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and
due consideration.
CONC then goes on to provide some examples of what treating a customer with forbearance
may look like. CONC 7.3.5 says:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one
or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further
interest or charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of
financial difficulties and is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or
is only able to make token repayments, where in either case the level of
debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's
repayments to an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments
unreasonably excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow
a customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a
customer who demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts
would mean not being able to meet the customer's priority debts or other
essential living expenses (such as in relation to a mortgage, rent, council
tax, food bills and utility bills).
It does seem that Fernovo was on notice, fairly early on that Miss W would need a
repayment plan to assist her repaying the balance. It does seem initially that plans were
offered, but by the end of August 2022, Fernovo knew that in effect Miss W could only afford
token repayments.
I am also not clear, why given what it knew about Miss Ws financial position, that it
continued to charge interest to the point where Miss Ws balance went up to the cost cap
limit.
Initially, Fernovo was unaware that Miss W was having difficulties repaying her loan. I accept
that two payments had been missed, but I dont think that means, it had to automatically
prevent further charges and interest being applied, as it hadnt had any contact from Miss W.
It wasnt until the end of August 2022 that Miss W told Fernovo about the extent of the
difficulties she was having, and it was clear given the emails that Fernovo was willing
to work with and agree a repayment plan with Miss W  which is in my view a reasonable
course of action to take.
While Fernovo, fairly in its view, provided Miss W with a loan that needed to be repaid, it
had to do so in a manner that was treating Miss W fairly. And the guidance is quite clear
that Fernovo needs to take steps to help Miss W and as part of that, I think its fair that the
interest, fees and charges be frozen.
In summary, Fernovo wasnt fully aware of Miss Ws financial problems until after the loan
was already due to have been repaid. And over the course of August 2022, further
information was given to it about Miss Ws position.Having thought about what CONC says about the requirement to treat Miss W fairly and with
forbearance I dont consider the extra interest to be fair or in any way helpful to Miss W  the
extra charges have increased her overall indebtedness during a time of financial hardship.
So, I think that Fernovo ought to have fairly stopped any new interest being added to the
balance from 27 August 2022.
Im intending to partly uphold Miss Ws complaint about this element of it and Ive outlined below what 
Fernovo needs to do in order to put things right for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Fernovo and Miss W agreed with the provisional decision, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons and I dont think Fernovo made an error 
when it granted the loan because it carried out proportionate checks which demonstrated 
Miss W would likely be able to afford the loan repayments. 
However, for the reasons outlined in the provisional decision, I do think Fernovo ought to 
have done more once it became aware of the extent of Miss Ws financial difficulties  which 
ought to have included stopping any further, interest fees and charges from being added to 
the account from 27 August 2022. So, I am upholding this element of Miss Ws complaint. 
Ive outlined below, what Fernovo needs to do in order to put things right for Miss W. 
Putting things right
As both parties accepted the findings of the provisional decision, I wasnt provided with any 
information about whether a default has or hasnt not been applied. 
As part of putting things right, if a default has been added to Miss Ws credit file then it
should be removed. But Fernovo is entitled to record on the credit file the fact that Miss W 
missed payments in June and July 2022. However, from August 2022, it ought to record that 
a payment arrangement has been in place.
But, what Miss W does need to aware off, is that if she agrees a new plan and doesnt stick
to it, it may not be unreasonable for Fernovo to take any action it deems necessary  which
may or may not include re-reporting the default subject to relevant notification being
provided. But to be clear, I am making no finding on whether any possible future default
would be fair.
If a default hasnt yet been applied, then it shouldnt be recorded (at least at this time) and
the adverse information updated to reflect the fact that payments were missed but then 
Miss W was on a payment plan.
In order to put things right Fernovo should do the following:
Rework the outstanding balance on the loan account as if interest, fees and charges 
had been stopped from 27 August 2022.
A new balance should then be re-calculated taking account of any payments Miss W 
has made.
If an outstanding balance remains Fernovo and Miss W should try and come to a
mutually agreeable repayment plan to repay what is owed.Finally, I would remind Fernovo of its regulatory obligation to treat Miss W fairly and with 
forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding 
Miss Ws complaint in part.
Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo should put things right for Miss W as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman