DRN-1808157
Complaint
Miss O says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.              
Background
This complaint is about thirteen high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Lending 
Stream provided to Miss O between September 2017 and April 2018. Our adjudicator 
partially upheld Miss Os complaint and thought she shouldnt have been provided with loans 
6 to 13. Lending Stream didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss O could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Miss O, I think that 
Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that Miss O was unlikely to have been able to 
make her payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided Miss O with loan 6. I say this because by this stage Lending Stream would have been aware that Miss O hadnt 
repaid any of her existing loans. This pattern was indicative of a borrower in financial 
difficulty rather than someone who was borrowing to cover a short-term need. Lending 
Stream continued providing further loans to Miss O in similar circumstances going forwards. 
So Lending Stream continued lending to Miss O in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. Miss O had to 
pay interest and charges on loans Lending Stream shouldnt have provided her with. So I 
think that she lost out and Lending Stream should put things right.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss O paid on loans 6 to 10;
 
remove all interest and charges applied to loans 11 to 13 from the outset. Any 
payments Miss O made, either to Lending Stream or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance. In other words, Miss O shouldnt 
pay any more than the amount she was initially provided with on each loan. If the 
payments Miss O made are enough to have cleared the balance on an individual 
account then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to her;  
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges (and any 
overpayments if there were any) from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
 
remove any adverse information recorded about loan 6 to 10 from Miss Os credit file;
 
if, after all adjustments have been made outstanding balances remain on any of 
loans 11, 12 or 13, Lending Stream can deduct these from what it now needs to pay 
Miss O as long as it owns, or buys back any debt. It shouldnt make any deduction for 
any debt that it doesnt own or buy back.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Os complaint Gain Credit LLC 
should pay Miss O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman