DRN-3878304
The complaint
Ms H says Loans 2 Go Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Ms H took out from Loans 2 Go. A summary 
of her borrowing follows. Loan 3 was a top up loan for loan 2 and was used in part to settle 
it. 
loan taken out repaidvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £
1 15/06/2021 31/08/2021 250 18 51.39
2 13/12/2021 23/05/2022 500 18 102.78
3 22/05/2022 - 730.99 18 150.26
Loans 2 Go rejected Ms Hs complaint saying it had lent responsibly, but as a gesture of 
goodwill it offered to waive all the interest on loan 3. Ms H rejected this offer and brought her 
complaint to this service.
Ms H says Loans 2 Go did not look into her credit history - she had a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) and a serious debt and gambling problem. The lender gave her top up loan 
after top up loan, and was always emailing her to lend more. She wants a refund with 
interest, an apology and any negative markers removed from her credit file.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Hs complaint in part and thought Loans 2 Go shouldnt have 
given loan 3 to Ms H. Loans 2 Go disagreed, saying Ms H had sufficient disposable income 
to be able to afford the repayments for loan 3. It asked for an ombudsmans review, and so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Ms H wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Ms Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms H. In practice this
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Ms H undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough 
for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Ms H at the time of each loan. It asked for her monthly income, expenses and 
employment status. It completed an income verification check with a third-party and checked 
her living costs against national averages. As a result, for each loan it reduced her declared 
income slightly and increased her declared expenses. It carried out a credit check to 
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. I cant see it asked about the 
purpose of the loans. Based on these checks Loans 2 Go concluded the loans would be 
affordable for Ms H.
Loans 1 and 2
I think these checks were proportionate given the value of the loans and their monthly 
payments relative to Ms Hs income. And I think the lender made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.The credit checks Loans 2 Go completed showed Ms H had debt of £500 (an overdraft) at 
the time of loan 1 and no debt at the time of loan 2. So it had no reason to think she was 
over indebted. There was some adverse data on her file, including a CCJ as she says, but 
none of it was recent and I dont think it would have been fair to decline her application solely 
based on this historical data given she was showing no reliance on credit at the time. And 
the affordability checks for both loans 1 and 2 showed Ms H would have enough disposable 
income to sustainably repay the loans. Ms H says she had serious debt and gambling 
problems. And I accept this may have been the case, but it wasnt formal debt that showed 
on her credit file, and given the value of the loans I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Loans 2 Go to carry out the depth of checks needed to discover the 
financial instability she describes. 
It follows I dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to Ms H.
Loan 3
I am not wholly persuaded Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate at this stage given a 
pattern of repeat borrowing, with increasing loan values, was emerging. But I wont comment 
further on this as even with the information it gathered, I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair 
lending decision. I say this because Loans 2 Gos checks showed Ms H had a verified 
minimum income of £1,525.10 and expenses of £1,321.50. So after taking on this loan she 
would left with be just over £60 a month. I think Loans 2 Go ought to have realised this 
meant there was a high risk she would not be able to make her repayments sustainably  so 
without suffering some adverse financial consequences.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 3 to Ms H. 
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right for loan 3
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms H to repay the capital amount that she borrowed,
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should
not have been provided to her so Loans 2 Go needs to put that right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Ms H 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Ms Hs loan account results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance the lender must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms H.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Hs complaint in part. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman