DRN-3650272
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to complete the transfer of 
his ISA holdings to them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclays has acknowledged that they didnt complete the transfer of Mr Ts ISA 
quickly enough and that they are at fault. They have confirmed that it should have 
been done within 15 working days, as per FCA guidance. I think both parties are in 
agreement with this and I agree this would have been a reasonable timescale. 
Mr T has said that the delay meant he lost out on a return from an investment 
opportunity as the shares were going to be invested into a third-party companys 
shares. 
However, I havent seen enough to conclude that this is what Mr T would have done 
once the transfer was completed. I appreciate he has been consistent that there was 
an investment opportunity he missed out on. I also acknowledge that he has told us 
that there is a call he had with the business where he was told he would be able to 
state at a later point what loss he had suffered by the delay. 
However, we use a benchmark in situations where we dont have enough to say its 
more likely than not that a consumer would have invested in a certain way. I believe 
that to be the case here. I havent seen anything from the time of transfer or when the 
complaint was initially brought to us which mentioned the third-party company. I think 
it is fair to use a benchmark to calculate the redress owed to Mr T.
 I have checked the calculation of redress and the benchmark and dates used and I 
am satisfied that Barclays has calculated it correctly and fairly. I also think that the 
offer of £400 compensation for the delay, is fair considering the impact this had on  
Mr T.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ts frustration, I think the offer made by 
Barclays to put things rights for Mr T, was a fair one.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC have offered to pay Mr T £3,262.37 for the delays in completing his 
ISA transfer. They have also offered £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
that this delay had. Considering the circumstances, I think this offer is fair and Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should pay this to Mr T, if they havent already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer made my Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. If they havent already done so, they should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman