DRN-3586249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the handling of a storm damage claim by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) under their home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs Rs roof was damaged during a storm. This also resulted in 
some damage internally. They made a claim to RSA and it appointed a surveyor to assess 
the damage.
The claim was accepted in part and a cash settlement was offered for £383.48. Mr and Mrs 
R didnt accept this offer. RSA confirmed it would reconsider if Mr and Mrs R were able to 
provide quotes for the work. A quote was provided for £1,100 but this wasnt detailed enough 
for RSA to validate the work or the cost. Further information was provided but again this 
wasnt sufficiently detailed. RSA says it didnt receive further contact from Mr and Mrs R until 
May 2021.
RSA says its surveyor contacted the contractor that supplied Mr and Mrs Rs quote. Based 
on the information obtained it increased its settlement offer to £1,257.35. They rejected this 
offer and asked that RSAs own contractors complete the work. RSA arranged for its 
contractor to assess the repairs. It says given the low value of the claim it wouldnt usually 
arrange for this but agreed to on a goodwill basis. 
RSAs contractor found the roof was in a poor state of repair and required a full replacement. 
It couldnt guarantee its work if only a partial repair was undertaken so it declined to do this. 
In the circumstances RSA says its only option was to provide a settlement payment for the 
amount previously advised. It says repairs couldnt be completed due to wear and tear 
damage to the roof, which is excluded under the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair and referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He says the evidence supports the roof was in a 
poor state of repair, which meant partial repairs couldnt be carried out by RSAs contractor, 
as it couldnt guarantee the work. He thought the settlement offer was fair, as RSA had since 
identified that it shouldve declined the claim because of the poor condition of the roof.
Mr and Mrs R say they are left with internal damage to their home and have had to pay over 
£5,000 to replace their roof. They dont think RSA treated them fairly and so asked for an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint 
them but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for the policyholder to show that they have suffered an insured loss. If they can do this 
then the insurer should, generally speaking, pay the cost of the claim unless it can 
reasonably rely on a valid policy exclusion. 
When considering a claim for storm damage we consider three factors. The first is whether 
storm conditions were experienced around the time the damage occurred. RSA doesnt 
dispute storm conditions were experienced. It initially accepted that the cause for the claim 
would be accepted as storm. So in neednt consider this point further.  
The second factor I need to consider is whether the damage caused is something that would 
typically occur during a storm. I think roof tiles having blown off and slipped as a result of 
high winds, is something that is typically caused by a storm. 
The final factor is whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Based on 
the surveyors report I have seen Mr and Mrs Rs roof was in a poor condition prior to the 
storm. The surveyor reports that lead that has come away from the roof and is offering no 
protection; tiles have perished across the whole roof; there are cracked and broken tiles; and 
there are hairline cracks on most tiles. The surveyor summarises the condition of the roof as 
being in a really bad state and close to a complete fail.   
The policy terms set out the following exclusion under the section entitled General 
Conditions and Exclusions: 
No cover is provided for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually.
In its final response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint dated in December 2021, RSA says the 
insured work couldnt be completed due to the condition of the roof. And that the deteriorated 
condition was the result of wear and tear, which is not an insured cause.
RSA more recently told our service that had the true condition of the roof been established 
earlier Mr and Mrs Rs claim wouldve been rejected in its entirety. It says that they have 
benefitted from a significant contribution to their replacement roof, which isnt something 
their policy covers. 
Having considered the above I dont think its been shown by Mr and Mrs R that storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage to their roof. Having read the surveyors 
report, examined the photos provided and read the response from RSAs contractor  I think 
its view that the roof was in a poor condition is fair, and that this was the underlying reason 
that the damage occurred. 
A well-maintained roof in good condition should be able to withstand storm conditions. I think 
the evidence shows Mr and Mrs Rs roof was in a poor condition and toward the end of its 
useful life. The storm conditions acted to highlight the pre-existing poor condition of the roof.  
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs comments that it has taken a long time to reach this point. 
Ive thought about whether RSA treated them fairly in this respect. Based on the contact 
notes provide, RSA asked Mr and Mrs R for more detailed information when they didnt 
agree to the settlement payment offered. They werent able to obtain the detail requested 
from their contractor. RSA subsequently contacted their contractor directly. It then increased 
its offer based on the information provided. RSA says it couldve arranged this contact 
sooner. I think this is fair comment. But I dont think its been shown that RSAs approach to 
validating the work and costs involved was unreasonable. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs point that RSA instructed its own contactor to carry out the 
repairs to the roof. And they think the contractor shouldve completed the work as agreed. 
But its clear that prior to carrying out the work the condition of the roof was assessed and 
found to be in a very poor state. I dont think it was unreasonable for the contractor not to 
carry out the repairs given the view that the whole roof needed replacing. In these 
circumstances it was explained that partial repairs couldnt be guaranteed. 
Having considered all of this I think the poor condition of the roof shouldve been clearly 
explained at an earlier juncture when the claim was first assessed. Mr and Mrs R should 
have been made aware that their claim wasnt covered due to the wear and tear exclusion 
under their policy terms.  
I think the claim couldve been handled more effectively. But Mr and Mrs R did receive a 
significant payment from RSA despite the policy not providing cover. In the circumstances I 
think this adequately acknowledges this point. 
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs Rs roof needed replacing and that this has cost them a significant 
amount of money to put right. In summary I dont think RSA treated Mr and Mrs R fairly when 
failing to effectively identify the cause of the damage to their roof. But it has provided a 
settlement payment despite the claim being excluded under the policy terms for damage due 
to wear and tear. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman