DRN-3845642
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how Starling Bank Limited (Starling) handled a payment they 
suspected she made as part of a scam.
What happened
On 5 November 2021, Ms C attempted to make a bank transfer of £3,000 to a friend (who Ill 
refer to as P) who lives overseas. The payment was being made via a money remittance 
service.
Starling say the payment triggered as unusual activity on Ms Cs account. As a result, they 
put the payment on hold and contacted Ms C to find out more information about the purpose 
of the payment. 
As part of their first call with Ms C, Starling was given the following information about the 
payment:
It was being made to a friend (P) who lives in another part of the world. 
Ms C had initially met P on a holiday around five or six years prior, when they were 
both on the same holiday tour.  
They chat every now and then using Whatsapp and it was regular but with no set 
frequency.
They had made plans for Ms C to visit P the prior Christmas (2020), but Ms C hadnt 
been able to go. Ms C hoped to go for Christmas 2021, but it was unclear if she 
would be able to.
P wasnt someone Ms C regularly sends money to, but she was going to send a 
further payment a few days later, of just under £3,000.
The money was a gift or a loan (Ms C provided both as the reason for the payment), 
but she expected it to be repaid at some stage. P is an artist and would be showing 
her work and Ms C thought the funds would help with that. But, it was really just to 
help P as she had a lot of money stolen from her a couple of years prior.
P didnt ask for this money, Ms C just offered it.
Ms C explained to Starling that she wanted to help P out financially in the shorter term and 
was happy to do so - saying she wasnt under any pressure to make the payment.
Starling also asked why Ms C had transferred money from an account held at another bank, 
into her Starling account, before transferring it on to P  rather than just sending the funds 
directly from the other bank account. Ms C explained that Starling was her day-to-day 
account and that she held the other bank account because she could go into one of their 
branches to deposit cheques.
At the end of the call Starling told Ms C they needed to make further checks before they 
would release the payment, saying they would contact Ms C with an update  which 
hopefully would be later that day. Ms C highlighted to Starling that she needed the funds to 
go the same day, to secure the exchange rate. She explained that if the payment wasnt 
released that day (being a Friday), the money remittance service wouldnt forward the funds 
until the following Monday and at that days exchange rate.
As a result of the information Ms C gave them during the call, Starling were concerned that 
she may be making the payment as the result of a scam. So, they initiated the Banking 
Protocol asking the police to visit Ms C. They also restricted Ms Cs account so she couldnt 
make any withdrawals or transfers until they were satisfied that she wasnt the victim of a 
scam.
Starling chased the police for an update about their meeting with Ms C, but the police didnt 
respond until 6 December 2021. Based on the polices response, Starling were satisfied that 
Ms C wasnt the victim of a scam and removed the restriction from her account that day.
Ms C was unhappy with Starlings handling of the situation, including; their assumption that 
she was the victim of a scam, her inability to talk to anyone about the restriction placed on 
her account and the repeated assurances that someone would call her back  when no one 
did. So, Ms C raised a complaint with Starling.
Starling considered the points Ms C had raised and partially upheld her complaint. They told 
Ms C they had a responsibility to keep her money safe and had rejected her payment due to 
the risk they attached to it. They said it was usual practice to restrict an account while their 
investigation was happening and that it was in line with their terms and conditions. But, they 
agreed that the level of service Ms C received fell short of their usual standards, saying they 
shouldve responded to her queries and messages in a more timely manner.
As Ms C was dissatisfied with Starlings response, she brought a complaint to our service. 
Ms C told us Starling shouldve apologised and paid compensation once they realised she 
wasnt making the payment as part of a scam. 
An investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint and recommended that Starling pay Ms C £150 
in compensation. They agreed that Starling shouldve called Ms C as agreed, and failure to 
do so had caused her distress and worry.  However, the investigator felt Starling had acted 
reasonably in contacting the police based on their concern that Ms C mayve been at risk of 
financial harm. Also, it wasnt unreasonable that Starling stopped the payment and restricted 
Ms Cs account until theyd received assurance from the police that Ms C wasnt at risk. 
Ms C responded to the investigators view saying she agreed with the £150 compensation in 
relation to the missed call backs. But she disagreed with the overall outcome, raising the 
following points:
She doesnt agree that Starling ought to have flagged this payment as unusual 
activity. 
She doesnt agree there were signs of a scam in the information she gave to them  
saying she had met P in person and had been in regular contact for a few years. 
Starling was wrong to not allow her to make transfers from her account during the 
time they were investigating their concerns.
Starling asked nosey and intrusive questions about her relationship with P and 
misjudged the situation.The police turning up at her home in the dark and completely unexpectedly caused 
her extreme distress.
Staff at Starling werent honest with her, and the fraud team accused her of being 
part of a romance scam, which caused distress.
When it became clear there was no scam, instead of apologizing and offering 
compensation Starling suggested she contact our service.
Starlings processes and procedures are more important to them than their 
customers.
As Ms C didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Starling act reasonably in reaction to Ms Cs payment request?
When Ms C made the payment of £3,000, it triggered with Starling as being unusual activity 
on her account. Based on the amount of the payment and Ms Cs previous account activity  
I dont think that was unreasonable. And, where Starling identifies a payment as unusual or 
out of character, I would expect them to take steps to ensure the customer isnt at potential 
risk of financial harm. In this case, Starling called Ms C and asked her questions to clarify 
the purpose of the payment and to try and identify if Ms C may be making the payment after 
falling victim to a scam.
Ms C says she clearly wasnt the victim of a scam  especially not a romance scam as 
implied by Starling. But, based on the answers that Ms C gave Starling, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to assume Ms C mayve been the victim of a scam. I say this 
because often fraudsters will befriend someone and build a relationship over a period of time 
before asking them for money. They can also ask for payments to be split into smaller 
amounts to prevent them triggering banks fraud detection systems. And will often give an 
emotive reason for needing the money, for example; ill health of a family member, theft, 
threats to their person or due to an emergency. Also, fraudsters often coach victims on what 
to tell the bank, to get a payment released or prevent it from being stopped.
It was unclear how the agreement for Ms C to send money came about. Ms C said that P 
didnt ask for it, she had just offered it. But there must have been some conversation to 
initiate Ms C offering money to P  and this wasnt clear in her conversation with Starling. I 
know Ms C referred to P being an artist and the money helping her with a show of her 
artwork. But, combined with the information that it couldve been a loan or a gift, I can see 
why Starling had doubts.  Also, while Ms C had met P in person initially, she hadnt seen her 
in person again  although I accept that mayve been due to Covid restrictions. As well, Ms 
C was sending an initial payment, with a second payment being made a few days later. 
Added to that, Ms C referred to P having lost money as part of a theft a few years prior.
Overall, Im satisfied that the answers Ms C gave Starling were sufficiently close to what they 
might see in the case of a scam victim, that they had a reasonable basis on which to have 
concerns and stop the payment until they were satisfied that Ms C wasnt at the risk of 
financial harm. 
I appreciate that Starling restricting Ms Cs account inconvenienced her. However, scam 
victims are often so under the spell of the scammer that if the bank stops the payment, theyll transfer the money to another bank to try and make the payment anyway. So, by 
restricting Ms Cs account Starling were trying to prevent her from potentially losing her 
money by transferring it elsewhere so she could still send it to P.
In this case Starling called the police and asked them to contact Ms C and check if she had 
been the victim of a scam. I appreciate that Ms C may see that as an extreme action to take, 
and that it is likely to have been concerning to have the police turn up at her home 
unexpectedly. However, Starling dont have traditional high street stores and operate online, 
so couldnt arrange for Ms C to talk to their staff face-to-face to allay their concerns  so I 
dont think it was unreasonable that they took this action in the circumstances.
Also, I realise that it took four weeks for the police to provide Starling with an update, which 
delayed the restrictions being lifted from Ms Cs account. But Starling did chase the police 
for an update. And I dont think it was unreasonable that they waited for their response 
before unrestricting Ms Cs account.
So, while I appreciate that Ms C mayve been inconvenienced and upset by Starling being 
concerned she might be the victim of a scam when she wasnt, and by them taking steps to 
prevent her accessing funds in her account while they investigated their concerns  Im 
satisfied that the actions Starling took were reasonable in these circumstances. And I cant 
fairly make an award against them on that basis.
The level of customer service Ms C received from Starling
Although I think Starling took reasonable steps in trying to protect Ms C and her funds, I 
think they fell short in the service they provided in relation to promised call backs to Ms C.
Ive listened to the calls Ms C had with Starling, and its clear that she received several 
promises of call backs that didnt happen. Ms C was even asked for times when she would 
be available for a call, but a call still didnt happen. Most of these happened on the day that 
Ms Cs payment was stopped, and before she knew why the payment had been stopped or 
whether it would be released. So Ms C was already concerned about why the payment was 
stopped and this inability to talk to the relevant staff added to her distress.
I appreciate that Ms C feels Starling shouldve apologised to her and offered her 
compensation when she first raised her concerns with them. She also feels Starling referred 
her to our service unnecessarily and as a way to deny any responsibility. However, I cant 
make an award based on Starling not offering her an apology or compensation after 
reviewing her complaint. Our service is here to provide an informal mediation service where 
customers dont agree with a business response to concerns theyve raised, and we dont 
make awards because the business reached a different outcome than we ultimately do.
I also cant fairly make an award against Starling because the police visited Ms C in the dark 
and unannounced, even though she says it caused her extreme distress. Because Im 
satisfied that Starling acted reasonably in making the referral to the police in the first place.
I understand that Ms C wants substantial compensation for the distress she says Starling 
caused her, but Im not satisfied that Starling acted unreasonably other than in relation to the 
missed call backs. On that basis, I think Starling should pay Ms C £150 in compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right Starling Bank Limited should pay Ms C £150 in compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and require 
them to compensate Ms C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman