DRN-3113308
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint alleges a number of wrongdoings which, he says, IG Markets Limited (IG) 
is responsible for. He says:
He had a holding of Dr. Pepper/Snapple shares in his execution only IG trading 
account; in 2018 Dr. Pepper was taken over by Keurig Green Mountain and in July 
2018, after completion of the takeover, his holding was rebooked accordingly; this 
event also included his receipt of a special dividend for which he incurred US 
Withholding Tax (USWT); IG failed to give him prior notice of this event (as a 
corporate event), had it done so he would have liquidated the holding prior to the 
takeover and avoided the USWT; IG is liable to compensate him for the USWT he 
incurred. [issue 1]
IG victimised him, as a whistle-blower, by suspending his account on 11 December 
2018 because he had complained about its service. IG should compensate him for 
the victimisation and for the trouble and upset he faced from it (and from having to 
find a new broker). IG should compensate him for the mixed messages presented to 
him whereby one official misled him to believe he was valued as a customer and then 
another official affirmed termination of his account. IG should also compensate him 
for lost trading opportunity (and lost gains within the lost trading opportunity), related 
to Carnival Plc shares he sought to buy with part of the cash balance in his account 
but was prevented from buying  he gave IG notice of this on 18 December 2018. 
[issue 2]
IG failed to execute his instruction, on 14 December 2018, to transfer into his account 
his CME Group shareholding. As a result, he thereafter received dividend cheques 
denominated in USD which he considers to be of low value. IG should compensate 
him in the amount of £10, for the loss of dividend value. [issue 3]
Following termination of his IG account and his move to a new broker, IG failed to 
execute his instructions, in February 2019, to transfer out his Thomson Reuters 
holding in specie; to check that his new broker could receive them in specie; and, in 
the alternative, to liquidate the holding and transfer the proceeds only if the new 
broker could not receive it in specie. IG liquidated the holding and transferred the 
proceeds without first verifying whether (or not) the new firm could receive the 
holding in specie. The new firm could, so he has lost growth that the holding could 
have had since its liquidation and IG should compensate him for this. [issue 4]
What happened
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) for the complaint on 16 September 2021, and I 
provisionally found as follows  
Issue 1
The CA for Mr Ks account made clear the nature and terms of the execution only service 
within the account. To his credit, Mr K does not argue or suggest that he expected any other 
type of service and he has made comments confirming he understood what the execution 
only service meant in practice. 
Section 2 (4) of the CA confirms that IG had no obligation to monitor instruments held by 
account holders and that it may, at its discretion, provide factual market information but it 
was not obliged to do so. Section 15 (14) of the CA confirms that account holders, like Mr K 
was, retained responsibility to read all notices posted on its website/platform. In terms of 
corporate events, section 11 (9) defines such an event as one that brings about a change to 
the instruments held and it confirms that IG would use reasonable efforts to contact 
account holders about such events but that  there may be situations where it is 
impractical to do so.
The takeover of Dr. Pepper/Snapple had the direct effect of changing the Dr. 
Pepper/Snapple shares held by Mr K. The takeover changed the shares name and identity, 
by virtue of the takeover (with an inherent merger or quasi merger effect) the corporate entity 
attached to the shares also changed, and the event triggered the special dividend payment 
that was made  in addition to the effect that special dividend had on its market share price. 
Overall, and for these reasons, I am satisfied that the takeover was an event that met IGs 
CAs definition of a corporate event.
I also consider that IG should have contacted Mr K about the takeover event. I have reached 
this conclusion provisionally and in the absence of evidence that it was impractical for it to 
have done so or that it would have required unreasonable effort to do so. These are the 
exceptions permitted in the CA and I have not seen evidence that either applied. If, in 
response to this provisional decision, IG presents such evidence my conclusion might 
change. Otherwise, I consider that IGs failure to contact Mr K in this respect amounted to a 
service failure, for which he should receive an award for the trouble and upset it caused. I 
address the matter of trouble and upset separately below.
Distinct from trouble and upset caused by such a service failure, is Mr Ks claim of a financial 
loss arising from that failure. I have noted his arguments about this, including about the 
strategy he would have applied to avoid USWT and mitigate CGT. However, I do not 
consider it necessary to address the merits (or otherwise) of that strategy, because I find that 
primary responsibility for issue 1 rests with him. In other words, even though IG should have 
given him notice of the corporate event, primarily he should have known about that event 
through his monitoring of the holding.
As stated above, Mr K held an execution only account, the service within which he 
understood. He was required to take sole responsibility for monitoring his account (and the 
trading and holdings within it) and to keep himself informed and up-to-date on notices on 
IGs website/platform. Evidence suggests that prior notice about the Dr. Pepper/Snapple 
takeover was available on the platform. Furthermore, a perusal of information available in 
the public domain and in the media, from early 2018, confirms that the same prior 
notice/information was available publicly.
With a holding in Dr. Pepper/Snapple stock, within an execution only trading account, it is 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K ought to have been monitoring the stock. I consider it 
implausible that he would or could not have learnt about the impending takeover through 
IGs platform  which he was supposed to be monitoring for notices  and/or through the 
media (and especially the financial media). His responsibility in this respect is not diluted or 
negated by IGs failure to give him prior notice of the same. I consider that his responsibility 
was/is greater than IGs failure, and that his omission of that responsibility was/is the main 
reason why he was uninformed about the takeover.Mr K is responsible for the situation he found himself in within issue 1, so it follows that IG 
cannot reasonably be liable for the financial loss (USWT liability) he claims. 
Issues 2 and 3
IGs communications with Mr K of 11 and 20 December 2018 relate to the suspension and 
then termination of his account. IG essentially considered that there had been a breakdown 
in its relationship with him and it considered that it would be in their mutual interest to 
conclude the relationship. 
Section 25 of the CA permitted IG to suspend accounts at any time and section 26 permitted 
it to terminate accounts with 30 days written notice  given evidence of Mr K still winding 
down closure of the account in February 2019 (with regards to transferring out his Thomson 
Reuters holding) it would appear that, in practice, he was granted more than 30 days after 
the written notice of 20 December. Neither step required reasons. The sum of both meant 
the relevant account could no longer be used to open new buy or sell positions  other than 
the sale/closure of pre-existing positions  and could no longer be used for inward transfers.
I understand Mr Ks reference to whistleblowing and I understand how he could have 
conceived his claim about it, but I am not persuaded that whistleblowing and/or the 
victimisation he claims has been established. There is no evidence of Mr K disclosing illegal, 
unsafe, illicit or other comparable misconduct by IG which amounted to the whistleblowing 
he claims. He made a number of complaints about his account (and about events related to 
his account), but none appear to feature such alleged misconduct by IG.
A breakdown in relationship can be a potentially legitimate reason to terminate a customers 
trading account. Mr K would have preferred to retain his IG account, which suggests that he 
did not consider the relationship broken. However, it was not beyond the realms of 
reasonableness for IG to take the contrasting view that the succession of complaints from 
him indicated that its relationship with him was not working and that the relationship should 
be terminated. 
It is not necessary for me to find that the relationship was broken, and I do not (as I also do 
not find that it was not broken). Such a finding, either way, is not important. It is enough to 
find, based on the facts, that IG was not unreasonable in perceiving that the relationship was 
broken and in terminating Mr Ks account for that reason. This finding is arguably surplus, 
given than IG did not need a reason to terminate the account, but I have addressed it to 
illustrate that the termination Mr K viewed as victimisation for his complaints was viewed, by 
IG, as a reasonable response to a problematic business/customer relationship. It might also 
be said that termination of the account in December 2018 possibly achieved an avoidance of 
future problems between both parties.
I agree with the previous views that there is no merit in Mr Ks claim that he was misled by 
mixed messages from IG. The main evidence he relies upon is an email from IG in 
December 2018 in which it thanked him for his interest in continuing to be an IG client, it said 
it valued loyal customers and it said it would investigate his dissatisfaction with the 
suspension. It appears that Mr K viewed this as an indication that IG would review and 
reverse the suspension. He considers that he was misled by this. However, on balance, I am 
not persuaded that the email gave him reason for such a view. In the email, IG 
acknowledged that he wanted to continue being its client, it made a generic statement about 
valuing loyal customers and it promised to investigate his dissatisfaction. None of this said, 
or misled him to believe, that the suspension would be reversed. 
From 11 December 2018 Mr Ks account was suspended and termination was confirmed just 
over a week thereafter. From the former, and re-affirmed by the latter, IG was not obliged to allow him to place new trades in the account  except for closing pre-existing trades  and it 
was not obliged to permit transfers into the account. Mr K was no longer entitled to do either. 
It follows therefore that IG was not obliged to facilitate the Carnival Plc shares he wanted to 
buy after the suspension (and shortly before the termination); and IG was not obliged to 
facilitate the inward transfer of the CME Group shares he asked for after the suspension 
(and two days before the termination).
Issue 4
I partly uphold Mr Ks complaint about this issue. His email of 19 February 2019 set out his 
instruction clearly. IG was supposed to first verify whether (or not) Mr Ks new broker could 
receive the Thomson Reuters holding in specie. Only if the new broker could not receive the 
holding in specie was IG supposed to liquidate it. Available evidence suggests that IG 
breached this instruction and liquidated the holding without first verifying whether (or not) the 
new broker could receive the Thomson Reuters holding in specie. 
Having said the above, I am not satisfied that there is enough evidence of the following: 
Confirmation from Mr Ks new broker that it could have received the Thomson 
Reuters holding in specie, in his new account with the broker, and in February 2019.
Details of how IG sold and transferred the holding.
What Mr K did with the proceeds and what he did to mitigate the lost gains (in the 
holding) that he claims  for example, and importantly, did he reinvest the proceeds 
in Thomson Reuters? 
Breach of Mr Ks instruction is another service failure by IG and is enough to grant him an 
award for trouble and upset  which I address below  but evidence of what I have listed 
above, at the very least, is necessary to consider his compensation claim for the financial 
loss he alleges, which is a separate matter. 
If, in response, to this provisional decision Mr K can substantiate, with evidence (including 
evidence addressing, as a minimum, what I have listed above), the financial loss he alleges I 
will award compensation for such loss in the next decision. Otherwise, and if he cannot, I will 
not.  For the sake of clarify, I will only award compensation for lost gains from the Thomson 
Reuters holding if it is shown that:
Mr Ks new broker could have received the holding in specie in February 2019.
Mr K mitigated the matter by reinvesting the proceeds in Thomson Reuters stock 
within a reasonable period after he came into possession of the proceeds and when 
he was in a position to reinvest them. If he presents a case for alternative mitigation, I 
will consider it.
If the above is shown (and if he reinvested in the holding), then fair compensation would be 
to award him, on a proportionate basis (depending on whether (or not) the holding sold and 
the holding subsequently bought were of the same size), the difference between the value of 
the holding when it was sold and, if greater, the cost of the holding when he reinvested in it. 
If the above is not shown, the implication would be that Mr K did not mitigate the matter and 
that he was not attached to retaining the holding  otherwise, he ought reasonably to have 
reinvested in it. In such case, I am unlikely to accept his claim of financial loss and unlikely to 
award the compensation he seeks for that claim.
Trouble and UpsetMr K is correct in saying that the trouble and upset settlement mentioned in the last view 
related to a separate and distinct complaint, which forms no part of the present complaint. As 
such, I have considered, afresh, the matter of trouble and upset in the present complaint.
I consider that Mr K is entitled to an award for trouble and upset in relation to IGs service 
failures in issues 1 and 4. Both would undoubtedly have caused him distress and 
inconvenience. This services approach towards trouble and upset awards is to use them as 
a means to compensate a complainant for such distress and inconvenience caused by the 
actions or omissions of a firm. I consider that IG should pay Mr K the total of £350 in this 
respect. It is a fair amount for such compensation, and it is broadly consistent with awards 
this service has made in comparable cases.
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. IG appears to have accepted the PD and it 
said it agreed to pay Mr K £350 for trouble and upset. Mr K disagreed with the majority of the 
PDs findings, but he too agreed with compensation of £350 for trouble and upset, and he 
said he is prepared to abandon issue 3. In other respects, and in the main, he said:
This service should disclose to him all evidence presented by IG.
IG must explain why it failed to follow his instruction in issue 4.
I have mishandled issue 4, it is not simply a matter of service failure  and he 
should not be expected to  somehow magic mitigation  for IGs failure to follow 
his instruction.
I have also mishandled issue 1 and my provisional findings on it conflict with another 
decision from this service on a comparable matter, in which the ombudsman said the 
firm should have informed the client about a corporate event.
With regards to issue 2, his instruction to IG on 18 December 2018, about Carnival 
Plc, was well within the 30 days account termination notice period so IG should have 
actioned his instruction.
Further with regards to issue 2, it is inconceivable that I have not upheld his 
complaint about bullying and victimisation. I have misrepresented those detriments 
as a broken relationship. He was victimised for making three valid complaints. I am 
wrong to suggest that a three months delay in transferring in a portfolio is okay, that 
a firm not following a customers instruction is okay, that a firm not notifying a client 
of a corporate event is okay and that complaining about such issues amounts to a 
breakdown in relationship. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reconsidered the evidence, including the parties comments on the PD, I have not 
been persuaded to depart from the findings in the PD. I maintain the findings and 
conclusions in the PD, and I incorporate them into this decision.
I address Mr Ks comments as follows:
His request for disclosure of evidence has been passed to the cases investigator. My 
remit in this decision is to determine the complaint.
The PD upheld the merits of issue 4 (separate and distinct from the compensation 
claimed). IG has not presented submissions or evidence to challenge this finding. I 
retain the finding and I do not consider it necessary for IG to explain why it failed to 
follow Mr Ks instruction. As far as this decision is concerned, it is enough to find that it failed to follow the instruction. Indeed, the lack of an explanation further supports 
this finding. If Mr K seeks further dialogue with IG over this issue he can pursue that 
separately but, I repeat, the merits of issue 4 are upheld.
As evident in the PDs findings on issue 4 (quoted above) I did not limit myself to 
considering service failure only. The PD set out the need to substantiate a claim for 
financial loss and made clear what Mr K had to address in this respect. He has 
addressed none of what is reasonably required to establish the financial loss that he 
claims and his argument appears to be that he was not obliged to mitigate his 
position. I disagree. He was required to mitigate his position with regards to the 
Thomson Reuters holding and the PD explained the reasoning behind this 
expectation. In the absence of evidence of such mitigation and of the information 
queried in the PD, I do not accept Mr Ks claim for financial loss in issue 4.
The PD made the following finding with regards to issue 1   I am satisfied that the 
takeover was an event that met IGs CAs definition of a corporate event. I also 
consider that IG should have contacted Mr K about the takeover event. The key 
points in this issue, as addressed in the PD and which Mr K has not addressed, are 
that aside from IGs failure he ought reasonably to have known about the relevant 
corporate event in any case and that he had primary responsibility to do so, in which 
case he is primarily responsible for issue 1.
As I said in the PD  Section 25 of the CA permitted IG to suspend accounts at any 
time and section 26 permitted it to terminate accounts with 30 days written  
Neither step required reasons. The sum of both meant the relevant account could no 
longer be used to open new buy or sell positions  other than the sale/closure of pre-
existing positions  and could no longer be used for inward transfers. What I referred 
to as the sum of both was not my invention or interpretation, it is what the CA 
expressly states. It made no difference that Mr Ks Carnival Plc related instruction 
was within the termination notice period, the account could not be used to open new 
buy or sell positions at the time, so the new buy position for Carnival Plc shares that 
he sought was out of the question. 
Nothing in the PD said a three months delay in transferring in a portfolio is okay  the 
PD does not even address this as it was not a complaint issue; nothing in the PD 
said a firm not following a customers instruction is okay; and nothing in the PD said a 
firm not notifying a client of a corporate event is okay. The PD also did not say 
complaining about any of these issues amounted to a relationship breakdown  in 
fact and to the contrary, the PD said It is not necessary for me to find that the 
relationship was broken, and I do not (as I also do not find that it was not broken). 
Such a finding, either way, is not important. It is enough to find, based on the facts, 
that IG was not unreasonable in perceiving that the relationship was broken . The 
PD gave due and proper treatment to Mr Ks claim that the suspension of his account 
was an act of victimisation by IG. I do not consider that Mr K has said anything which 
calls into question the reasoning set out in the PD  reasoning which I retain  
including, and perhaps especially, the fact that contractually IG did not need a reason 
to suspend and terminate the account. I do not suggest that this automatically means 
suspension of the account could not have been an act of victimisation. However, as 
determined in the PD, there is enough evidence to support the conclusions that IG 
simply considered its relationship with Mr K to be broken; that, without having to 
determine whether (or not) the relationship was broken, the facts do not suggest 
such a conclusion was unreasonable; and that Mr K has not established the 
whistleblowing and victimisation he claimed.Putting things right
I said in the PD, and I retain, the following:
I consider that Mr K is entitled to an award for trouble and upset in relation to IGs service 
failures in issues 1 and 4. Both would undoubtedly have caused him distress and 
inconvenience. This services approach towards trouble and upset awards is to use them as 
a means to compensate a complainant for such distress and inconvenience caused by the 
actions or omissions of a firm. I consider that IG should pay Mr K the total of £350 in this 
respect. It is a fair amount for such compensation, and it is broadly consistent with awards 
this service has made in comparable cases.
Both parties agree with the above finding. I present it as an order, to IG, for compensation to 
Mr K for the trouble and upset caused (by IG) to him in issues 1 and 4.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ks entitlement to an award for trouble and upset, 
only for IGs service failures in issues 1 and 4 (in the total amount of £350); I uphold only the 
merits of issue 4, but not his claim for financial loss compensation; I do not uphold his claim 
for financial loss compensation in issue 1; and I do not uphold issues 2 and 3. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman