DRN-3863722
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs S have complained that Praetorian Legal Limited invoiced them for a success 
fee based on the amount a lender had written off, as opposed to what theyd recovered.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs S bought a timeshare funded by loans from a lender Ill call L. After several 
years, they felt theyd been mis-sold the timeshare and the funding. So in 2016 they 
engaged Praetorian to help them recover what theyd lost. The agreement Mr H and Mrs S 
signed provided that Praetorian would receive a fee equivalent to 25% plus VAT of anything 
they recovered from L.
In respect of one loan, L offered a single payment as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H and Mrs S 
accepted the offer and paid Praetorians fee for recovering this.
L broke payments in respect of the second loan down into a basic refund of £10,948.17 
(made up of interest and charges paid) and an additional refund of £10,289.47, representing 
the capital repayments Mr H and Mrs S had made and 8% interest on those. And they wrote 
off the outstanding balance of £18,282.79.
Praetorian invoiced Mr H and Mrs S £6,373.61 (including VAT) in respect of the two refunds 
theyd received. And they sent them a second invoice for £5,484.82 (including VAT) in 
respect of the £18,282.79 which L had written off.
Mr H and Mrs S accepted £6,373.61 was due. But they said theyd not recovered 
£18,282.79. So they didnt think they should be charged a fee for that.
Praetorian rejected Mr Hs and Mrs Ss complaint. They said theyd done a great deal of 
work on their claim, with the result that Mr H and Mrs S no longer had to make further 
payments to L.  So Praetorian said Mr H and Mrs S had recovered this money for the 
purposes of the claim.
Mr H and Mrs S didnt accept Praetorians final response and brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator considered it and concluded Praetorian were entitled to charge their 
fee because future payments to L had been cancelled. But he said Praetorian should pay Mr 
H and Mrs S £250 compensation because their fee information didnt make this clear and so 
Mr H and Mrs S were shocked when they received the invoice.
I didnt agree with the investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision.  
During the investigation, Praetorian sent us copies of two decisions made by our service 
which they said also considered this issue.  Neither decision upheld the complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that we consider the facts and evidence of each case 
to reach a decision we think is fair and reasonable.  So I wasnt bound to reach the same 
outcome in Mr Hs and Mrs Ss complaint as the ombudsman did in those cases.
I looked at the agreement Mr H and Mrs S signed and noted no terms were defined.  And 
Praetorian had confirmed that no other guidance about fees was given, nor had they 
provided any illustrations to show how their fees were applied.  In the absence of any other 
guidance I provisionally decided it was fair to apply the everyday meaning of recover to the 
agreement.  
I referred to the definition in Dictionary.com which is to get back again or regain.  I said I 
thought that was consistent with the general understanding of the word.  And that, in the 
absence of any information to persuade me otherwise, it was reasonable for Mr H and Mrs S 
to have understood the agreement with Praetorian related to money returned to them by L.  
L never paid them £18,282.79.  So I provisionally decided it wasnt fair for Praetorian to 
charge them a fee based on recovering this sum.  I provisionally directed them to cancel 
their invoice of 10 September 2021 for £5,484.82, as well as pay Mr H and Mrs S the £250 
compensation the investigator had recommended.
Mr H and Mrs S have acknowledged my provisional decision, but not added anything further.  
Praetorian asked for an explanation about why this matter differed from the two decisions 
previously made, which they called precedents.
The matters now been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Hs and Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive summarised my provisional decision above.  Praetorian didnt accept that as they 
thought I should follow the precedent of the copy decisions they sent me.  They asked this 
matter differed from those precedents.
The investigator replied to Praetorians comments, confirming that Id explained in my 
provisional decision why Id reached a different decision from the previous ombudsman and 
inviting them to make further representations.  None have been received.  So Ill set out here 
what I said in my provisional decision.
Firstly, as I explained, we consider each case on its own merits.  So the other decisions 
Praetorian have supplied arent precedents.  What was decided in those complaints 
doesnt limit or direct the decision I make in Mr Hs and Mrs Ss case.
And, even if that were the case, I was only provided with the decisions  not the evidence 
that led to them being made.  They dont show me what costs information was supplied or 
what definitions the agreements applied to terms.  
The decisions relate to a different business  so I have no way of knowing how similar (or 
not) that businesss terms and conditions are to Praetorians.  And the agreements the 
decisions considered were made several years later than the one Mr H and Mrs S signed.
So  as Ive outlined above  I think the fairest approach is to consider the everyday 
meaning of recover.  Ive explained why Im more persuaded by Mr Hs and Mrs Ss 
interpretation.  Nothings been submitted which has led me to change my view. And thats 
why Im upholding Mr Hs and Mrs Ss complaint.Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said:
As I dont think it was fair for Praetorian to charge a fee in respect of the £18,282.79 which L 
wrote off, I think they should cancel their invoice dated 10 September for £5,484.82.
And I think Praetorian should also pay the £250 compensation the investigator concluded  
Mr H and Mrs S should receive. Its clear that receiving a significant bill they werent 
expecting was a shock to them and they were clearly concerned that  unlike the other two 
bills they received  theyd had no refund from which to make payment. I think its 
reasonable for Praetorian to compensate them for that distress and inconvenience.
On the basis that nothing has been submitted which has persuaded me to change what I 
said there, it remains my view that this is a fair resolution to Mr Hs and Mrs Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs and Mrs Ss complaint about Praetorian 
Legal Limited and directing Praetorian to:
Cancel their invoice dated 10 September 2021 for £5,484.82; and
Pay Mr H and Mrs S £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman