DRN-3777324
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account without notice and hasnt 
given a reason for their decision.
What happened
Ms D held an account with Barclays. In December 2020, Barclays received a report from 
another bank to inform them that Ms D had been the recipient of fraudulent funds. Barclays 
carried out an investigation and decided to end their relationship with Ms D. The account 
was closed, and Barclays registered a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) 
marker against Ms D.
Ms D noticed she wasnt able to use her account in late December 2020. She said this 
caused issues as she wasnt able to pay her rent. Ms D explained that her flat mates paid 
money into her account, and she paid the rent on their behalf but wasnt able to because of 
the block. Ms D also realised she was struggling to open other bank accounts. 
Barclays investigated things and asked Ms D about the fraudulent money which was paid 
into her account and withdrawn. Ms D told Barclays the payment was from a friend, and she 
was expecting it  but couldnt provide proof of entitlement, or her friends name. Barclays 
decision remained and the complaint was referred to our service.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. He 
explained that Ms Ds statement supports the version of events linked to the fraudulent 
payment being for the sale of a bike which was never received, and Barclays had acted 
appropriately in the circumstances.
Ms D didnt agree. She confirmed she had never sold a bike and didnt have a bike to sell. 
Ms D provided statements of support from the friends she shared her property with.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether it was fair of Barclays to apply the marker, based on the evidence and 
what the rules say about applying such markers. 
Was the fraud marker applied fairly? 
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently. This type of marker will 
stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult for a customer to take out new 
financial products as Ms D has encountered. In order to file such a marker, Barclays arent 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Ms D is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, 
but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS 
says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or 
financial crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Ms Ds account or fraudulent funds have entered Ms Ds 
account and were either moved on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong 
evidence to show that Ms D was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment 
and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered 
against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity. 
Its not in dispute that the funds that entered Ms Ds account, however Ms D has said she 
believed the payment to be from her friend  and therefore didnt know they were fraudulent.
So, I have carefully considered whether Barclays could conclude she was deliberately 
dishonest in the receipt and utilisation of these funds. Having done so, I do think there is 
enough evidence to suggest that Barclays could reasonably conclude Ms D had been 
deliberately dishonest. Ill explain why: 
I havent seen any evidence of reports of unauthorised use from Ms D to Barclays at 
the time the account was used when she became aware of the CIFAS marker. 
The contact notes from Barclays show Ms D confirmed the payment was from her 
friend but wasnt able to provide proof of the entitlement or provide her friends name. 
Ms D, through her representative, has confirmed to our service that she had no 
intention to sell a bicycle  or ever had one to sell. She has also provided statements 
to support this from the friends she shares her property with.
Ms Ds statement shows money which entered her account held the reference bike 
and therefore this supports the fraud report Barclays received. Ms D then withdrew 
this money on the same day it was received.
Ms D hasnt provided a reasonable explanation as to why a friend whos name she 
doesnt know sent her money with the reference bike, and why she withdrew it.
Ms D has confirmed it was her who withdrew the money  and so there is no 
question that someone else may have had access to her account.
In summary, Im satisfied that by her own admission Ms D withdrew the fraudulent money 
which entered her account and hasnt given a plausible explanation as to what the money 
was for, or who sent it. Based on all of the available evidence and arguments, Im more 
persuaded that Ms D was an active participant in what happened. So, I think it was fair for 
Barclays to register the appropriate fraud marker.
Account closure
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing, blocking, and subsequently closing Ms Ds account. Barclays are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Ms Ds case, money paid into 
her account was raised as suspicious, so Im pleased to see Barclays took the action to 
block any further activity on the account while they investigated things. Barclays received 
information from the sending bank which they have shared with our service in confidence. 
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Barclays were entitled to close Ms Ds 
account and did so by complying with the terms and conditions of the account. Therefore, I 
cant reasonably say Barclays did anything wrong when deciding to close Ms Ds account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman