DRN-3944420
The complaint
Miss N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have made multiple errors.
What happened
Miss N has detailed a number of recent issues which shes had with NatWest. She says that 
she was not given adequate notice that the interest on her arranged overdraft had nearly 
doubled. She says she only found out when a staff member from NatWest informed her in or 
around October 2021. She says NatWest had applied a Z marker to her customer profile 
which prevented her from being accepted for a loan with them. Miss N says that when she 
went through the loan process, she was told by the representative that this would not 
register as a hard search, but a soft search on her credit file, but the following day she was 
alerted to a hard search on her credit file by NatWest and her credit score went down.
Miss N says that when NatWest removed the Z marker, they told her they accidently put an 
E1 marker on her account instead. She also said she had poor customer service on the 
phone and detailed one particular call where the call handler spoke over her and interrupted 
her. Miss N says that by the time the marker had been removed, the interest rate on the loan 
had increased, so she didnt go ahead with it. She said the marker also affected her ability to 
obtain credit from another provider. Miss N made several complaints to NatWest.
NatWest partially upheld Miss Ns complaints. They credited her account with £350 
compensation. They also credited her with a refund of £156.25 overdraft interest on her bank 
account and £96.10 interest on her loan account. They said they had sent her 
communication of the overdraft interest increase via her preferred channel  email, and they 
wouldnt ring a customer about these changes. NatWest admitted that the E1 marker was 
placed incorrectly in the removal of the Z marker. They said they can also refuse to advise 
why additional lending hasnt been given and a bank does have the right to refuse to give 
additional lending.
NatWest said when a loan is applied for, they must do a hard search to ensure that they do 
not overcommit customers with any additional lending and Miss N should have been 
informed of this, and the person dealing with her loan misadvised her of this. They said they 
would remove the hard search, but this could take up to 4-8 weeks to be actioned. Miss N 
brought her complaint to our service. She said the compensation that had been paid was not 
enough and she wanted £8,500 compensation (minus what had been paid to her).
Our investigator said that she thought the £602.35 compensation (£350 for distress and 
inconvenience and £252.35 interest refunds) was reasonable for what happened. She said 
with the interest rate rise, Miss N was provided with at least thirty days notice before the 
change took place and she was notified through her preferred communication method. She 
said the compensation NatWest paid Miss N in her opinion fairly recognises the impact that 
the errors would have had on Miss N. 
Miss N asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said she did not feel that she had been left in the same position as she had 
been in prior to the initial loan errors and she detailed the impact the errors had on her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Notice of the overdraft interest increase
NatWests terms and conditions state under 11.4 that if they increase arranged overdraft 
interest rates they will give Miss N at least 30 days notice and they would give her notice by 
either post, email or secure message to her inbox in online banking. So here, I would expect 
them to give Miss N at least 30 days notice that her overdraft interest was increasing. I 
would not expect them to ring Miss N about this as they dont say they will do so. NatWest 
have said they emailed Miss N information about this changing in January 2020, which 
would have come into effect from March/April 2020, but due to the pandemic this did not go 
into force until August 2020. 
NatWest are unable to send us the exact communication they sent Miss N although they 
have sent us a copy of the sample communication they say they sent her. Ive noted the 
strength of feeling that Miss N has regarding her not being adequately notified about this, but 
on the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that she would have been sent this email. I 
say this as this was a change which affected all of NatWests customers who had the same 
account as her and as such they say they communicated this to all of their customers who 
this affected. As the terms and conditions state they must give at least 30 days notice in this 
instance, then Im persuaded that NatWest sent their customers this communication when 
they said they did between 6-30 January 2020. But due to the time that has passed since 
then, they arent able to provide us with the specific email they sent Miss N, I think this is 
reasonable given the time thats passed.
I can also see from their internal communications that they have sent us that the 
communication is mandatory and they would be contacting 15million customers informing 
them about the changes. So Im persuaded that on the balance of probabilities, they gave 
Miss N adequate notice of the overdraft interest increase. Ive also been provided with 
internal information which shows that NatWest would be contacting their customers via post 
or email to let them know from July 2020 that the previously postponed new overdraft 
interest rates would take effect from 7 August. So Im persuaded Miss N would have been 
sent further information about this also. 
Loan application outcome/hard search/incorrect markers added
Its difficult to say what would have happened with the loan application in November 2021 if 
there had not been a E1 marker on Miss Ns profile. I say this as while this may have 
affected the application in November 2021, its not clear what the outcome of the application 
would have been without this marker. I say this as there would be multiple other factors 
which would be taken into consideration when assessing an application for a loan. Ive 
listened to a phone call which Miss N had with NatWest on 28 October 2021, where she tells 
the call handler how her financial situation has changed during the pandemic as she had 
gone from three jobs to one job and her reliance on the overdraft had increased and her 
family circumstances had also changed. So its possible that even without the marker on her 
profile that the application could have been declined. 
But I have listened to a call on 3 November when the call handler told her that the Z marker had been removed. Miss N says she would be visiting the branch on the Friday and they 
would be looking at a consolidation loan. The call handler says if he cant (sort out a 
consolidation loan for her), no changes will be made to the account, but of course you have 
this number for your records, if you want to come back to us and discuss any payment plan 
options we recently went through on Thursday. So it appears the loan application was not 
guaranteed and would be subject to their internal scoring. So I cant fairly say that she 
definitely missed out on the opportunity for a loan with NatWest when the acceptance of an 
application was not guaranteed and there are several other factors that NatWest would need 
to consider. Although she says the interest rate had increased after the information had been 
removed, again, I cant say she was disadvantaged as there was no guarantee she would 
have been accepted for this loan  and she did not go ahead with an application for this 
loan.
NatWest have also confirmed that the E1 marker was an internal marker and would not have 
been reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) so other financial institutions would 
not have been aware of this. So Im not persuaded this would have affected an application 
with another provider. The hard search potentially could have affected an application 
elsewhere before it was removed, although different lenders would interpret this differently. 
But Im not persuaded that this would have affected a loan application elsewhere in isolation. 
Again, this is because there are a number of factors which are considered when a financial 
institution assesses an application for credit. 
But while I cant evidence that Miss N would have been accepted for a loan with NatWest or 
another provider even without any markers or a hard search showing, I am persuaded that 
NatWest did let down Miss N by what happened here. The Z marker was showing on her 
profile in error, and while they removed this in a timely manner when they were aware of 
this, they made another error when they removed this by registering an E1 marker. Although 
this wouldnt have affected any applications elsewhere as NatWest say it was not reported to 
the CRAs, it would still be distressing for Miss N to find this out when this was placed due to 
no fault of her own. And it gave her the impression that she may have been accepted for a 
loan if the marker hadnt been placed on her profile.
In addition, NatWest accept that Miss N could have been told that there would be no hard 
search conducted by them and reported to the CRAs. But they do perform a hard search in 
this instance. So if Miss N had been told this wouldnt occur, again this would be distressing 
for her. In addition she would have been inconvenienced by bringing this to NatWests 
attention. Then she had to wait for this to be removed. While NatWest would not be 
responsible for all of the time it took for the hard search to be removed from her credit file  
as they would be reliant on the CRAs to act in a timely manner, if they had not registered 
this in the first place, then they wouldnt have needed to remove this.
Poor customer service
I have seen and listened to more than one instance of poor customer service. I say this as 
NatWest have made several errors which Ive already documented. In addition to this, she 
also had an upsetting experience on the phone with a call handler who frequently interrupted 
her, even though Miss N had told him how frustrating this was. So its clear this call could 
have been handled better. She was also promised a call back by a manager, but it does not 
appear that this happened, which would have resulted in further distress for Miss N.
Ive considered what Miss N has said about her not feeling she is in the same position after 
the errors as she was prior to the errors being made. But as Ive previously explained, 
NatWest are entitled to increase the overdraft interest based on their terms and conditions. 
They have also removed the markers and they have confirmed no adverse data had been 
reported to the CRAs. And the hard search has been removed. I know Miss N has said the interest rate on the loan has since increased, but as I have previously explained, there is no 
guarantee she would be approved for the loan anyway. So in the sense the incorrect 
markers and the hard search have been removed, Im persuaded that she is in as close as 
the position that she would have been in now if they hadnt been applied in the first place. 
And it could be argued she is in a better position than she was in before financially as she 
has also had two months worth of loan interest and overdraft interest refunded.
Ive considered what would be reasonable compensation for this complaint. While I wont go 
into great detail here about Miss Ns health situation in this decision, I can confirm to her that 
Ive read everything shes said about how this affected her and this continues to affect her, 
so I have taken her individual circumstances into account here. 
Ive considered the amount of compensation that Miss N wants to resolve her complaint. It 
may help if I explain to Miss N that compensation is a discretionary remedy that we 
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused 
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
The compensation that Miss N has asked for is significantly more than what I can award 
here based on what happened. And as Ive previously mentioned, there is no guarantee she 
would have been accepted for the loan. The £350 that NatWest paid Miss N is in line with 
what I would have awarded her if they did not uphold her complaint and it is in line with our 
guidelines for compensation. So Im satisfied that this amount is fair for the impact of the 
errors would have had on Miss N. They also refunded her £252.35 in total interest  which 
Im satisfied this was fair for them to pay to reflect the time for them to rectify the errors they 
had made. In total, they paid £602.35 compensation, which Im satisfied this was fair for the 
reasons Ive already mentioned. So it follows I dont require NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman