DRN-3054931
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
dealt with its query about a card application poorly.
What happened
The sole director of O made an application on its behalf for a card account from American 
Express in September 2020. This was declined and O wrote on 28 October 2020 in 
response providing further information and asking that its application be reconsidered. 
Having not heard anything the owner of O, the partner of the sole director, called on 14 
December 2020. He was told that the letter hadnt been received and that O couldnt send a 
further copy by email but would have to post this. O complained.
American Express said that it hadnt made a mistake. The original letter had been received 
but because O hadnt provided the reference number for its application but instead the 
personal card number of the director it hadnt been able to find this out on the call. The 
member of staff had asked for details about the appeal O wanted to make. And as O had 
refused to provide this it said that the only option was to write in again. It had the appeal, it 
didnt as a matter of course acknowledge receipt and there was no set timescale for 
response.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that American 
Express hadnt provided him with a copy of the call recording or the outcome of an appeal 
despite him asking for it more than once. He said that we had no role in setting the 
processes of American Express or in telling it to provide a particular product. So here even if 
the complaint was upheld he wouldnt be in a position to tell American Express to provide the 
card account or retrain its staff as O wanted. American Express had given an explanation of 
why it hadnt been able to find the application on the system. And he said that there was 
some likely miscommunication. On one hand he thought the member of staff might have 
known the email account for appeals. But on the other it wasnt unreasonable for O to have 
set out what the basis of its appeal was. Thats even though O already had been told in an 
earlier call that there were some complexities to the application and so it didnt expect the 
member of staff to be able to deal with these. He couldnt see that American Express had 
made an error that had an impact on O, and we wouldnt look to award compensation for the 
time spent on the processes  especially as there was no guarantee O would be offered an 
account. 
O didnt agree. It said that the investigator had looked into things up to a point. But O hadnt 
been aware that he wouldnt have the recording of the call. And it said we should draw an 
adverse inference as a result. We oughtnt to have relied on what American Express said 
about the call. It was only true to say that the owner has refused to provide even more detail 
of the finer complexities of the appeal on the basis that these were matters for a higher 
executive in American Express. The person from American Express had made ridiculous 
claims and giving more information would have made no difference. O didnt accept that 
there was no email address that could have been provided or that finding it even if there was 
a complex organisational structure wasnt possible. O didnt accept the distinction between 
the directors personal account and finding an application for O. It said that it is simply not 
the case that the existing account number wouldnt be linked to the new account enquiry. 
Either the person dealing with the call failed to understand the request or she was a 
professional who ought to have been able find the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to set out a number of points first about our role. We provide informal dispute 
resolution and we arent a court. We are also not the regulator and as our investigator has 
said we dont have a role in setting processes and wouldnt generally interfere in the 
exercise of American Express commercial discretion about any application. The 
complainant here is O so whilst I understand what its representatives say about their good 
financial standing and their existing relationship with American Express, I can only consider 
the position for O, a separate legal entity. We rely on the submissions and evidence 
provided by the parties to the complaint. If as here one doesnt provide something that has 
been requested then its now a matter for me to decide how to approach that. Ill explain that 
below.
O believes American Express should have handled its call in a different way. And American 
Express said it didnt make a mistake. Of course, it would have been preferable for both 
parties if the information about the existing appeal having been received had been 
discovered on the call. O didnt provide the reference for the appeal. And American Express 
said it couldnt find the case based on the directors personal account number which seemed 
to be that as an additional card holder. I dont on the basis of the evidence find American 
Express made a mistake. And I dont see that listening to the call if I was able to would likely 
have assisted me in deciding on that. 
Thinking that the appeal hadnt been received O wanted to email it. That didnt seem like an 
unreasonable request. American Express takes the view that it needed more information to 
find out where to send the request. I can see why O took that as a reluctance to provide the 
information and based on what it says about the call I dont think that the explanation that 
American Express didnt have enough information to find the email address was right. 
Having said that I also think American Express was entitled to want to know more about the 
detail of the appeal as this was its process. And that meant that the call didnt end with the 
outcome O wanted.
In any event the position is that the appeal had been received and for reasons which arent 
clear hadnt been reviewed so in practice nothing was lost in the appeal from not having the 
email details. The issue really was that O didnt think it had been received. Whilst the 
representatives of O understandably found this frustrating I cant identify a material effect for 
O. So, based on my findings and what Ive already said about our role I wont be in a position 
to require American Express to consider the appeal favourably, change any processes, 
undertake staff training or to make a goodwill payment  all outcomes O asked for in its 
complaint form to this service.
I know that the representatives of O are going to be very disappointed with the outcome. O 
suspects consideration of the appeal has been put on hold during the currency of this 
complaint. Whether or not that is right I would encourage American Express now to respond 
to the appeal but thats not something I have a basis to direct it to do as a result of this 
complaint. If O doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court 
subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman