DRN-3590519
The complaint
Mr T complains that True Potential Investments LLP (TPI) caused delays when drawing
down funds from his personal pension plan.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 22 March 2023. In it, I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
In November 2020, Mr T was advised by True Potential Wealth Management (TPWM) to
invest into a True Potential Personal Pension plan. Mr Ts plan is held on TPIs investment
platform and TPI is responsible for processing any drawdown requests Mr T makes.
On 6 September 2021, one of TPWMs advisers sent a message to TPI as Mr T wanted to
request a pension drawdown payment from his SIPP. TPI replied to say it had made this
possible for Mr T to do this on its client site. And on 8 September 2021, Mr T submitted a
request to drawdown £10,000 from his SIPP. The next day, TPI messaged one of the TPWM
advisers to say the drawdown request had been actioned. TPI said it completed trades of
assets held within Mr Ts pension on 15 and 16 September 2021  the drawdown payment
was later paid to Mr T on 24 September 2021.
On 20 September 2021, one of TPWMs advisers asked TPI for the dates of all pension
drawdown payments Mr T had received since hed withdrawn his tax free cash, the amount
of payments, the trade dates of each request and the date each payment was paid. TPWM
told TPI Mr T was querying the timing of his latest drawdown request and whether hed
received the best pricing.
TPI responded the next day:
"Hi, that is no problem, after the PCLS [Tax Free Cash] we had requests on the
15/01/2021, 09/02/2021, 17/06/2021 and the 08/09/2021 and we paid to the client the
gross amounts of £4375, £29000, £7000, and £10000 on the 29/01/2021,
26/02/2021, 02/07/2021 and the 24/09/2021 respectively.
The date of the trades are as follows, and again respectively; 25/01/2021,
24/02/2021, 25/06/2021 and 16/09/2021 with each of the settlement dates 2 working
days after the trade dates.
TPWM queried the difference between the trade and settlement dates. TPI said the trade
dates are the dates that the payments left the TPI Platform and the settlement dates are the
dates that the sale of assets settled with TPIs Pension Banking team and were available to
be paid to Mr Ts nominated account. TPI also said the payment dates vary because tax free
payments are usually paid out on the working day after the settlement date and taxable
payments are paid on the next working Friday after the settlement date as payroll for taxable
income payments is ran once a week, on a Friday.
Unhappy with this response, Mr T complained to TPI. TPI sent its final response to Mr Ts
complaint on 9 November 2021. TPI said it understood Mr Ts complaint to be that he
believed he hadnt received a fair value on the sale of the assets of his Pension Drawdown
payment, which had potentially impacted him by an estimated £4,000.
TPI said it reviews all pension drawdown requests to ensure it has all the information needed
to process the requests. It then places trades to sell assets held within the SIPP in order to
make the pension drawdown payment in cash, which can take up to five working days.
Taxable income payments need to be run through its payroll because tax must be deducted
and paid  this process happens every Friday. Taxable drawdown payments were then paid
to Mr T after tax had been deducted. TPI thought it had actioned Mr Ts drawdown requests
within a reasonable timeframe. TPI provided a copy of the relevant section of its terms and
conditions:
1.5.2 Withdrawal instructions
You can elect, by way of a valid instruction, to have withdrawals paid to your
Nominated Account on a single or regular basis, subject to any applicable
contractual, legal or regulatory restrictions and to such Instruction being for no less
than any minimum that might apply. Withdrawal proceeds will normally be paid into
your bank account within 10 working days from the date we receive a valid
instruction, but in certain circumstances it may take longer.
TPI added that the valuation information Mr T saw on TPWMs client site was not live  it
gets daily reports on the value of assets held in Mr Ts SIPP that it submits to TPWM, who in
turn add this information to its own systems overnight. So, the information shown on
TPWMs client site could be two days behind, which TPI said was an industry standard. TPI
said its trades were placed in line with its Best Execution Policy. In summary, TPI didnt
uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service to consider. Mr T said he normally requested
drawdowns when the value of his funds were higher. He felt the value of his fund was higher
on 8 September 2021, so he requested a drawdown. But he felt the process for drawing
down funds from his SIPP took a lot longer than normal with the trade being placed on
16 September 2021  and the value of his funds had dropped by around £4,000 since
8 September 2021, causing him a loss.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. He thought the drawdowns requested
on 15 January 2021, 7 June 2021 and 8 September 2021 were made within the 10 working
days set out in TPIs terms and conditions. Our investigator noted TPI began processing
Mr Ts drawdown request on 8 September 2021 the very next day, so he didnt think there
was a delay here.
However, our Investigator thought the 9 February 2021 drawdown request, which was paid
on 24 February 2021, took 13 working days to be paid  three days outside of TPIs usual
timescales. TPI acknowledged it made a mistake and missed Mr Ts initial request, which it
should have actioned on 12 February 2021, alongside other drawdown requests made on
9 February 2021. Instead, it didnt action Mr Ts request until 18 February 2021  outside of
its usual timeframe of five working days to place trades. Because of this, it offered Mr T
£100. Our Investigator recommended TPI pay Mr T its offer of £100. He also recommended
TPI pay Mr T interest at 8% simple on the £29,000 drawdown for three days  as it was paid
three days outside of TPIs usual timescales. TPI calculated the interest to be £19.06 and it
agreed to pay Mr T £119.06.
Mr T didnt accept our Investigators recommendation, saying that when he makes a
drawdown request, it should be taken from the current market value at that moment in time
and TPI should not be providing him with information that is out of date. So, this has come tome for a decision.
My provisional decision went on to say why I thought this complaint should be upheld and 
what I thought TPI should do to put things right. TPI accepted my provisional decision. Mr T 
said TPI produced a document which showed his balance before drawdown and what he 
would have left after drawdown  but he had around £4,000 less than TPI stated. He says 
TPI was unfair and misleading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, TPI accepted my decision. Mr T has commented on my provisional 
decision, but Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Ill 
reiterate these below, as I feel these address Mr Ts comments.
The drawdown Mr T is particularly unhappy about was requested on Wednesday
8 September 2021. The necessary trades were completed by Thursday 16 September 2021.
It appears TPI didnt manage to put this taxable drawdown through its payroll by Friday 
17 September 2021, so the payment was made a week later on 24 September 2021. Mr T is
unhappy about the delay in TPI completing the trades, as the value of his fund had fallen
since 8 September 2021. But I dont think there was an unreasonable delay in TPI placing
the trades. Whilst its unfortunate the value of Mr Ts fund had since fallen, I dont think TPI is
obliged to compensate Mr T based on his fund value on 8 September 2021 because I think it
began the process of completing the trades within a reasonable timeframe. And whilst there
was up to a weeks delay in the funds being paid to Mr T, TPIs terms and conditions state
its not always possible to process drawdown payments within 10 working days of receiving
a request. Given this drawdown payment needed to be put through its payroll to ensure the
correct tax was paid, I dont think the delay here was unreasonable.
I note Mr T is unhappy the fund value he saw on TPIs platform on 8 September 2021, and
the fund value shown on his drawdown request, may have not been the live current fund
value. He has reiterated this point in response to my provisional decision. But for the 
reasons outlined above, TPI has explained its not possible to display live fund values. Whilst 
TPIs terms and conditions say Mr T will have access to valuations of his pension 24 hours a 
day, these do not say that the valuation will be live. It follows the information Mr T saw was 
the most up to date fund value TPI had  and the figures presented to Mr T on his drawdown 
request were right at the time, based on the most recent information held.
Ive explained TPIs process for drawdown requests above. Ive not seen anything in TPIs
terms and conditions that say TPI will honour the price of units held in Mr Ts fund until the
drawdown process is completed. As Mr T is aware, the value of investments can fluctuate up
and down constantly. If it were to honour the unit price on Mr Ts assets at the time the
drawdown was requested, but it was later able to sell the assets for less, it would incur a
loss. Overall, I think TPI placed trades within its usual timescales, which I dont think were
unreasonable. Its unfortunate the value of units held in Mr Ts pension fell since the
drawdown was requested and Ive reconsidered this point in light of Mr Ts response to my 
provisional decision, but I still dont think TPI has done anything wrong on this occasion.
However, I agree with our Investigator that the drawdown request made on 9 February 2021
was paid outside of TPIs usual timescales and its admitted it made an error and should 
have placed trades on 12 February 2021 instead of 24 February 2021. So, I think TPI needs
to ensure Mr T hasnt been caused a loss as a result of this delay. But I think TPI needs to
put this right in a different way to that recommended by our Investigator and Ive set this outbelow.
As the matter has caused Mr T some distress and inconvenience, I think compensation for
this is warranted. However, I think the £100 offered by TPI is fair and reasonable, so Im
recommending TPI should also pay this to Mr T if it hasnt already done so.
Putting things right
I think TPI should carry out the calculation below to ensure Mr T hasnt been caused a loss
by its failure to place his trade on 12 February 2021 to complete his drawdown request.
To compensate Mr T fairly, TPI must compare the actual value of Mr Ts personal pension
with the value it would have had if TPI had placed trades to complete his drawdown request
on 12 February 2021 (the fair value).
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the pension should be deducted from the
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if TPI totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
If the fair value of Mr Ts personal pension wouldve been higher, there is a loss and TPI
should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid - presumed to be 20%.
As I understand Mr T has taken his full tax-free cash entitlement from his plan, so there
wouldnt need to be any further adjustment to the notional tax deduction TPI makes to the
compensation. However, if this isnt correct, Mr T should let me know.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of TPI receiving Mr Ts acceptance
of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TPI deducts income tax from the interest,
it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. TPI should give Mr T a tax deduction
certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest
from HMRC if appropriate.
In addition, TPI should pay Mr T £100 offered in its final response letter. I think this reflects
some inconvenience has been caused to Mr T as a result of TPIs delays. If this has already
been paid, I dont think TPI need to pay any further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, True Potential Investments LLP should do what Ive set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman