DRN-1908813
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
charge card. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. 
So Ill refer to Allianz as the seller to keep things simple. Mrs N says Allianz mis-sold her the 
PPI policy on the card. 
Background
Mrs N bought the policy in 1992 at the same time as taking out the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs Ns representatives say she was not aware the PPI was optional. But Allianz says it 
made the optional nature of the PPI clear and both the card and PPI was sold to her via an 
application form in store. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ns application form. In it, there was a section to add PPI under a 
separate heading. I can see the box requesting cover has been ticked  Mrs Ns name and 
date of birth have also been separately inserted here as the person to be covered under the 
policy. Shes then signed this form confirming the selections made. There was nothing on 
this form indicating that she had to take the PPI so she couldve declined cover if she didnt 
want it. 
So I think its likely Allianz made it clear that PPI was optional and Mrs N agreed to have it 
knowing she had a choice.  
Mrs N representatives say that she was advised to take out the policy. Allianz says that no 
advice was given. It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either 
an advised (or recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would usually 
mean that the seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and wider 
financial circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular 
customer - rather than simply intimating that its PPI policy was a good policy to have more 
generally to all of its customers. The latter would be a non-advised sale. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Allianz gave Mrs N a tailored recommendation to 
take the PPI so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure she 
got enough clear information so she could decide if she wanted to take it. The information Allianz gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The 
application form, for example, didnt explain in detail how the costs of the PPI would be fully 
worked out. But it did briefly mention the costs on there, so Mrs N wouldve known she would 
have to pay something for it, and she still wanted it. 
And Mrs N was also eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example, she was employed and didnt suffer 
from any medical conditions, so she wouldnt be affected by anything in the terms about 
known health issues or unusual working arrangements. 
Based on what I know about Mrs Ns circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. Mrs N was employed so she may have had some employee benefits provided 
by her employer. But this policy couldve paid out on top of any employee benefits she did 
have if she was off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  So, I still think she 
couldve found the policy to be useful. 
Mrs Ns representatives have also mentioned that Allianz didnt tell her about other 
insurance products available from other vendors. But Allianz only needed to give her 
information about its own policy and then it was up to Mrs N to decide if she wanted it or if 
she didnt want it, to shop around for other products elsewhere. 
With all this in mind, I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs N buying it. And I 
dont think that shes lost out as a result of anything Allianz mightve done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman