DRN-4305253
The complaint
Mr T and Miss T complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed their account. 
What happened
I am aware that Mr T and Miss T had several accounts with Santander and have raised 
complaints with this service about the closure of them. This decision will deal with the 
closure of Mr Ts and Miss Ts joint account. Their complaints regarding their other accounts 
will be addressed separately.
Mr T and Miss T had a joint account. In November 2022, following a review Santander 
decided to close the account. Santander wrote to Mr T and Miss T giving them two months 
notice that they needed to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr T complained to Santander about the closure of the account and asked Santander to 
explain why it no longer wanted him and Miss T as customers. Mr T said he suspected 
Santanders decision was based on out of date information about him in the media and 
because he had a previous conviction. In response, Santander didnt provide Mr T with much 
information. The bank said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the 
terms of the account and relevant regulations when it had closed Mr Ts and Miss Ts 
account.
Mr T wasnt happy with the banks response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
said Santander had treated him unfairly based on what had happened many years ago. He 
said Santanders actions had caused him a great deal of trouble and upset and impacted his 
business. He explained that both he and Miss T had to go to the trouble of opening new 
accounts and reorganising their finances including moving lots of direct debits, which was 
time consuming and inconvenient. Overall, Mr T has said that the whole experience took a 
real toll on both his and Miss Ts mental and financial well-being.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She said that Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had closed Mr Ts and Miss Ts account and had closed it in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Mr T disagreed. He said Santander has broken the 
law because it closed his bank account based on old information and a spent conviction.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T feels very strongly about his complaint. Thats clear from whats hes said to 
us and to Santander. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ts frustration and how this matter has impacted 
him and Miss T, its important to point out that the only thing in question here is whether 
Santander has done what it should have done. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations when providing account services to customers. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime.
Having looked at all the evidence and information, Im satisfied that Santander were 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Ts and Miss Ts 
account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
Santander is entitled to close an account with Mr T and Miss T just as they are entitled to 
close their account with Santander.  But before Santander closes an account, they must do 
so in way which is fair and complies with the terms and conditions of the account. Ive looked 
at the terms and conditions and they state that Santander could close the account by giving 
at least two months notice. Santander has done this, so Im satisfied that they have 
complied with this part.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Santanders reason for closing the account was fair. In 
doing so, I appreciate that Santander are entitled to set their own policies and part of that will 
form their risk criteria. It is not in my remit to say what policies or risk appetite Santander 
should have in place. I can however, while considering the circumstances of individual 
complaints, decide whether I think customers have been treated fairly. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr T has said regarding his conviction and the Rehabilitation 
of Offenders act 1974.  Mr T has explained that he got mixed up in something more than a 
decade ago and received a suspended prison sentence as a result. Hes also said that the 
matter was reported in the media at the time. Mr T says it would be a breach of the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 if Santanders decision was based on his previous 
conviction. He says it would also be unfair to base its decision to close the account on out of 
date news stories. 
I want to address Mr Ts comments about Santander breaking the law in relation to the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. As Ive already set out above our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts. And I cant make a finding as to whether the law has been broken, 
and I dont need to in order to decide this complaint. 
After considering all the available evidence and information I havent seen evidence to show 
Santanders decision breached the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 or that Santander 
reviewed and closed Mr T and Miss Ts account for an improper reason. Theres nothing that 
Ive seen, that suggests it amounted to anything other than a legitimate exercise of its 
discretion. It follows then that Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude 
Santander treated Mr T differently because of his previous conviction or adverse media. The 
reason Santander gave for closing the account is that it was outside the banks risk appetite. 
That in turn means it can choose who it has a customer relationship with. This is a decision 
that I cant interfere with as it is a commercial business decision.
I understand of course why Mr T wants to know the exact reasons behind Santanders 
decision, other than what hes been previously been told. And I can see that Mr T has asked 
Santander to explain itself on several occasions. But Santander doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr T 
the reasons behind the account review and closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant 
say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
In summary, I understand Mr T and Miss T will be unhappy with my decision but ultimately 
Santander is entitled to set its own risk appetite. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Santander has acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and as such I cant conclude that it has treated Mr T and 
Miss T unfairly when it closed their account.  So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ts and Miss Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman