DRN-3686420
The complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, incorrectly refused to refund a
payment and raise a direct debit indemnity claim for him.
What happened
Mr Cs energy supplier incorrectly took a payment for £1,848.43 by direct debit on 16
November 2021  he usually paid around £150 a month. Mr C contacted HSBC on 24
November 2021 for assistance, but it told him the direct debit guarantee could not be relied
on as the beneficiary had ceased trading. It told Mr C Ofgem recommended customers in
such situations should not cancel their direct debits but wait until an account with their new
account is set up. Any credit balance would be protected and paid back.
On 17 December 2021 HSBC wrote to Mr C explaining that this policy had changed
following the outcome of a complaint to the retail interbank payments standards body,
Pay.UK. It asked him to get in touch if he wished to proceed with a claim, but by this stage
Mr C has resolved the issue with the administrators of the energy supplier directly. On 28
December 2021 HSBC accepted that it had initially provided the wrong advice to Mr C and
paid £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said HSBC had acknowledged its error
and he felt the £50 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr C was unhappy with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. In
summary, he said a number of points he raised on the call of 7 January 2021 with the
investigator had not been adequately considered. He never disagreed with what the Ofgem
advice was - but he was worried as a large sum had been incorrectly taken and he was
concerned the evidence of this payment might go missing in the transfer process. He feels
no consideration has been given for the impact this situation had on his state of mind and
time, it seemed like HSBC was trying to deceive him with its misinformation and incomplete
replies.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator and planned to uphold the complaint in 
part, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I am planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part as I dont think suitable compensation as
been paid.
It is not in dispute that HSBC provided incorrect advice, more than once, about the ability to
claim under the direct debit guarantee when a company ceases to trade. It acknowledged
this in its letter of 28 December 2021 to Mr C saying that we are aware we were providing
incorrect information regarding Direct Debit Indemnity claims for companies who have gone
into liquidation or administration. I confirm the correct information has now been cascaded to
all areas of the bank. And I also agree with Mr C, the bank made somewhat unhelpful
references to the companies [sic] terms and conditions in its email of 10 December 2021
when explaining its initial position.
But whilst I agree this was unacceptable and poor service, I havent been able to find any
other evidence to support Mr Cs testimony that the banks behaviour was blatant deception.
HSBC accepted that its advice about the direct debit guarantee was incorrect and
apologised. It confirmed a claim could be progressed. But Mr C had fortunately been able to
secure a refund in the meantime, after he had done a significant amount of research and
spoken to a number of different organisations.
With regards his point that HSBCs actions were deliberately fraudulent at a corporate level,
as we are not the regulator we do not have power to investigate alleged systemic issues.
That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. We have the power to look at the merits
of individual complaints and to ensure any errors a bank makes are put right for the
individual consumer impacted. I would add here that HSBC has provided evidence that it
issued revised internal advice on 15 December 2021. This set out a process change for
direct debit indemnity claims specifically for energy companies that had gone into liquidation,
correcting its previous position.
With regards the appropriate level of compensation, I find the bank should pay Mr C a further
£50 to compensate him for the avoidable stress and inconvenience caused. This is my
conclusion based on the value of the transaction involved, the time Mr C remained
misinformed and the work he had to do to get his money back. Mr C argues the only reason
the refund was secured quite quickly was due to his actions  and I agree. But we always
consider what a customer could have done to mitigate any potential losses when making
awards.
Both parties responded before the deadline. HSBC accepted the findings set out above. 
Mr C said he now felt his concerns had been fully considered, but he still feels the bank 
should be chastised for what he sees as deliberately providing misleading information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new evidence it follows I have no grounds to change the 
findings or outcome I set out above.  I understand Mr C still feels the bank was deliberately 
misleading but as I have said previously, I could find no other evidence to support his 
testimony.
It follows I find HSBC should increase the compensation it has paid to Mr C, but take no 
other action. 
Putting things right
HSBC must pay Mr C a further £50 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint in part. HSBC Bank UK Plc, trading as first direct, must put 
things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman