DRN-2551935
The complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused to transfer her joint mortgage 
account into her sole name. She had to repay the mortgage and paid an early repayment 
charge (ERC). Ms C asks that Santander refunds the ERC.
What happened
Ms C took out a mortgage with her ex-husband in 2015. They took out a fixed interest rate 
product, which included an ERC payable if the mortgage was repaid before 2022. 
After Ms C and her husband separated, Ms C lived in the house with the children and paid 
the monthly mortgage payments. As part of their divorce settlement, Ms C had to arrange for 
her ex-husband to be taken off the mortgage account. Ms C asked Santander to transfer the 
account into her sole name. Ms C says Santander didnt treat her fairly because:
It didnt apply regulations intended to help mortgage prisoners, like her;
It didnt assess her income fairly, and penalised her for taking a Covid support payment 
from the Government; and 
When a family member offered to gift her money to repay part of the mortgage and 
reduce the amount she needed to borrow, it declined to lend saying the family member, 
who also lives in the property, could have rights over the property. 
Ms C says Santander caused delays to her divorce proceedings, and her ex-husband 
(supported by the judge) threatened to sell the house. To avoid this, Ms C repaid the 
mortgage with help from her family and partner and paid an ERC of about £12,000. She 
needs to take out a mortgage to repay her partner, and would like Santander to offer a 
mortgage and refund the ERC. 
Our investigator said Santander had applied its policies and rules on mortgage regulations 
fairly. She said it was entitled to apply the ERC.
Ms C didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of her divorce settlement, Ms C had to arrange for her ex-husband to be taken off the 
mortgage account by late 2020. She asked Santander to transfer the account into her sole 
name. There was significant equity in the property and Ms C had been paying the mortgage 
for about four years. So I can understand if she expected this to be a straightforward 
process.
However, rules of mortgage regulation say that taking out a new mortgage  or making a 
material change to an existing one  requires an affordability assessment. Adding or 
removing a borrower is a material change. That means Santander was required to do an 
affordability assessment before agreeing to remove Ms Cs ex-partner from the mortgage 
account, or offering her a mortgage in her sole name. 
There are exceptions that allow lenders to vary mortgages taken out before April 2014 
without affordability assessments in certain circumstances. This might be what Ms C means 
when she talks about help for mortgage prisoners. Ms Cs mortgage was taken out in 2015 
and so these exceptions didnt apply. 
Santander said it would lend Ms C about £87,000. The mortgage balance was about 
£250,000. Ms C needed to fund the shortfall between the amount Santander assessed as 
affordable and said it would lend, and the outstanding balance. Ms C says Santander didnt 
assess her income fairly. I dont think the evidence supports this  and given the amount of 
the shortfall I dont think it would have changed the outcome if Santander had assessed 
Ms Cs income differently. 
Ultimately, Santander didnt decline Ms Cs application due to concerns about affordability. 
Its concern was that a family member who lived at the property, and who was giving about 
£140,000 to Ms C to reduce the mortgage balance, would have an interest in the property.
While the family member was prepared to sign a disclaimer, because she lived at the 
property this didnt meet Santanders policy. Santander might have been able to offer a 
mortgage if the family member was on the mortgage account and the property title. It didnt 
discuss this with Ms C as the family member wasnt within Santanders maximum age 
criteria to be on the mortgage account. 
Ms C had taken out a fixed interest rate product that included an ERC, which applied until 
2022. Ms C agreed to this when she took out the product. As the mortgage was repaid in 
2020 Santander was entitled to apply the ERC. 
Ms Cs circumstances changed after she took out the product. This change in circumstances 
meant, ultimately, she had to repay the mortgage. I understand Ms C wanted to avoid paying 
the ERC. And she now needs a mortgage to repay her partner. But, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think Santander treated her unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Santander to offer Ms C a mortgage or refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman