DRN-3207626
The complaint
Mr B has complained that AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank (AIB) has unfairly 
turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1975 (the CCA).
What happened
Mr B, along with his wife, purchased a number of holiday products from a number of different 
businesses between 2000 and 2007. For most of these purchases he used his AIB credit 
card. The purchases are summarised in the following table:
Date Supplier Product description
August 2000 Supplier A Timeshare giving rights to use an apartment overseas
March 2004 Supplier B Membership to a holiday club providing discounted 
holidays
August 2005 Supplier C Timeshare giving rights to use an apartment overseas 
plus took over responsibility for Mr and Mrs Bs 
previous timeshare
December 2006 Supplier D Membership to a holiday club providing access to their 
resort as well as discounted holidays
March 2007 Supplier E Legal services to exit timeshare and recover monies 
paid1
In July 2017, Mr B contacted AIB to make a claim under the CCA about the products and 
services that he had bought. He said that he hadnt got what he was promised and, under 
the CCA, he thought AIB were equally responsible. 
AIB responded to say that it didnt think there was sufficient evidence to uphold Mr Bs claim 
and also that his claim had been brought too late. Mr B complained about AIBs decision and 
he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and agreed with AIB that the complaint had 
been brought too late. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 Its not clear which timeshares Suppliers C and E were going to take over or help Mr B get out of, 
but I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this decision
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is that AIB has turned down his claim under the CCA. The provisions of the 
CCA, to which Mr B has referred, deal with products bought using credit. He has explained 
that the holiday club membership purchased from Supplier B was bought using a cheque, so 
not using his AIB credit card. Given that, AIB cant be responsible for answering this 
complaint and that sale wont be considered as part of this decision. 
Mr B says that Suppliers A, C, D and E both misrepresented to him the nature and benefits 
of the agreements and breached the agreements entered into. He has pointed to s.75 CCA 
to say that AIB is jointly liable to him for those misrepresentations and breaches.
S.75 CCA reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Here, if Mr B used his AIB credit card to pay for the agreements he entered into, it is 
possible that AIB could be jointly liable. But a claim made under s.75 CCA is a legal claim to 
which the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) also applies. In broad terms, the LA sets out period in 
which a claim must be brought and, if a claim is made outside of those time limits, AIB would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr B has brought a like claim against AIB under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought 
under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr B had six years from the 
date on which the case of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Bs case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the suppliers or the like claim against AIB. I think that was the 
date he entered into the agreements as set out in the table above. It was at that time that he 
entered into agreements based, he says, on the misrepresentations of the suppliers. He 
says, had the misrepresentations not been made, he wouldnt have bought the products. 
And it was on those days that he suffered a loss, as he borrowed money from AIB using his 
card.
Similarly, s.5 and s.9 LA mean that Mr B had six years from the date on which any cause of 
action for a breach of contract claim accrued. That would normally be the date that the 
supplier breached its agreement with Mr B, as on that date he would have suffered a loss as 
he wouldnt have got what he had paid for under his agreements.
I will consider the specific dates for each supplier in turn.
Supplier A
Mr B entered into the agreement with Supplier A in August 2000. He has said that he didnt get the apartment he had been promised when he went on holiday and he tried to cancel the 
agreement. For Mr B to have brought his claim in time, he would have needed to make his 
claim about any misrepresentation by August 2006 and about any breach of contract within 
six years of when he didnt get what he should have done under the agreement. 
I havent seen a copy of the agreement, but assuming that what Mr B says is correct (that he 
was entitled to use the same apartment he saw when he took out the agreement), I think the 
breach would have happened when he first came to take a holiday. Again, I dont know 
precisely when that happened, but I think it was likely to be within the first few years after he 
took out the agreement  it seems unlikely to me that Mr B would pay for the timeshare and 
then go on to use it shortly after. But Mr B didnt make a claim until July 2017, so over 
sixteen years after the agreement was taken out. So I think it was brought outside of the time 
limits set out in the LA for either claim.
Supplier C
Mr B says that this agreement was misrepresented to him as he was told that he would be 
able to resell it, but that wasnt the case, and that the maintenance fees wouldnt increase, 
but they did. He also said the agreement was breached as Supplier C didnt arrange the 
takeover of his previous timeshare. 
I think any claim about the alleged misrepresentations needed to be made by August 2011, 
so the claim made in 2017 was brought too late. Mr C said that he received demands for 
payment of annual maintenance fees from his previous timeshare provider despite 
Supplier C saying they would take it over. I think it would have been clear shortly after he 
entered into an agreement that Supplier C hadnt done what it said it would do in taking over 
the earlier timeshare. It follows any claim made in 2017 for breach of contract was brought 
too late.
Supplier D
Mr B has said that he didnt get the service expected from Supplier D, in particular there 
wasnt availability when he tried to book and maintenance fees increased more than he 
expected. As with the earlier purchases, I think any claim for an alleged  misrepresentation 
needed to be made within six years of purchase, so Mr B has brought that claim too late.
Unfortunately the point of sale documentation isnt available, so I dont know what was said 
in the contract that Mr B says was breached. Further, Mr B hasnt set out the maintenance 
fee rises he says shouldnt have happened, so I dont know when these alleged breaches 
occurred. But I think problems with availability must have arisen shortly after the agreement 
was taken out and when Mr B came to use it  I note he sought legal help in relation to some 
of these purchases the following year. And maintenance fees are normally charged annually 
and Mr B hasnt said it was only in later years that the fees rose. Given that the purchase 
took place in December 2006, I think Mr B will have made his claim too late in July 2017.
Supplier E
Mr B paid a business to supply legal services to help him get out of the timeshare 
agreements and to recover monies. He entered the agreement in March 2007 and it appears 
that a further payment was made in 2009. Mr B hasnt said exactly what went wrong, but I 
dont think he received any meaningful legal services from Supplier E. 
Mr B first claimed to AIB in July 2017, so any breach of contract must have taken place in or 
after July 2011 for the claim to have been made in time. But that would have been over four 
years after Mr B first asked Supplier E to do work for him. I think by July 2011 it must have been clear that Supplier E were not doing what they should have done under any 
agreement, and therefore I think any claim was brought too late.
It follows that I think any claim made to AIB under s.75 CCA was brought too late and AIB 
dont need to do anything further in respect of these claims.
Our investigator also considered whether Mr B might have been able to make a claim under 
s.140A CCA, which deals with unfair credit relationships. They concluded that Mr B was too 
late to make any claim under that provision too.
Ive seen that Mr B paid off his credit card bill regularly and, in January 2009, he had cleared 
his account balance. That means that he no longer owed anything to AIB from the 
agreements entered into with any of the suppliers. As with the claim under s.75 CCA, there 
are similar time limits to any claim under s.140A CCA and Mr B would have to bring a claim 
from within six years of when any unfairness in the credit relationship ended. I think that 
would have been when he repaid anything that was owed, and as that happened more than 
six years before Mr B contacted AIB, I also think any claim would have been brought too 
late. So I dont think AIB needs to answer any of the claims brought by Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against AIB Group (UK) Plc 
trading as First Trust Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman