DRN-2979719
The complaint
Ms L complains on behalf of L, a limited company, that when she renewed Ls business 
protection insurance the advice given by Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) was wrong 
and as a result of that poor advice, L is not covered by its insurance for some claims made 
against it.
What happened
In 2013 Ms L set up L to operate as a claims management company. She obtained 
professional indemnity cover for L, which was renewed over the following years.
In July 2017 AJG emailed Ms L about the renewal of the insurance, which was due in 
September. Ms L then advised AJG that L was changing its status and would be operating 
as a solicitors practice regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA). She said L 
would need the existing cover to continue until the change took effect, and would then need 
solicitors indemnity cover.
AJG arranged for the existing policy to be extended for three months and provided a quote 
for a new policy.
In December 2017 Ms L asked AJG about whether L would need run off cover and whether 
the existing insurer would provide this for a period of six years. AJG replied saying,
You can request run-off cover for [L] but it will be charged on an annual basis. It is only 
insurers who are participating insurers of the SRA minimum terms who must provide run-off 
cover for 6 years as part of the agreement they have signed up to.
Ms L says the email wasnt clear and she phoned AJG to clarify the position, but AJG has no 
note of that call.
In January 2018 L became an SRA regulated solicitors firm and a new professional 
indemnity policy started with a different insurer. Initially this policy was in place for a short 
period but in March it was renewed for a 12 month period.  
In December 2018 L notified the insurer of a claim made against it by a former client.
The policy renewed in March 2019. In July, L received a pre-action letter from solicitors 
acting for another former client alleging negligence relating to advice given by L in 2016.
AJG referred the claim to the insurers. Initially the insurers indicated that the claim would be 
covered but they later declined to provide cover, saying there was no cover under the policy 
for matters that had been dealt with before L became regulated by the SRA.
Ms L complained on behalf of L that AJG had failed to provide advice about the need for run  
off cover or recommend a suitable policy to meet Ls needs. In response, AJG said it had 
informed L about run off cover and if L had requested this it would have given advice, but it 
hadnt been requested and it could only act on the basis of the instructions given. AJG also 
said the claim should in any event be covered by the new insurers and therefore didnt 
accept that there was any loss.
Ms L referred the complaint to this service. She said:
from 2013 until 2020, when AJG acted as Ls insurance broker, L relied on AJG to 
advise on its insurance requirements and to obtain appropriate insurance but it had 
failed to do this;
she had obtained counsels advice confirming that there was no real prospect of the 
insurer being liable to cover the claim;
as a result of AJGs negligent advice, L had been left without cover;
L had already incurred legal costs of around £50,000 and would have to meet further 
legal costs together with potentially a large payment of damages to the former client 
if the claim against L was successful.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
AJG had explained in an email to Ms L that if L wanted run off cover this would be 
charged for;
although the email could have been clearer, there wasnt any evidence to confirm 
Ms Ls claim that she was told run off cover wasnt needed;
she didnt think AJG had been negligent or had acted unfairly;
the onus was on L to show AJG had acted negligently, which it could do by providing 
legal advice and if such advice was provided then AJG would have to investigate 
further.
Ms L disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision.
She is supported in this complaint by solicitors, who provided detailed comments in reply to 
the investigators view. I wont set them out in full but in summary, their points included:
the investigators view doesnt address all aspects of the complaint;
the insurer providing the solicitors indemnity cover has been clear that it wont cover 
claims arising from work done before L became an SRA regulated firm and advice 
from leading counsel confirms there is no reasonable basis to challenge that;
L needs to have cover not just for claims arising after it became an SRA regulated 
firm, but also for any claims arising from work that had been done before the 
transition and the lack of cover for such claims means there is a significant gap in Ls 
insurance cover;
the demands and needs statement produced by AJG was deficient because it 
advised that Ls insurance needs could be met by the new policy  that advice was 
wrong;
its not correct to say AJG made a clear recommendation to L that it needed run off 
cover or that L chose not to accept that recommendation  L didnt take out additional 
cover because AJG never advised that it was needed; 
AJG acted throughout in the mistaken belief that the new policy would cover L for 
claims made about work done before Ls change in status; 
AJG failed to carry out its duties in accordance with its terms of business or the 
relevant rules and guidance;
as a result of these failings L has been caused substantial losses.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, in which I said I was minded to uphold the 
complaint and direct AJG to pay compensation to L up to a maximum of £160,000, together 
with interest. And if the amount to be paid was more than £160,000, I would recommend that 
AJG pay L the balance. I set out my reasons as follows:This was an advised sale, which means when advising L about taking out the insurance AJG 
had a duty under the relevant rules and guidance, to:
provide appropriate information in good time to enable L to make an informed choice 
about what cover was needed;
assess Ls demands and needs and, when proposing a contract of insurance, ensure 
it was consistent with Ls insurance demands and needs;
ensure the suitability of its advice; and 
ensure the information it gave to L was clear, fair and not misleading.
In addition, the basis on which AJG dealt with L was set out in its terms of business, which 
included the following:
Our services to you may include (but are not restricted to): advising you on your insurance 
needs, arranging insurance policies with insurers in order to meet those needs and any other 
related services. We will also help you to make changes to your insurance policy if required 
and will remind you when your policy is due for renewal as appropriate.
I have taken into account AJGs duties as set out in the rules and guidance, together with its 
terms of business, when considering how to determine this complaint.
AJG contacted L in good time before the policy was due to renew. But in view of the change 
in Ls status, this wasnt simply a question of renewing the existing policy  L needed a 
different kind of policy. AJG made the following recommendation to L:
We recommend that this policy is placed with insurer based upon your requirements to 
purchase Professional Indemnity Insurance and the price, extent of cover and policy benefits 
provided by the insurer.
Our recommendation is based on your requirements to purchase a Professional Indemnity 
policy for your business to the levels of cover we have discussed which is summarised in the 
attached quotation schedule.
We believe the cover(s) provided is the most suitable from the insurers that we have  
approached and based on the information you have provided.
There doesnt seem to be any argument about the new policy meeting Ls needs for 
professional indemnity claims going forward. The issue here is that it doesnt provide cover 
for any claims made against L relating to advice given before its status changed. Ms L was  
aware of the risk of a claim being made that concerned advice given before the change and 
so she asked about run off cover (where the insurance continues for a period of time after 
the policy has ended, in case any further claims are made).
AJGs response to this was in the email sent in December 2017,
You can request run-off cover for [L] but it will be charged on an annual basis. It is only 
insurers who are participating insurers of the SRA minimum terms who must provide run-off 
cover for 6 years as part of the agreement they have signed up to.
Ms L says this wasnt clear and she called AJG to clarify the position but was told she didnt 
need run off cover. AJG says it has no record of that call and in any event it had told Ms L 
that if she wanted run off cover for L she would need to pay for it, but Ms L never asked for 
this.I appreciate that AJG had made Ms L aware she could request run off cover, and Ms L was 
a professional who might be expected to have some knowledge of Ls needs. But even 
allowing for that, both AJGs terms of business and the relevant rules and guidance meant it 
had a duty to advise L about what insurance was needed and ensure its recommendation 
would provide for suitable insurance that met Ls needs. AJG sold the new policy on the 
basis it would provide the cover L needed. Thats supported by the fact AJG said the two 
claims should be covered by the new policy and pursued these claims with the new insurer.
So I think AJG considered the insurance would meet Ls needs.
However, the new insurer has refused to cover the claims. And despite AJGs assertion that 
the policy would cover the claims, L has obtained advice from a QC who confirmed it would  
not. So I dont think AJG has sold insurance to L that meets its needs.
If AJG had advised correctly on the need for separate run off cover for L, Im satisfied Ms L 
would have taken this out and would have been able to claim for the costs relating to the two 
claims made against L. AJG says theres no loss but if the claims against L are not covered 
then there is. L has already incurred legal costs that would otherwise have been covered. 
And if a claim against L is successful then there is potentially a substantial award of 
damages that will be made against L, which would also have been covered. In addition, if L 
has no run off cover than its exposed to any further claims made against it concerning 
advice given in the past which would not be covered by its current insurance policy.
For these reasons, my view is that L has suffered a loss as a result of AJGs failure to 
provide suitable advice on a policy that would meet Ls insurance needs. So AJG should 
take action to put things right.
Ms L has also raised the issue of legal costs incurred in relation to corresponding with AJG 
and pursuing this complaint. I agree that costs arising from claims made against L should be 
reimbursed, since these should have been covered. But its not my view that other costs 
should be. Its reasonable to expect L to take steps to pursue the complaint and its not 
generally necessary for legal costs to be incurred in bringing a complaint to us  our service 
is free to use and does not require legal representation, particularly for a complainant who is 
legally qualified.
Putting things right
If I uphold this complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business 
up to a limit of £160,000, plus any interest and costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that 
fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the 
balance.
I think that fair compensation should be as follows:
AJG should reimburse the reasonable legal costs L has already incurred relating to 
the claims made against it, together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date 
L paid those costs to the date they are reimbursed.
If the claims are pursued against L, AJG should arrange for a specialist loss adjuster 
or claims handler to manage the claims and should pay for the claims in line with the 
terms of the insurance policy L had in place up to 2018.
AJG should instruct and pay a specialist loss adjuster or claims handler to consider 
any further claims that fall within the gap in Ls insurance cover and if the loss 
adjuster concludes cover is available, should pay those claims in line with the terms 
of the insurance policy L had in place up to 2018.If there is any dispute on the amount of legal costs that is reasonable in relation to 
any of those claims, AJG should arrange for the costs to be assessed by a costs 
assessor. If L disagrees with the costs assessor it may seek to have the costs 
assessed by court; this is not something that could be referred to us to determine.
Replies to the provisional decision
Ms L replied to say while she accepted the findings in the provisional decision, the costs of 
pursuing the complaint should also be paid. She accepted that it might not generally be 
necessary to have legal representation, but said after receiving the investigators view L 
needed to get legal advice to challenge that, and these costs would have been avoided if B 
had conceded in the first place rather than contesting the complaint.
AJG didnt accept the provisional decision and made a number of comments, which I will 
summarise as follows :
theres no mention of the involvement of Ls compliance manager, who is very 
experienced in this type of insurance;
it would have been apparent to L, especially given the managers experience, that if 
run-off cover was needed, they should have asked for it;
the advice given was sufficient;
theres no need to refer to future claims  this issue has been resolved, so the only 
outstanding point is the existing claim from one former client (who I will refer to as 
Mr K) and the decision doesnt need to refer to any other claims or costs;
no costs have yet been paid for Mr Ks claim, so no interest needs to be added  but 
if interest is payable it should be 1%, not 8%;
there is no need for a loss adjuster or claims handler to be appointed, since there is 
only the one claim to be dealt with and Ls solicitors are already instructed to deal 
with that;
if a costs assessment is needed, it should only be regarding the costs of the one 
outstanding claim, as no other costs are relevant;
if the final decision is to uphold the complaint, it will respect the award up to the limit 
of £160,000;
a recommendation for any further payment is unnecessary and of no effect, so 
should be removed.
After considering these comments I advised the parties that I still intended to uphold the 
complaint, but was reviewing what would be an appropriate remedy, in particular whether 
this should be limited to only providing cover for the one outstanding claim and costs relating 
to that claim. I invited their comments on this. 
Ms L says:
L was forced to pursue a civil claim against AJG because the claim hadnt been 
accepted; if AJG had accepted the proposals made to it, none of these costs would 
have been incurred.
L has stayed its claim against AJG pending the outcome of this complaint but the 
proposed decision would leave L having to pay substantial legal costs. These costs 
should be paid by AJG.
The proposed decision puts L in the position of having to engage in further litigation 
about whether the legal costs to be claimed are reasonable. If L had been covered 
for the claim, all costs relating to it would have been paid  the terms of the policy 
previously in place defined costs as 'all costs and expenses...which are incurred by 
the Insurer or by the Insured with the Insurers' written Consent 
It wouldnt be fair to have to prove that costs are reasonable, especially as AJGhad the opportunity to take over the defence and instruct its own solicitors but failed 
to do that.
Its wrong for AJG to suggest no costs have been paid yet  L has already incurred 
costs of over £20,000 defending the claim made by Mr K and these costs should be 
reimbursed.
If AJG is concerned about costs going forward, this could be resolved by appointing a 
claims handler to have conduct of the case; they could decide whether to continue 
with the same solicitors or take over and instruct another firm, allowing them to 
control the costs.
AJG has throughout maintained its refusal to agree to indemnify L but partial success 
has been achieved by the resolution of AJG's liability in respect of a future claim. To 
this extent L is a successful party and should be awarded its costs.
For these reasons, the final decision should be the same as the provisional decision 
but include provision for re-imbursement of the costs L has already incurred in 
relation to its claim against AJG and remove the provision which would potentially 
leave L facing costs litigation
AJG says:
While it does not agree with the proposed decision, it will abide by it and make any 
payment on receiving evidence of costs or loss incurred up to the limit of £160,000. 
It has some further comments on the proposed award, which are made in the spirit of 
reaching a resolution and not to alter the substance of it. These comments should not 
be taken as an admission of liability.
The decision refers to costs relating to and for dealing with Mr Ks claim. It would 
request this is changed to in the defence of purely to avoid ambiguity and make 
clear that costs to be paid are only the costs of defending Mr Ks claim, not the costs 
of Ls complaint.
Including a recommendation for payment over £160,000 is unnecessary but if it is 
included the decision should expressly say the limit is £160,000, which is accepted 
by both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the further comments from both parties it remains my view that the 
complaint should be upheld. I note AJGs comment that Ls compliance manager was 
experienced in insurance matters. As I said in the provisional decision, Ms L was herself a 
professional who might be expected to have some knowledge of Ls needs. But even 
allowing for the knowledge that Ms L or the compliance manager may have had, the crux of 
the matter is that AJG had a duty to advise L about what insurance was needed and ensure 
its recommendation would provide for suitable insurance that met Ls needs. 
AJG recommended the new policy and advised that it would provide the cover L needed. Im 
satisfied AJG considered the insurance would meet Ls needs, as shown by the fact it said 
the two claims should be covered by the new policy and pursued these claims with the new 
insurer. Indeed it said this was the most suitable cover. But despite AJGs belief and the 
clear recommendation to L, the policy didnt meet Ls insurance needs and so wasnt 
suitable. And on that basis Im still upholding the complaint.
However, Im also satisfied that any issues concerning claims other than the one brought by 
Mr K have been resolved. So there is no need for me to make recommendations about other 
claims, including potential new claims. The issues to address are: 
how to deal with Mr Ks claim; and 
the costs L seeks in relation to bringing the complaint to this service.
I will deal with the second point first. Ive considered Ms Ls comments about having to bring 
a complaint because of AJGs stance, and I appreciate that costs have been incurred in 
relation to this. But its not generally necessary for legal costs to be incurred in bringing a 
complaint to us. Our service is free to use and doesnt require legal representation. A 
complainant simply needs to set out their concerns and our inquisitorial approach allows us 
to gather the information we need to consider the complaint. 
I think L would have been able to bring the complaint to us  and challenge the investigators 
view  without the need for representation, particularly bearing in mind that Ms L is legally 
qualified and has the support of someone with knowledge of insurance.
My view therefore is that although AJG does need to cover Mr Ks claim and costs of 
defending that claim, it does not need to cover costs relating to Ls complaint, or any other 
costs; if L has incurred other costs pursuing any action against AJG that would have been at 
Ls choice and its own risk. For the avoidance of doubt, that means only paying costs 
incurred by L in responding to Mr Ks claim. 
Although AJG said no costs had yet been incurred by L in responding to Mr Ks claim, the 
information Ive seen shows that some costs have already been incurred. Those costs 
should be reimbursed and interest added on anything L has already paid in relation to this.
AJG has questioned the interest rate but I think a rate of 8% simple interest per year is 
appropriate to reflect the cost of being deprived of money.
AJG says there is no need for a loss adjuster or claims handler, as there is only the one 
claim to be dealt with and Ls solicitors are already instructed to deal with that. Whilst that 
may be the case, there is no guarantee that Ls current solicitors will necessarily be able to 
continue acting on the case throughout. There could potentially come a time when for one 
reason or another they are no longer able to act, or L no longer wishes them to act. So I 
think it would be appropriate to have a claims handler or loss adjuster to have oversight of 
the claim. 
Ms L says L shouldnt be put in a position where it may have to litigate over a dispute about 
whether costs are reasonable; the policy provided full indemnity for legal costs and so they 
should simply be paid. The relevant policy terms did say L would be covered for 'all costs 
and expenses...which are incurred by the Insurer or by the Insured with the Insurers' written 
Consent So provided any costs have the insurers consent then they would be paid.
In this case, cover would not be provided by the insurer. But if the costs are agreed then 
they should be paid in full. Having a claims handler or loss adjuster in control of the claim 
would allow them to agree any costs, which would then be paid in full. And that would mean 
there would be no need for a costs assessment later on. 
Putting things right
I think that fair compensation should be as follows:
AJG should reimburse the reasonable legal costs L has already incurred in defending  
the claim made against it by Mr K, together with simple interest at 8% per year from 
the date L paid those costs to the date they are reimbursed.AJG should arrange for a specialist loss adjuster or claims handler to manage the 
claim and should pay for the claim in line with the terms of the insurance policy L had 
in place up to 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd to pay 
compensation to L as set out above up to a maximum of £160,000, together with interest.
If the amount to be paid is more than £160,000, I recommend that Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) 
Ltd pays L the balance.
This recommendation will not be part of my determination or award and Arthur J. Gallagher 
(UK) Ltd will not have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that L can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. L may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman