DRN-3301441
The complaint
Ms F and Mr F have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim for 
escape of water damage under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F and Mr Fs home was damaged by a water leak which they said had happened in April 
2020. They said that the shower had been left on slightly, causing water to go down the 
shower hose, onto the side of the bath and over the side and onto the floor. The water came 
through the ceiling causing damage to ceilings and walls downstairs and led to a cracked tile 
in the bathroom and some damage to the landing floor.
Ms F and Mr F reported the matter to AXA in February 2021. AXA appointed a surveyor who 
viewed the damage and provided a report. The surveyor stated that the mould beneath the 
floor showed that there had been more than one leak. AXA declined the claim and Ms F and 
Mr F therefore complained to AXA. It eventually responded and maintained its original 
stance. 
As Ms F and Mr F were unhappy with AXAs response they complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that although Ms F and Mr F were aware 
of the leak in April 2020, AXA wasnt made aware of it until February 2021. Our investigator 
sympathised regarding the reasons for this delay in reporting the matter, however she said 
that she couldnt hold AXA responsible for this. She wasnt persuaded that the damage was 
caused by a one-off leak in April 2020 and that no further damage had happened since then.
Our investigator noted that Ms F and Mr F put another layer of sealant around the bath, so 
agreed that theyd taken some action to try and prevent further damage. As the shower was 
still used on a limited basis however, she thought there was still the potential for further 
damage to have been caused after becoming aware that there was a problem. The 
investigator concluded that the claim was assessed and declined fairly by AXA based on the 
available evidence.
Ms F and Mr F remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter has been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider is whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
terms and conditions of the relevant buildings insurance policy to Ms F and Mr Fs claim.
The starting point for me to consider is the terms and conditions of the policy. In the 
introduction to the terms and under the heading Taking care of your property, it states;- 
You and your family must take all reasonable precautions to avoid injury, loss or damage 
and take all reasonable steps to safeguard all the property insured from loss or 
damageYou must maintain your property in a good state of repair, as not doing so could 
invalidate your insurance.
The policy cover includes; - Loss or damage resulting from escape of water. This includes 
Sudden and unexpected water leaking from or freezing in any washing machine, 
dishwasher, fridge, freezer or fixed domestic water, drainage or heating installation.
The general exclusions in the policy booklet include the following under the heading Gradual 
deterioration/maintenance;- Wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the 
atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, 
maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents
Ive looked carefully at all the evidence provided by both Ms F and Mr F and AXA. Turning 
first to the evidence provided by AXA, it bases its conclusions on the report of the surveyor 
appointed by AXA to look into the claim. 
The surveyors report states that, upon inspection, there has not been a one-off leak looking 
at the damage below and on the landing. The surveyor considered the crack in the 
bathroom tile to be historic and thought there was an issue with the mastic sealant. As to 
ceiling damage, the surveyor said that; - Upon inspection, there is damage to the ceiling. 
When you look closely this is not a one-off incident and been on going over a period of time. 
Overall, the surveyor considered that the damage was caused by an on going leak with no 
action to mitigate the loss.
AXA made further observations that the damage was consistent with an ongoing issue that 
was inadequately addressed, as opposed to a one-off incident. It also thought that the ceiling 
and coving staining appeared in multiple areas and that some damage was consistent with a 
pattern of plaster becoming wet and dry repeatedly. It also thought that a small area of 
flooring under the landing carpet was black and consistent with a long-term escape of water 
from the shower. It thought that addition of mastic sealant appeared recent and not 
professionally applied, suggesting awareness of an ongoing issue. 
AXA said that if action had been taken the first time the leak became obvious, it would have 
considered the resultant damage caused by the leak at this stage. It thought however that 
the report and photographs suggested this continued to happen and wasnt therefore a one-
off incident. It said that it made it clear that if there was proof of action taken to prevent the 
incident re-occurring, such as an invoice for repairs, it would reconsider at that stage. It 
concluded that apparent failure to address the leak allowed the damage to become worse.
Turning to the evidence of Ms F and Mr F, they stated that following the leak, theyd been 
extremely cautious about using the shower. They said it had been used only a handful of 
times and they always checked that the tap was turned fully off afterwards. Theyd put 
another layer of sealant around the edges of the bath and the screen to prevent further 
problems.
As to the delay between the incident and reporting to AXA, Ms F and Mr F said that they 
initially thought that the claim was covered by a separate contents insurance policy. They 
telephoned the relevant insurer, however it was only taking emergency calls due to the covid 
pandemic. They were also concerned about allowing a loss adjuster into their home as they 
were shielding during the pandemic. They contacted their contents insurer again in 2021 and 
were advised to contact AXA as their buildings insurance policy. 
As to AXAs position that the amount of mould beneath their landing carpet showed that 
there had been more than one leak. Ms F and Mr F didnt consider this to be the case. They 
considered that as the ceiling was white, they would have seen the water marks had there been further leaks. They were clear that water had only come through the ceiling once and 
didnt accept that further leaks occurred after the initial leak. 
Although the policy terms and conditions dont specifically refer to escape of water from a 
shower or bath appliance, AXA initially considered the claim and no doubt considered such 
appliances to be included in principle, being a domestic water installation and I agree that 
this would be a reasonable interpretation of the provisions.
The provisions state that damage caused by sudden and unexpected escape of water are 
covered. There are two conflicting views in this respect. I appreciate that Ms F and Mr F feel 
strongly that all the damage viewed by AXAs surveyor was caused during a single, sudden 
and unexpected incident. The surveyors report is thorough and details the damage, 
including a cracked bathroom tile, damaged chip board on the landing floor and water 
staining to downstairs ceilings, coving and walls. The surveyors report includes firm 
conclusions that the damage was consistent with an on-going escape of water.
Our investigator had concluded that there was potential for further damage to have occurred 
after April 2020 as the shower was still used on a limited basis. I appreciate that Ms F and 
Mr F had reasons for not immediately contacting AXA to report the incident in April 2020. 
Unfortunately, however, there is no photographic evidence of the visible damage at this time. 
In the circumstances, I can only consider the photographic evidence obtained by AXAs 
surveyor a year later.
This doesnt in itself prevent a claim however this does make it more difficult to be precise 
about the timing of the damage. The surveyors report doesnt specify whether damage may 
have taken place prior to or after April 2020. Its firm in concluding however that it isnt 
consistent with being a one-off incident
Where parties disagree about what happened, its my role to determine what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened on the available evidence, On the balance of probabilities, I 
accept that the damage doesnt appear to have occurred as a result of a single incident. The 
blackened area under the landing carpet, and the nature of the staining on the downstairs 
ceilings and walls indicates more than one incident of leaking and indicates gradual damage. 
This is excluded from cover under the policy terms and conditions.
I find the surveyors report to be persuasive also in this respect and is supported by the 
available photographs. The apparently recent sealant repair supports the view that the 
problem has indeed been an on-going problem.
In conclusion, I dont find that AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Ms F and 
Mr Fs claim. I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Ms F and Mr F, 
however its not damage which I can fairly and reasonably say is covered by the terms and 
conditions of their policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms F and Mr Fs complaint and I dont 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman