DRN-3632596
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc hasnt settled in full 
its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr and Mrs S, directors of E, have brought the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with West Bay. It operates a private 
members club.
On 18 March 2020 E made a claim to West Bay because it was temporarily closing its 
business for three days to have the premises cleaned following some reported cases of 
Covid-19. As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 
E couldnt reopen on 21 March as intended.
West Bay accepted the claim for the period from 18 to 20 March 2020 to allow for cleaning 
the premises. It said it wouldnt pay for their loss from 21 March 2020 as that loss would 
have been suffered anyway due to the lockdown.
Mr and Mrs S brought Es complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think E had shown its losses from 21 March 2020 were covered by its policy. 
E asked for an Ombudsmans decision. West Bay said it had made a commercial decision to 
accept thered been a manifestation of Covid-19 on the premises having regard to the 
potential cost of disputing the claim compared with the value of the business interruption loss 
for three days. Since E hadnt accepted its offer, West Bay considered it should be entitled to 
revisit the evidence of an alleged manifestation of Covid-19 at Es premises and dispute that 
there had been such a manifestation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Es business. 
The type of cover E is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy E took out. 
The cover I consider to be most relevant that is provided by the business interruption section 
of Es policy is for loss due to Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice 
or with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a 
notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the Premises up to the limit shown in the 
Schedule for any one loss.
For this part of the policy to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions 
placed on the business premises to have been the result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So Ive 
considered the information I have to decide whether I think its most likely a case of Covid-19 
manifested itself at Es premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 that manifested at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any 
insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that 
its suffered a loss its policy covers.
E provided the following information in support of its claim:

1. E had been informed on 18 March 2020 that two guests who attended events at the club 
four days earlier were then showing signs of Covid-19. However, those members did not 
wish to be identified to third parties.
2. Another couple had heard from others of another guest whod attended on 14 March 
2020 and been hospitalised with Covid-19 on 18 March. However, they were also 
unwilling to assist.
3. A guest whod attended on 13 March 2020 developed symptoms on 18 March 
and was believed to have tested positive on 20 March. He was willing to discuss 
with West Bay but only on a strictly private basis.
E clearly acted in the belief that some of its guests had been on its premises with 
Covid-19 as it took the decision to close its business for cleaning. However, I only have 
Es testimony to support this. I appreciate that the nature of Es business means that 
guests are likely to be reluctant to come forward and volunteer evidence. In this 
particular case, there is not enough evidence for me to conclude that it was more likely 
than not that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises.
Furthermore, based on Es testimony, these guests all seem to have developed symptoms 
after the date they were at the premises. I consider that the term manifesting as it is used in 
Es policy refers to someone having been diagnosed with the disease or displaying 
symptoms of the disease while on the premises. This interpretation is consistent with the 
courts findings in the FCA test case (The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch 
Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 and the related judgment in the court at first 
instance). I dont think it would be enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-
symptomatic individual to have caught the disease and been on the premises. 
This can be contrasted with other policies that require only that a disease has occurred. A 
disease may have occurred in a person prior to it manifesting. But Es policy requires the 
disease to manifest. So, I dont consider the requirements of policy wording have been met. And it follows that I 
dont consider West Bay acted unfairly or unreasonably when declining Es claim for 
business interruption losses from 21 March 2020 even though it had previously agreed to 
cover a short period of business interruption beforehand.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman