DRN-3786362
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly settled their claim on their buildings 
insurance policy.
References to Mr B or Mrs M, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of QIC involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to QIC.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs M had a leak from their shower which caused a hole to appear in the ceiling 
and leak on to the floor below. 
As Mr B had a buildings insurance policy with QIC he rang them about the leak. QIC told him 
to call a plumber to stop the leak. A plumber attended and said he would need to remove the 
shower unit to access the leak. The plumber said it was likely that the shower unit would 
break when it was removed, and it would then not be able to be put back in.
Mr B made another call to QIC to check if his policy covered the shower unit. QIC confirmed 
it would be covered. Based on this information Mr B confirmed with the plumber to go ahead 
with the removal. When the unit was removed it broke apart and could not be refitted.
QIC accepted the claim but declined to pay out for the costs of a replacement shower unit. It 
said because the plumber who attended to stop the leak had said the shower unit was in 
poor condition and poorly installed this caused its collapse. It said removal and refit of the 
shower unit would have been possible had it been in a good condition.
As Mr B and Mrs M were not happy with QIC, they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said QIC hadnt acted 
fairly and reasonably when declining the cost of a replacement shower unit as part of the 
claim. They said QIC had not shown why the policy terms about trace and access dont 
apply under the circumstances of this claim.
As QIC is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case to access and repair the leak, there was no alternative than to remove the 
shower unit.
I looked at the comments from the independent plumber who attended to trace the leak. He 
said; to fully investigate and repair the pipework the shower enclosure would need 
removing. Given the age, design existing installation methods and condition this would not 
be possible without damaging the enclosure.
I saw that because the plumber said the shower unit may be damaged when it was removed 
Mr B contacted QIC, as advised, to check if the shower unit would be covered. 
I saw evidence that during this call Mr B was reassured by QIC a number of times that 
replacement of the shower unit was covered if it was damaged when being removed. There 
was no mention of any policy exclusions that may apply that would mean replacement of the 
shower unit may not be declined at a later date. 
QIC said that the advice given during this call was correct at the time. But due to the poor 
condition, age, and installation of the shower this damage was not validated.  
I saw that the plumber tried to remove the shower enclosure without damaging it, but it 
started to collapse, and the roof cracked. It was dismantled. 
I have seen that QIC have settled for removal and refit of the shower unit but not for a 
replacement shower unit. QIC said the shower unit was not covered because it is satisfied 
that the shower unit was damaged from trace and access works due to the condition, age 
and installation and therefore, a replacement shower unit is not covered by the policy.
QICs building services manager said removal and refit of the shower unit would be possible 
if it was in good condition. However it did not go out and inspect the shower unit itself, so I 
do not think it can say with certainty that its own plumber could have removed it without 
damage, notwithstanding its condition.
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. In the buildings cover section page 18 it 
says:
Trace and access (finding the problem)
We will also pay up to £10,000 per incident for reasonable and necessary costs to remove 
any part of the building to find the source of damage to your home caused by:
a. water escaping from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus or pipes; or
b. oil escaping from any fixed oil-fired heating installation, apparatus or pipes.
We will also pay to make good any damage to the building after the leak has been fixed, as 
long as this cost is covered by the £10,000 limit referred to above.
I looked at the policy and could not find any reference to any exclusions that apply to the 
make good any damage term. And QIC did not mention potential exclusions to Mr B when 
he asked if his policy covered a replacement shower unit.
I dont agree with QIC that it is not covered under the terms of the policy. I think if the terms 
regarding trace and access are applied to the circumstances of this claim, the shower unit is 
covered under the make good any damage to the building after the leak has been fixed term. 
I do not think QIC has acted fairly by not covering for the replacement shower unit. I think a 
replacement shower unit is a reasonable and necessary cost in the circumstances of this 
claim.
Therefore, I uphold Mr B and Mrs Ms complaint and require QIC to pay for the cost of a 
replacement shower unit on receipt of a valid invoice. As the cost for installation of a new 
shower unit was included in the settlement already paid to them, I do not require it to pay 
anything further for installation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr B and Mrs M the cost of the new shower unit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman