DRN-3403496
The complaint
Ms T, Miss W and Mr W make a complaint that Union Reiseversicherung AG havent paid a 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W, Ms T and Miss W were due to go on holiday on 26 March 2020. Mr W has made a 
complaint on behalf of his family and so Ill mainly refer to him in my decision. 
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic and on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. The following day their holiday was 
cancelled. Mr W claimed on his travel insurance policy for the costs he was unable to 
recover from the travel provider. URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no 
cover under the policy for cancellation due to Covid-19. Unhappy, Mr W complained to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think that 
URV had made it sufficiently clear in the policy documents that there would no cover if the 
FCDO advised against all but essential travel, but also no cover for cancellation. She 
thought that if this had been made clear Mr W was likely to have taken out a different policy. 
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the 
policy terms were clear. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The policy terms and conditions say, on page nine: 
What is covered:
We will indemnify you up to the amount stated in the schedule of cover for:
(a) unused charges associated with your trip that are non refundable and which were
incurred before your departure date if you have to cancel your trip, or
(b) the extra cost of a one way airfare of a standard no greater than the class of 
journey on the outward journey or the applicable fee charged by the airline to change 
your scheduled return date, and the unused non-refundable prepaid accommodation 
costs and other land arrangements following curtailment of your trip as a result of any 
of the circumstances below:
1. Your death, accidental bodily injury or illness, or that of a close relative or a friend
with whom you have arranged to travel or stay, or of a close business associate.
2. You or any person with whom you have arranged to travel or stay being subject to
compulsory quarantine or being summoned for Jury Service as a witness in a Court
of Law or for Military Service during the period of insurance.
3. Your redundancy
4. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or your
presence being required by the police following burglary
5. Cancellation or interruption of scheduled public transport consequent upon hijack
occurring during the period of the trip... 
And there is a general exclusion for: 
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from You travelling against British Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice or where it is deemed unsafe for You to travel. 
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation  
section of the policy because: 
Mr W cancelled the trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr W had travelled abroad hed 
have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in 
FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr W.   
Mr W would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr W and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr W would have purchased the policy if he had realised 
that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after hed 
bought the policy. I think its more likely hed have chosen to take out an alternative 
policy which offered cover for changes in FCDO advice and that such policies were 
commonly available at the time this policy was purchased.  
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Ms T, Miss W and Mr Ws complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and 
direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T, Miss W and 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman