DRN-4033883
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made in 
2017 and issues she has continued to have with damage to her home. 
Mrs R made a claim for an escape of water under her home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2017 Mrs R made a claim to her insurer UKI for an escape of water. UKI arranged for Mrs 
R to move into alternative accommodation, for the property to be dried out and carried out 
repairs. UKI wasnt able to source the cause of the leak. Mrs R believed it came from a 
neighbours property.
In 2019 Mrs R contacted UKI again and in 2021 due to ongoing damage as the leak 
reoccurred. UKI advised Mrs R to contact her then insurer. But having investigated things, 
the then insurer declined the claim and referred Mrs R back to UKI. On receipt of a further 
report, UKI accepted that it should have provided more assistance to Mrs R in 2019 and 
2021. It agreed to meet the costs to repair Mrs Rs home and paid her compensation of 
£550. 
Mrs R didnt think the compensation UKI paid was enough to reflect the distress, worry and 
upset shed been caused during this time. 
Our Investigator thought UKI should increase the compensation it paid to £1,000. She 
considered the impact the ongoing issues had on Mrs R and that this would have been much 
less had UKI properly dealt with things when Mrs R contacted it in 2019. 
UKI didnt agree. It believes the compensation it has paid is fair. 
Mrs R provided a letter from her GP which we shared with UKI, describing the impact the 
leak into Mrs Rs home and the ongoing issues has had on her wellbeing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear that Mrs R looked for assistance from UKI in 2019 because the damage that 
had been originally caused was reappearing in the same areas of her home. I understand 
that the neighbouring property was the cause of the water ingress, and the water supply was 
switched off for a time while the property was unoccupied. So when UKI carried out the first 
set of repairs, the property dried successfully and Mrs R moved back in from alternative 
accommodation. 
However, it seems when new tenants occupied next door and the water supply was switched 
back on, the damp issues reoccurred. 
Mrs R has spent three years in contact with her then insurer and UKI looking for a resolution. 
UKI accepts that it failed to act properly in 2019. I think if it had properly reconsidered Mrs 
Rs claim then, the impact of having to deal with an insurance claim again would have been 
much less than it was. 
Some of the cause of the upset and distress is outside of UKIs control. But UKI was 
prompted to address Mrs Rs concerns after her current insurer provided a report confirming 
the cause of damage as being the same as in 2017 to UKI. UKI instructed a specialist to visit 
Mrs Rs property and in November 2022, findings revealed long term water damage from 
2017, which UKI has agreed to meet the costs to have repaired. 
UKI has offered to pay Mrs R £550 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I dont think this is enough to reflect the inconvenience and length of time it has 
taken - since 2019 - to properly deal with Mrs Rs concerns that there was ongoing damage 
related to her original claim. 
In line with similar awards which we give, I think a fairer compensation award is £1,000. Due 
to the time that has passed, UKI says call recordings are no longer available to assess what 
was discussed between Mrs R and UKI in 2019. Nevertheless, I think its clear from Mrs Rs 
account and the medical evidence provided that the impact of prolonged dealings with the 
insurers has caused significant distress and worry over a considerable period of time and 
had an impact on Mrs Rs physical and mental health. Had UKI fairly dealt with her concerns 
in 2019, I think this would have reduced the impact the claim has had on her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R 
£1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman