DRN-4266225
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Dobson & Hodge Limited (D&H), 
to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with British Steel (BSPS) 
to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In August 2016 Mr P got in touch with D&H to discuss his pension. He was 54 at the time 
and was struggling physically to be in a manual job. He was considering early retirement and 
wanted to discuss his options. He said he needed around £12,000 retirement income per 
year and thought he would probably spend more in earlier years and reduce income later on. 
He said he was unconcerned if his pension was exhausted by age 75.
D&H were concerned that Mr P underestimated his income needs and said in their suitability 
report that from an income and investment risk aspect their advice would be to stay in the 
scheme and his stance was a dangerous one to take. They noted the risk of Mr P 
exhausting his funds. However, on the basis that Mr P said retiring at 55 was more important 
than long term income security, they recommended him to transfer his DB benefits.
In 2023, Mr P complained about the advice he was given. He said his adviser who had since 
moved to a different firm and taken him on as a client told him in 2022 about a six year 
deadline to complain. He then contacted professional representatives who lodged a 
complaint on his behalf.
D&H said Mr P had complained too late. They say he would have received a letter in 2022 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explaining about the six-year time limit and that 
action needed to be taken. They also pointed to the fact that there would have been lots of 
publicity from 2017 onwards about there being concerns surrounding British Steel workers 
being advised to transfer their DB pensions. So Mr P should have been aware of these 
issues earlier.
Mr P said he never received any letters from the FCA as he had been moving around a lot 
since 2017. He also said he left the steel industry in 2017 and didnt keep in contact with ex-
colleagues. He said he wasnt using the internet a lot and he wasnt aware of the publicity 
around the BSPS pension transfers.
Our investigator thought the complaint had been made in time. D&H disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman decision. 
I considered the complaint and explained to D&H that I thought the complaint had been 
made in time and that I thought it should be upheld. D&H disagreed but offered to carry out a 
loss calculation for Mr P.
I asked Mr Ps representatives for information that D&H required to carry out the calculation 
which was duly provided. Regrettably, D&H then changed their mind and provided further 
arguments as to why the complaint had been brought too late and why it should not be 
upheld.
For this reason I will now issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered D&Hs and their solicitors further comments, however my decision remains 
that I can consider Mr Ps complaint and that it should be upheld. Ill explain my reasons 
below:
jurisdiction
The regulator has set rules for this service about when we can and cant consider 
complaints, the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. They are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook.
DISP 2.8.2 (2) R states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought to 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R or 
DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances,
There is no dispute that Mr P complained outside the six-year time limit, so the key is 
whether Mr P was aware or ought to have been reasonably aware that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained. Mr P complained to D&H on 16 
February 2023, so for this complaint to be time-barred I need to be satisfied that he was 
aware or ought to reasonably have been aware that he had cause for complaint before 16 
February 2020.
The first letter sent directly to members by the FCA which told them to ask themselves 
certain questions about the advice they received and encouraged them to complain if they 
was sent in June 2020, so after 16th February 2020. There was a more urgent letter in 2022, which was directed in particular at members who had transferred in 2016 and who were 
approaching the six-year time limit deadline. However, again this was after February 2020. 
So even if Mr P received those communications, he complained less tnen three years after 
these letters were sent.
I'm not aware of any direct letters to members before that which would have triggered 
awareness that something might be wrong with the advice they had been given. D&Hs own 
files show that over the relevant years Mr P was for extended periods only contactable by 
email or phone and that he had issues with receiving post where he resided. I also note that 
any letters sent by the FCA were sent to addresses sourced by the trustees of the BSPS. 
And once Mr P had transferred away from the BSPS and left employment there was no 
reason for them to have an up-to-date address for Mr P. For the 2022 letter addresses were 
sourced from advisers, but as I said this letter was sent within the three-year time limit, so is 
irrelevant.
Before these letters were sent there was information on the FCA website and there would 
have been some reports in the media and discussions on social media, however I've taken 
into account that Mr P left British Steel and was living a somewhat nomadic lifestyle. He says 
he only had minimal access to the internet and media which I find persuasive given his living 
situation. And as he had stopped working, I dont think its likely he would have been 
exposed to ongoing discussions between members who were still working in the steel 
industry, their unions and solicitors and other individuals who were discussing the 
problematic nature of transfers between 2018 and 2020. 
Even if he saw some news about British Steel in the media, he would have reasonably 
needed to be aware that there might be something wrong with the advice given to him in his 
particular circumstances. The letter sent by the FCA in 2020 was sent in acknowledgement 
that not everyone would be able to recognise that the advice they received might have been 
unsuitable in their particular circumstances.
Overall, I'm not satisfied Mr P was aware or ought to have reasonably aware he had cause 
for complaint before February 2020. 
Merits
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D&Hs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer. 
COBS 19.1.6G sets out that: When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Its clear from the documents D&H provided from the time of the advice that a transfer wasnt 
financially viable for Mr P. By transferring he would end up with significantly lower benefits 
than he could have had from the DB scheme and there was a real risk that Mr P could 
exhaust his funds relatively early into retirement. He had 37 years of service in the BSPS 
and this was his only retirement provision other than the state pension he would receive at 
67 and a small defined contribution pension he had just started through his employer. He 
had a relatively low attitude to risk and a low capacity for loss.
D&H were aware of this and I can see they had their own concerns including whether Mr Ps 
income requirements were realistic and that he was taking a risk with his main pension 
income. 
Looking at it objectively, the advice to transfer his benefits was not in his best interest. 
Nonetheless, D&H recommended Mr P to transfer his BSPS pension into a drawdown plan.  
I recognise that Mr P was struggling with the physical nature of his job and that he said he 
couldnt keep working in his role until normal retirement age of 65. And I can see he 
indicated that his short-term objectives of retiring early were more important to him at the 
time than long-term retirement security. I also appreciate that D&H told Mr P about some of 
the benefits of the DB pension and warned him about the risks of transferring. I also want to 
be clear that I dont think D&H persuaded Mr P in any way to transfer his pension.
However, D&H wasnt there to simply execute what Mr P wanted. It was the adviser's 
obligation to advise him about what was in his best interest considering the whole of his
retirement. Whilst I can see they gave some warnings about the risks, they still ended up 
recommending a transfer which was not suitable for him. Risk warnings dont make an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable. And they ultimately justified the transfer by saying that 
Mr P couldnt meet his early retirement objective by staying in the BSPS. They also 
mentioned that a transfer later on might not be possible if the BSPS fell into the PPF.
Mr P didn't have the necessary capacity for loss for a transfer and given his inexperience 
and unsubstantiated view that he would probably not need any funds by the time he was in 
his mid-seventies and was happy to spend his funds early, D&H should have clearly advised 
against a transfer. 
I then considered what Mr P likely would have done if D&H had given suitable advice, i.e. 
advised against a transfer. I dont deny that Mr P was keen on retiring early and certainly  
didnt want to work in his current role until 65. However, I dont think it follows that he would 
have ignored clear advice against a transfer and that he wouldnt have listened to a robust 
message that he couldnt reasonably afford to retire at 55.
D&H essentially advised that a transfer was the only way for him to retire at 55 and although 
they mention the risk of exhausting his funds, they said they modelled various levels and 
thought his funds shouldnt run out. The suitability report briefly mentions that continued 
work was discussed and discounted by Mr P. However, I havent seen persuasive evidence 
that this was discussed in a meaningful way, including the possibility of working a couple 
more years in his current job or drawing DB income earlier and supplementing his income 
with a physically less demanding job or going part-time.By recommending the transfer D&H in my view gave the impression that Mr Ps objectives 
justified the transfer. And I dont agree this was the case. I think if they had given him clear 
advice not to transfer then on the balance of probabilities Mr P would have listened.
I recognise that once Mr P quit his job the following year and started drawing more income 
than he originally said he would need, the subject of part-time work and reducing 
withdrawals was discussed again. And notes from the time show that Mr P did not pay much 
attention to D&H concerns and wanted to spend the money as he saw fit and wasnt ready to 
take on other work.
However, at that point he had already retired and had access to a pension fund. He had 
made it clear from the start that he wasnt particularly worried about exhausting his fund. 
D&H had given him these warnings at the time of advice, but had still recommended that this 
is what he should do. And he was never told he had to work again. It was him who said he 
might supplement his income in future with some odd jobs. So the fact that he then didnt 
want to be restricted and didnt want to work again in the short-term isnt surprising in my 
view.
Im not persuaded, however, that this means if he had been told a year earlier that he 
couldnt afford to retire early, taking benefits would not be in his best interest and that if he 
continued working-even if it was part-time-he could still retire early, but with a guaranteed 
income, that he would have ignored this advice. 
In summary, I remain of the view that D&H gave unsuitable advice and if they had advised 
against a transfer and properly discussed alternatives that still offered the option of early 
retirement, Mr P would have followed that advice and remained in the BSPS.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved to the PPF. 
I say this because if he had decided to take BSPS benefits before the Time to Choose 
exercise in autumn 2017 I think he would have likely not received the relevant letters given 
the problems with his postal correspondence and so would have ended up automatically in 
the PPF. If he had still be working by this point I think he would have chosen the PPF as it 
had lower early retirement reductions and would have allowed for higher tax-free cash which 
I think would have been the most attractive option for Mr P. 
I dont know exactly what Mr P would have done if he had remained in the BSPS. He might 
have retired at 55 and supported himself through part-time or different work or he might have 
deferred retirement for maybe a couple of years. 
Im satisfied he wouldnt have deferred taking his DB benefits for a significant period given 
he was so adamant he didnt want to work for much longer. So in the circumstances I think 
assuming a retirement age of 55 (at the same time he stated drawing benefits from his 
personal pension) is reasonable in the circumstances.
D&H must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out 
in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.D&H should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress.
A copy of the BSPS calculator output plus supporting evidence should be sent to Mr P and 
the Financial Ombudsman upon completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, D&H should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
-their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr P accepts D&Hs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be 
augmented, given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, Mr P may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to certain award limits plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I 
think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than the applicable limit I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Dobson & Hodge Limited should pay Mr P 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £190,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £190,000 which might not be the case here, I recommend that Dobson & Hodge 
Limited pays Mr P the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Dobson & Hodge Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman