DRN-4198326
The complaint
Mr S complains about the delays U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has made in repairing his car 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an incident and UKI took his car for repairs. There were delays in the 
repairs and rectification work was required. UKI asked Mr S to make some unrelated repairs 
so that the car was roadworthy, which he did. UKI paid Mr S £1,000 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by it not progressing the claim and delaying repairs. 
UKI declined to make further repairs as it said they were caused by wear and tear. Mr S 
thought his car had deteriorated whilst waiting for repairs to be carried out. He was also 
unhappy that UKI wanted to end his car hire and it hadnt recovered his policy excess.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had considered engineering evidence to show that the further repairs needed were due to 
wear and tear before the accident and some had been highlighted on a previous MOT. She 
thought UKIs payment of £1,000 compensation for the delays was fair and reasonable. She 
also thought UKI had reasonably agreed to extend the hire until the claim was resolved. 
Mr S replied that he thought UKIs poor initial repairs, and the delays had caused the 
deterioration of his car since its last MOT. He said the assessors report was done seven 
months after the accident. He said the car was still pulling to the left and dash warning lights 
were lit. He said UKI had done a second wheel alignment, but this hadnt resolved the 
steering issue. He was now left with an unroadworthy car that will cost £3,500 to repair. Mr S 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated with the delays in repairing his car. And I think he 
could reasonably have expected his car to be fully repaired the first time it was taken for 
repairs. Mr S told us that after seven months, when he complained to UKI, the car had been 
assessed and needed significant rectification. 
I can see that, after some delays, UKIs engineer reviewed the issues raised and it then 
agreed that it was responsible for some rectification  the paintwork, the steering and the 
warning lights. 
It said these had been caused by its repair, and it paid Mr S £1,000 compensation for the 
delay. But UKI said the other issues werent related to the claim or the delay. It said the 
remaining issues were caused by wear and tear. 
But Mr S disagreed. He said these issues hadnt been picked up in a MOT a month before 
the accident. And he thought they were due to the excessive delays in making repairs. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The evidence that UKI had to rely on was a garages assessment of the car, supported by a 
video, and its own senior engineers review of this and Mr Ss concerns. UKI said the 
garages evidence showed that the alleged areas of further damage had been present for 
some time prior to the accident and wouldnt have developed in the time it had taken for 
repairs to be made. It accepted that the delays may have contributed to the corrosion 
present, but this would have needed repair in any case. 
UKI invited Mr S to provide expert engineering evidence to support his stance. But I cant 
see that he has done this. And so I think UKI has reasonably considered the evidence 
available and so justified its decision not to pay for all the repairs Mr S says are needed. 
But it is responsible for rectifying those areas that its engineers have agreed are due to its 
repairs. And I can see that UKI accepts that it still needs to rectify the steering issues Mr S 
says are still not resolved. Mr S said the car has had two wheel alignments. But, from UKIs 
evidence, I cant see that the second one was carried out. And its for Mr S to book the car in 
with the repairer at his convenience.
It has taken some time for UKI to deal with Mr Ss repairs. He was kept mobile during this 
time, so I cant say that UKI is responsible for any loss of use. His car has passed its MOT 
and so it is now roadworthy. And I think UKIs offer of £1,000 compensation for the delays is 
in keeping with our published guidance where there have been significant avoidable delays 
in the claim, and so Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable.
Mr S wanted his policy excess refunded. UKI says it is still waiting for liability to be agreed 
with the other insurer. I can see that it has reasonably progressed this and I cant hold it 
responsible for the other insurers delays. When liability is settled, then UKI will be able to 
look to refund Mr Ss policy excess.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman