DRN-4140031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the way that AWP P&C SA has settled a cancellation claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs D were due to go abroad on holiday in September 2022. Unfortunately, Mrs D 
was diagnosed with a serious illness and was unable to travel. Mr D says he contacted AWP 
to discuss potential options. He says that during the call, AWP told him that if the cost of 
rebooking the trip was lower than the cost of cancellation, then AWP would cover any 
amendment costs he and Mrs D incurred.
So Mr and Mrs D say that on that basis, they rebooked their holiday for the following year, 
travelling in September 2023. Theyd been able to obtain refunds for some elements of their 
trip and theyd been given credit vouchers for other elements of it. They were unable to 
recover around £348.90 of their original booking costs. Mr and Mrs D learned that the costs 
of rebooking their trip in September 2023 would cost significantly more than their original 
holiday. The original trip had cost around £9930. But the cost of rebooking the trip was 
around £14,700  an increase of over £5050. So they made a claim on their policy for 
additional rebooking costs theyd incur.
AWP considered Mr and Mrs Ds claim in line with the cancellation section of the policy. It 
settled their unrecoverable costs of £348.90, less the policy excess. However, it felt Mr and 
Mrs D had recovered the majority of their trip costs from their holiday providers. It 
acknowledged that in some circumstances, it might cover the costs of an amendment fee to 
rebook a holiday, if the fee was less than AWPs liability for a cancellation claim would be. In 
this case though, it considered that the cost of amending Mr and Mrs Ds holiday was 
substantially more than its liability under the cancellation section of the policy. So it didnt 
agree to pay anything more.  
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that theyd relied on Mr Ds initial conversation with AWP when 
deciding whether to cancel or rebook their trip. They told us that if theyd known AWP 
wouldnt pay their additional costs of amending the trip, they wouldve cancelled the holiday 
and wouldve been entitled to a full refund of their booking costs under the policy terms. So 
they felt theyd lost out as a result of the information theyd been given by AWP.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. AWP hadnt been 
able to provide a copy of the call between Mr D and its claims team. But it accepted that Mr 
D likely had been told that it would cover an amendment fee if this was less than its liability 
under the cancellation section of the policy. So while the investigator couldnt listen to 
exactly what was said, he felt it was most likely that Mr D had been told that AWP would pay 
an amendment fee if it was lower than the cost of cancelling a trip.
However, the investigator felt that even if Mr D had been given this information, it didnt 
mean that AWP needed to pay Mr and Mrs Ds rebooking costs. Thats because the policy 
terms stated that AWP wouldnt pay any costs which were recoverable from the trip 
providers. In this case, Mr and Mrs D had been able to recover £9964.76 of their original trip 
costs of around £9930 from their providers, in the form of credit vouchers and refunds. And 
AWP had settled Mr and Mrs Ds irrecoverable costs in line with the policy terms. So he 
concluded that even if Mr and Mrs D had chosen to cancel their trip in 2022 rather than 
rebook it, AWPs liability wouldve been limited to their irrecoverable costs of £348.90, which 
were less than the cost of rebooking the trip. On that basis, he felt AWP had settled the 
claim fairly.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. In brief, they said that had they cancelled the trip in 2022, they 
would have received nothing, as the cancellation was so close to the departure date. Their 
options had been to cancel and receive nothing or receive a credit voucher. They were very 
frustrated that AWP couldnt provide copies of the call recording(s), as Mr D said hed been 
very clear with AWP what his plans were. They were now in the situation where they have a 
large bill to pay to try and recover the holiday or write it off the trip as a loss.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think AWP has settled 
their claim fairly and Ill explain why.
First, I was sorry to hear of the circumstances which led to Mr and Mrs Ds claim and I dont 
doubt how upsetting and worrying it was when Mrs D was diagnosed with a serious illness. I 
do hope shes made a good recovery.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the specific circumstances of their claim, to decide 
whether AWP treated them fairly.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs D feel strongly that AWP led them to believe that their rebooking 
fees would be covered if these costs were less than the cost of cancelling the trip. Theyve 
told us that this conversation (amongst others) took place prior to their decision to rebook the 
holiday and accept credit vouchers for some elements of their original booking. 
Unfortunately, AWP doesnt have a record of this conversation (and its claims notes dont 
include records of these discussions either), so I cant know exactly what was said or how 
things were explained. AWP accepts though that in some circumstances, if the cost of 
amending a holiday is less than the cost of cancelling it, it will pay the amendment fee. So it 
acknowledges that its likely Mr D was given this information. 
However, it doesnt follow that AWP will necessarily be liable for amendment fees in all 
circumstances. I think that AWPs likely intention in situations such as these is to take into 
account what its contractual liability would be if a policyholders pre-booked trip was 
cancelled - taking into account the specific circumstances of the claim - and to compare that 
liability with the cost of amending the trip to new dates. If the amendment cost is lower than 
the settlement AWP would pay in the event of cancellation, AWP says it will cover the 
amendment fee.
In this case, however, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that the costs of rebooking Mr and Mrs Ds holiday were less than AWPs liability under the cancellation 
section of the policy and Ill explore this further.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and 
Mrs Ds contract with AWP. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured 
events it covers for unused costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One 
of these insured events is a policyholders illness. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ds holiday was cancelled as a result of Mrs 
D being diagnosed with a serious illness. But the policy also includes a list of things that 
AWP doesnt cover. One of these states that AWP doesnt cover:
Any unused or additional costs incurred by you recoverable from:
a) The providers of the accommodation, their booking agents, a travel agent or 
another compensation scheme.
b) The providers of the transportation, their booking agents, a travel agent or another 
compensation scheme such as ABTA  The Travel Association or Air Travel 
Organisers Licensing (ATOL).
I think the policy wording makes it clear that AWP doesnt cover costs which can be 
recovered from, amongst other sources, a policyholders holiday providers. Most, if not all, 
policies require a policyholder to try and recover their costs before the insurer will agree to 
settle a claim. In this case, Mr and Mrs D were able to recover £9664.76 of their original 
booking costs of £9932, in the form of credit vouchers and refunds. So I think it was fair for 
AWP to conclude that Mr and Mrs D hadnt suffered financial losses for these bookings when 
it assessed the claim, because the credit vouchers and refunds covered 97% of the value of 
their trip. Even if Mr and Mrs D had made a cancellation claim at that point then, AWP 
wouldnt have needed to include their recovered costs in any settlement. This means that 
AWPs contractual liability was limited to the difference between their original trip costs and 
the amounts theyd been able to get back.
Mr and Mrs D say that their providers only agreed to offer credit vouchers because of their 
specific circumstances and that had they cancelled the trip, they would have been liable for 
the cancellation fees which would usually apply. Theyve provided an email which says that 
had they cancelled their flights, they wouldve been liable to pay 60% of their flight costs. So 
they feel their actual losses wouldve been substantially higher had they opted to cancel the 
trip rather than accept the credit vouchers. However, I think AWP was entitled to assess the 
claim in line with Mr and Mrs Ds actual financial losses, rather than their potential losses. As 
such, I find it was fair for AWP to calculate its liability by taking into account the credit 
vouchers and refunds Mr and Mrs D received.
I think that had Mr and Mrs Ds rebooking fees been less than AWPs contractual liability 
under the terms of the policy, AWP would most likely have met their rebooking costs. But 
given the refunds and credit vouchers they received, its simply the case that Mr and Mrs Ds 
actual cancellation losses were substantially less than their rebooking costs. So I think AWP 
acted reasonably when it settled Mr and Mrs Ds claim under the cancellation provisions, 
rather than agreeing to pay their rebooking fees. 
It's clear that Mr and Mrs D do need to pay a significant further amount to take their 
rebooked holiday later this year and I sympathise with their position. However, I need to bear 
in mind that the policy simply doesnt cover the additional rebooking costs a policyholder 
incurs if the price of a holiday increases over time. So I dont think I could fairly or reasonably 
tell AWP to pay these costs outside of the contract terms.So, as Ive set out above, I think AWP has calculated settlement fairly and reasonably. So 
Im not directing it to pay anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman