DRN-2892039
The complaint
Ms D has complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim under her travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms D booked a trip to South America in May 2019. She bought a Dragoman single trip 
travel insurance policy in January 2020, underwritten by AWP to cover her trip dates of 2 
March to 10 June 2020 travelling across South America. She started her trip as planned. 
Whilst Ms D was abroad, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential international travel due to Covid-19 from 17 March 2020. As a result, Ms D was 
unable to continue to the next stop in her trip and returned to the UK on 20 March 2020. 
Ms D made a claim for curtailment, but this was declined on the basis that her circumstances 
werent covered by her policy. Ms D complained to AWP. But unhappy with its response, she 
referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it was fair or reasonable for AWP 
to decline Ms Ds claim. AWP disagreed and in summary, made the following comments: 
Insurance will not cover every eventuality and it is impossible to list every single 
exclusion. The IPID and policy documents clearly list the events which are covered 
and its the customers responsibility to ensure the policy meets their needs and if 
not, there is a 14-day cancellation period in place. 
Ms D might want to contact her travel provider to see if theyre able to refund any of 
her unused trip.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator has identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documents
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 2 under the heading Where am I covered it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions
On page 1 of the terms and conditions, under the heading important, it says:
it is therefore important for you to read this policy (paying particular attention to 
the terms and conditions and exclusions) and ensure that your chosen policy meets 
all of your requirements
Page 13 and 14 of the policy terms and conditions set out the general exclusions:
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for 
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection 
withYou travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice 
unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against all travel or all but essential travel, unless agreed 
by or on behalf of the insurer.
Page 18 sets out the policy cancellation or curtailment terms in section D and the 
circumstances in which cover is provided. It says:
What you are covered for
Up to £5,000
Should you reasonably have to cancel the projected trip before commencement or 
curtail it before completion as a result of:
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of 
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2 The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative,
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey 
destination, or
c a dependant business partner; of you or your travelling companion which 
necessitates the presence of the person concerned. 
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request 
of an emergency service requires your presence.
Under the section What you are not covered for, there is no exclusion relating to FCO 
advice.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to decline the claim? 
I need to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Ds 
complaint. In doing so, Ive had regard to the industry rules and guidance, as well as to the 
relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015). 
I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy because: 
Ms D curtailed her trip because the FCO advised against all but essential travel to the destination she was already visiting. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions Ive outlined above mean that if Ms D had remained abroad, she 
wouldnt have followed FCO advice. So, she wouldnt have been covered by the 
policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Ms D.   
Ms D would have needed to read and cross-reference the full policy terms and 
conditions in order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, 
I dont think that this information was brought to her attention in a prominent and 
transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made 
sufficiently clear.
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ms D and 
AWP. I think its unlikely that Ms D would have purchased the policy if she realised 
that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed after shed 
bought the policy. 
AWP has raised the following points:
Insurance will not cover every eventuality and it is impossible to list every single 
exclusion. The IPID and policy documents clearly list the events which are covered 
and its the customers responsibility to ensure the policy meets their needs and if 
not, there is a 14-day cancellation period in place. 
I accept that insurance will not cover every eventuality. But for the reasons explained above, 
I dont agree that the IPID and policy documents in this case clearly set out that Ms D 
wouldnt be covered for curtailment due to a change in FCO guidance. 
 
Ms D might want to contact her travel provider to see if theyre able to refund any of 
her unused trip.
Ms D has already provided confirmation from her travel provider that no refund is due once 
the trip has started. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to treat the 
claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. AWP P&C SA should therefore 
assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman