DRN-2004301
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr M are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their accidental damage 
claim. They said AXA treated them unfairly when it said it couldnt accept the claim due to 
the inconsistent account Mr M gave about how the damage occurred. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He acknowledged that following an 
accident Mr M has been diagnosed with a mental health condition. But he didnt feel AXA 
could reasonably have been aware that Mr M wasnt able to confirm how the damage 
occurred and from listening to the calls he didnt think Mr M sounded confused. 
Mrs H and Mr M disagreed. Mrs H said she was the one who was present when the damage 
occurred, so it wasnt fair that AXA was relying on Mr Ms account of what happened. And as 
he was currently recovering from an accident, he sometimes has difficulties with memory 
loss and confusion.  
I reviewed the case and wrote to AXA asking it to reconsider the claim on the grounds it 
hadnt spoken to Mrs H who witnessed the damage and that I was satisfied Mr M could 
sometimes make mistakes with his memory. 
AXA didnt agree. It felt Mr M couldve made it aware that he sometimes has issues with his 
memory loss. It said the damage to the sink and toilet couldnt have happened the way Mr M 
described, so it now had no way of knowing which version of the events was true. And it 
wasnt satisfied the different events Mr M described could be attributed to his memory loss. 
Mrs H and Mr M agreed. They said they had now replaced the damaged sink and toilet but 
had to get a new floor for the bathroom as the new toilet is smaller. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
The policy covers Mr M & Mrs H for a number of unforeseen events (or, perils) of which 
accidental damage is one. I agree that damage has occurred. But in order for the event to be 
covered the loss must be unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden and 
external means'  in other words that its happened by chance rather than intention. The 
inconsistent account that Mr M has given AXA has led it to conclude that he didnt present 
this claim honestly (as required by the fraud condition) and caused it to question what 
actually happened here.
Having listened to the calls, Im not satisfied Mr M has made a statement or claim knowing 
that its false in relation to how the damage happened. I believe he says that he wasnt in the 
bathroom at the time the damage occurred, and he is just telling AXA what he thinks 
happened from a recollection of the conversations he had with Mrs H. I appreciate the events were inconsistent. So, Ive also taken into account Mr Ms current 
health and the information about the accident he had which Mrs H has supplied. Having 
done so, I can understand why he didnt make AXA aware of the difficulties he sometimes 
has, why he doesnt always communicate clearly enough and that he can suffer from 
confusion and memory loss. Its not easy to deal with mental health issues or being upfront 
about the effect they can have. He also incorrectly told AXA the cabinet is above the sink - 
when its actually above the toilet in his own bathroom. So, I believe this shows that he 
sometimes makes mistakes. And Im satisfied thats whats happened here.
Im satisfied Mr M was generally and honestly trying to make a claim on an event he didnt 
witness. So, I dont think AXA has treated them fairly here. 
Putting things right
I believe AXA should reconsider this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. Ive considered whether AXA should also pay Mrs H and Mr M for the trouble and 
upset caused. I can understand why AXA felt the events were inconsistent, but I think it 
couldve done more to speak to the person who witnessed the event. Given Mr Ms medical 
condition and that Mrs H was dealing with personal issues at the time I think some trouble 
and upset should be paid here. I believe £200 to be a fair amount considering the above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions and pay Mrs H and Mr M £200 for the 
trouble and upset this has caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman