DRN-3733937
The complaint
Mr J complains that Clear Score Technology Limited allowed a fraudulent account to be set 
up in his name. 
What happened
Clear Score has advised someone set up an account with it in Mr Js name. Clear Score 
says the individual provided Mr Js personal information and details as part of the account 
opening process and that it asked them security questions with a view to verifying the 
identity before proceeding. The information provided was verified by Clear Score using 
publicly available information and the account was approved. 
Mr J contacted Clear Score in November 2021 and it reviewed the account. Clear Score 
placed a block on the account and asked Mr J for identification so it could verify his details 
and the genuine account he holds in his own right. 
Mr J complained and raised a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) with Clear Score. Mr J 
has explained that as a result of the fraudulent Clear Score credit searches someone was 
able to access other accounts in his name and he was a victim of fraud. 
A complaint was raised with Clear Score and Mr J said that because of its actions a criminal 
had been able to gain access to accounts in his name. But Clear Score didnt agree it had 
made mistakes when opening the fraudulent account. Clear Score went on to refer details 
used by the fraudster, including the IP and email addresses used, to CIFAS. Clear Score 
says it responded to Mr Js DSAR request in January 2022 but didnt supply details 
concerning the fraudsters IP and email address. 
Clear Score paid Mr J £150 to apologise for distress and inconvenience caused. Mr J 
referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought Clear Score had dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. 
Mr J asked to appeal and said Clear Scores actions had directly led to fraud against him. 
Mr J also said that £150 didnt reflect the amount of time hes spent trying to resolve matters 
or the distress caused. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Js been through a particularly difficult time. Id like to thank Mr J for providing 
his detailed response along with supporting information that gives information about his 
circumstances and health. Id like to assure Mr J Ive read and considered everything hes 
sent us when looking at his complaint. I dont doubt that being a victim of fraud was very 
upsetting and its clear Mr J has spent many hours trying to resolve matters. 
Mr J has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An approach our rules allow 
me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by this approach. 
I need to explain that in this decision, I can only look at Clear Scores actions. I know its 
Mr Js view that it was Clear Scores actions that led to him being a victim of fraud. Mr J has 
explained a fraudster accessed his accounts with other businesses and took money. But, as 
the investigator has said, Mr J will need to discuss how an unrelated third party was able to 
access his accounts with those businesses. If Mr J remains unhappy with how they respond 
to his concerns he has the option of referring the matter to us. 
Mr J has asked for a detailed picture of how Clear Score authorises accounts and has told 
us hes aware theres a two stage process. Clear Scores advised the process involved is 
commercially sensitive so I cant share all the details here. But, Clear Score has told us it 
asks for personal details of the applicant to check. Clear Score says it then uses information 
from a third party credit reference agency to ask verification questions and complete the set 
up process. 
Clear Scores confirmed that the fraudulent account was opened after its application process 
was completed and information provided was verified. I know Mr J wants a more detailed 
explanation as to how the account in question was opened, but Im satisfied the information 
provided by Clear Score is reasonable. And Im satisfied the account was opened in line with 
Clear Scores process after the relevant information was provided.  
Mr J has also raised concerns over the way Clear Score handled his DSAR. Ive looked at 
the available information and it shows the DSAR response was sent to Mr J. I understand 
Mr Js view is that the DSAR took too long. But we cant fine or punish a business. And Clear 
Score has provided emails that show it needed Mr J to provide further information, before it 
could start his DSAR review, which was received in December 2021. I havent seen 
evidence of unreasonable delays. 
Mr J has told us he found the process of dealing with Clear Score and the fallout from the 
fraud against him time consuming and stressful. I can see ow upsetting this matters been for 
Mr J. Clear Score paid Mr J £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. I 
know my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr J, but Im satisfied thats fair. As 
noted above, Im satisfied Clear Score carried out its normal account opening checks before 
proceeding. And Mr J has recourse to contact the other businesses involved to query the 
fraudulent activity hes told us about. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but as Im satisfied Clear Score dealt with his complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint because Clear Score Technology Limited 
has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman