DRN-3162437
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a Tech pack in 
2017. Mr N says it was added to his account without his consent.
What happened
Our adjudicators have looked into this already and they did not believe that Barclays acted 
incorrectly when the Tech pack was added to Mr Ns account. Mr N did not agree with this 
and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a decision. This decision only 
relates to the Tech pack added to Mr Ns account in 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that the Tech pack was not sold to Mr N. What actually happened 
was that Mr N had held a Graduate Additions account for a number of years and in 2017 
Barclays decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the Graduate Additions 
account. Barclays replaced the Graduate Additions account with an option to have a fee-free 
current account with an additional optional Tech pack. 
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers 
and explain the changes clearly. 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Mr N  one before it changed his 
account, and one to confirm it had been changed. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Mr N at the address it held for him at the time. The first letter, sent in October 
2016, gave Mr N information on the upcoming changes that would be happening on his 
account. The second page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the 
change and choosing to have a fee-free account without the Tech pack. It gave Mr N the 
option of calling to make this change, or visiting a Barclays branch to do so. The second 
letter was sent in January 2017. It confirmed that Mr Ns account had been changed. And 
again on the second page it highlighted that Mr N could remove the Tech pack if he wished 
to do so.
Given this I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mr Ns account was changing 
from a Graduate Additions account to a-fee free current account with a Tech pack. And that 
it highlighted to Mr N that he could opt out of having this pack, if he wished to do so. I cant 
see that he contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change or query it. So, I cant say that 
Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the account, or that 
it needs to refund the fees Mr N paid for the Tech pack since it was added to his account.
I note that Mr N may not have used the benefits that the Tech pack came with and he may 
not have read the letters sent by Barclays. But in this instance, given that this was not an 
actual sale, rather a migration from an existing account (the sale of which Mr N has not 
complained about), and given that Barclays did send out notification of the changes prior to 
them occurring, I cant say that Barclays did not do what it needed to do. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman