DRN-2898367
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Action 365 Ltd (Action) unfairly charged him fees after his motor 
insurance policy cancelled.
Reference to Action includes its agents.
What happened
Action sold Mr L a policy which it administered. It asked him to provide some information 
including a copy of his driving licence and DVLA drivers licence summary. Mr L sent partial 
documents and a week later Action sent Mr L an email chasing his licence and DVLA 
summary. It said if he didn't provide the outstanding information it would cancel his policy in 
seven days.
Just over a week later Mr Ls policy was cancelled. Action told him that he still owed his 
insurer for his time on cover together with fees and non-refundable charges coming to a total 
of £193. Mr L contacted it that day and asked why it had cancelled his policy. Action told him 
it was because he hadn't sent his licence or DVLA summary. Mr L told Action the email 
asking for that and warning of cancellation had gone into his junk email box and he hadn't 
seen it. He provided the outstanding information the next day but Action said it couldn't 
reverse the cancellation. It said Mr L would have to pay the fees associated with the 
cancellation as well as pay the insurer for his time on cover.
Mr L didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She didn't think Action had dealt with Mr L fairly. So she said it should:
remove the cancellation marker from its database
waive the cancellation charge of £75
waive its new business fee of £47.50
waive the breakdown cover fee of £44.95
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
 
Mr L didn't send Action everything it had asked for, including a copy of his driving licence 
and his DVLA licence summary. So Action sent him a chaser for that information. It said that 
if he didn't provide the information it would cancel his policy in seven days. Mr L said he 
didn't receive this email as it went into his junk folder. But he did receive Actions follow up 
email which told him it had cancelled his policy. 
Its not clear why only one of Action's emails would have gone into Mr Ls junk folder, when 
he received others from it. But I note that, in response to our enquiries, Action told us that a 
number of its customers had reported a similar experience. That is Actions emails being 
diverted into junk folders. And it told us it had reviewed the method and process by which it 
sends emails to try to resolve this. So it seems likely the cancellation warning email was 
diverted to Mr Ls junk inbox.
I've noted that, after receiving the cancellation email, Mr L was able to provide the 
information Action needed without delay. And he certainly had nothing to gain, and quite a 
bit to lose, by not responding to Actions document request. So Im persuaded that Actions 
email warning of cancellation went into Mr Ls junk mail inbox; he didn't see it and if he had I 
think he would have sent the required information. So I've thought about whether it was fair 
for Action to do what it did. 
Where an insurer or broker cancels a consumers policy, it can have a significant effect on 
the consumer. Not least because of the administration charges, non-refundable fees and 
potential impact on future premiums for the consumer. So cancellation should be a last 
resort. And, to minimise the likelihood of an unfair cancellation, we think its good industry 
practice for the business to use two means of communication to inform the consumer of its 
intent to cancel. So, in this case, as well as sending seven days notice of cancellation by 
email, we think Action should also have tried to let Mr L know of the possible cancellation 
using a second method, for example by phone, text or by post. But it didn't do so. And I think 
if it had done so then its likely that Mr L would have sent the information required and his 
policy wouldn't have been cancelled.
It follows that I don't think Action dealt with Mr L fairly. So Ive thought about what it needs to 
do to put things right. To prevent the record of the cancellation from affecting Mr L in the 
future Action should remove or amend it from any internal and external database. I'm aware 
Mr L bought an alternative policy from another provider. The insurer who underwrote the 
policy Action sold to Mr L, charged him £74.25 for his time on cover. That charge is outside 
of Actions control. But, I don't think it would be fair for Action to charge Mr L for the other 
charges and non-refundable fees associated with the cancellation. So I think it should waive 
those charges, which Ive set out below.
For completeness Action referred us to another case where one of our investigators reached 
a different conclusion to this case in similar circumstances. But my role is to consider whats 
fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of each complaint. And to consider each 
one on its own merits. So I havent investigated the other case Action referred to and I'm 
satisfied that my conclusion in this case is fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances. Its also worthwhile noting that the other case Action referred to was 
considered by an investigator, which is the first stage of our process, and didn't progress to 
the second stage - consideration by an ombudsman. And, if it had, it's possible that an 
ombudsman may have reached a different conclusion to the investigator on that complaint. 
So the other case Action referred to hasn't influenced my findings in relation to Mr Ls 
complaint.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Action 365 Ltd to:
remove or amend the record of the policy being cancelled by Action from internal and 
external databases
waive the cancellation charge of £75
waive new business fee of £47.50
waive the breakdown cover fee of £44.95Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman