DRN-4485332
The complaint
Ms B complains AXA Insurance Plc handled a motor insurance claim poorly.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms B was involved in a collision with a third-party. She informed her motor 
insurer, AXA. It said it would gather CCTV footage and a police report as evidence that she 
wasnt at fault. Three years later AXA notified Ms B the third-party was taking legal 
proceedings against her policy. It said it hadnt collected the supporting evidence as agreed.  
AXA responded to a complaint from Ms B. It accepted it had failed to secure any CCTV 
footage of the incident and witness details from the Police. It accepted it had made mistakes. 
AXA acknowledged that Ms B shouldnt be financially impacted by its failure. So it said that 
whatever the outcome of any court case the claim would be marked as non-fault and have 
no impact on her no claims discount (NCD). It also offered £500 compensation.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with the compensation so came to this service. She says it doesnt 
reflect the level of stress shes experienced because of AXAs poor handling of the claim.
Our Investigator acknowledged AXA had accepted it failed to deal with the claim 
appropriately  and had confirmed it would ensure Ms B wouldnt lose out financially as 
result. But he felt its offer of £500 compensation wasnt enough to recognise the impact on 
her. So he recommended it pay her a total of £750. 
AXA accepted that outcome. As Ms B didnt the complaint was passed to me to decide. She 
said £750 wasnt enough considering the prolonged nature of the case and significant 
distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Ms B and AXA provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Im pleased to see AXA acknowledged its mistakes and took steps to put thing right for 
Ms B. I agree she shouldnt lose out financially because of its poor handling of the claim. It 
accepts its actions have had a detrimental impact on its ability to defend the claim from the 
third-party. Its good to see it committed to Ms B not losing out financially as a result. 
Ive considered Ms Bs comments on the compensation recommended by the Investigator. 
But I agree that £750 is a fair amount to recognise the non-financial impact on her. I note 
she may be required to attend court. I accept that will involve a level of stress and 
inconvenience. Ive also considered the inconvenience AXAs poor claim handling caused 
her  including needing to gather evidence herself. 
Ive also considered a significant event and health impacts shes referred to. I accept the 
event would have been a very difficult time for her. But its difficult for me, based on what Ive 
been provided with, to say AXAs actions were responsible for it happening or her other 
health concerns. 
Overall whilst AXA did make mistakes, its acceptance and response has been positive. Its 
actions have caused Ms B unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied £750 
is a fair amount to recognise the impact on her. So Im not going to require it to pay her 
anything extra or to do anything differently.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay Ms B a total of £750 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman