DRN-2384277
The complaint
Ms A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt provide her with a 
courtesy car after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Ms As car was taken without her consent and damaged in an accident. Ms A reported this to 
RSA and the police. RSA initially told Ms A that she would be provided with a courtesy car if 
she paid her policy excess and provided a crime reference number, which Ms A did. But it 
then told her that a car wouldnt be provided whilst the claim was being investigated. It also 
said this was because of the claim circumstances and Ms As claim history. Two weeks later 
the car was declared a total loss and RSA said a courtesy car wouldnt be provided. 
Ms A thought she was being unfairly treated and victimised because of her disability. She 
said the policy didnt say that a courtesy car wouldnt be provided if her car was written off or 
if she made a non-fault claim. RSA said it shouldnt have initially offered Ms A a car. It said 
Ms A could claim for loss of use or taxi costs up to £50 a week outside of her policy. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
RSA didnt need to provide a courtesy car when Ms As car was deemed to be a total loss as 
this was standard industry practice. And she thought RSA could exercise its commercial 
judgement about whether to provide a courtesy car to Ms A. 
But she thought RSA knew of Ms As specific needs and it should have considered whether 
a taxi or loss of use payment would meet these. She thought RSA should have told Ms A 
sooner that she wouldnt be provided with a courtesy car because of her claim history. She 
thought it could have taken the risk of providing a courtesy car and then settled the claim 
sooner. And she thought RSA should offer Ms A £250 compensation for not providing a 
courtesy car and for the trouble and upset this caused. And for not telling Ms A sooner that 
one wouldnt be provided under her policy and for misinforming her in the initial call. 
RSA replied that a courtesy car should have been declined initially but this mistake was 
rectified quickly. It said it was entitled to refuse to provide a courtesy car due to the risks 
involved. RSA asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms As frustration that she wasnt provided with clear information and that 
she was left without transport. I was sorry to hear of the distress this caused her. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
As our investigator has already explained, its standard industry practice that a courtesy car 
isnt provided in the case of total loss. So I cant say that RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it declined to offer Ms A a courtesy car after her car was deemed to be a total loss. 
And I think an insurer is entitled to make a commercial decision about the risks its prepared 
to take when providing a courtesy car. RSA has explained that it decided not to offer Ms A a 
car under her policy because of her previous claim history and the risk of further accidents. 
And again I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable.
But RSA agrees that it provided Ms A with incorrect and inconsistent advice about her 
entitlement to a courtesy car when she reported her claim. 
It firstly, in error, told Ms A that she would be provided with a car when she paid her policy 
excess and provided a crime reference number. Ms A was put to the trouble of doing this 
and led to believe that a car would be provided under her policy. 
But then RSA told Ms A that she wouldnt be provided with a car whilst her claim was being 
investigated. RSA said the call handler shouldnt have offered a car because of the 
investigation. I agree that the initial error was rectified quickly, but I think this falsely raised 
Ms As expectations and the change of decision caused her avoidable stress and upset. I 
can also see that Ms A was passed between various departments, and caused further 
distress, before someone took responsibility for this decision.  
The next day, RSA emailed Ms A to say that she wouldnt be provided with a car because:
Her current claim was under investigation
A previous claim had been repudiated
She had six recent claims 
Ms A repeatedly stated that she didnt have six claims, just four, and there were some 
duplications. I can see that RSA has now checked and explained to us that one claim was 
duplicated. And another incident was recorded twice because of the way that it was 
reported. But I cant see that it explained this to Ms A, and I think this was poor 
communication. 
Our investigator thought RSA should have warned Ms A after her last claim that she would 
no longer be provided with a courtesy car under her policy because of the risk. From what I 
can see, this decision had been made prior to Ms As latest claim. And I think it could have 
been communicated to Ms A earlier rather than cause her any confusion or 
misapprehension. 
RSA offered Ms A loss of use or taxis up to £50 a week. But Ms A declined this offer 
because this wouldnt meet her needs. I think, under the circumstances, RSA could have 
done more for Ms A. I think it could have provided a courtesy car during the claim validation 
and hastened its decision that her car was a total loss. This would have met her needs and 
minimised its own risks.
So I think RSA was aware of the nature of Ms As vulnerability and disability. I think it could 
have done more to ensure that it didnt make her situation worse. Instead, it provided 
inconsistent and incorrect information. And I think it communicated poorly with Ms A.
Putting things right
I think the impact of RSAs errors was that it caused Ms A avoidable distress and upset. She 
was also put to the trouble of ringing around the RSA departments to get an answer to her 
questions. And she was given inaccurate and late information. Our investigator 
recommended that RSA should pay Ms A £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Ms A £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its level of service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman