DRN-3804503
The complaint
Mr R complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of an insurance claim after a flood at 
his property.
What happened
Mr R has an insurance policy underwritten by Zurich which covers a property he owns and 
rents out. He made a claim after a flood led to the ground floor of the property being 
inundated with water.
Zurich accepted the claim and carried out repairs. But Mr R wasnt happy with the time it 
took, or the standard of the work undertaken by Zurichs contractors.
In particular, he said the back kitchen door was now very difficult to get open, the kitchen 
units which had been replaced didnt match the existing kitchen, and the contractors had 
damaged central heating pipes when they removed the kitchen flooring.
Zurich partly upheld Mr Rs complaint. They said they shouldnt have replaced the kitchen 
units without consulting Mr R and they offered 50% of the cost of replacing the now mis-
matched kitchen with a new one. They also offered £350 compensation for Mr Rs trouble 
and upset which had resulted from this error.
But they said there was no substantive damage to the central heating pipes. They might 
have been scuffed or marked in places, but they were still watertight and entirely in working 
order.
And they said the back door  which was aluminium  couldnt have been affected by the 
flood. They said if the door was now catching that was because the floor level had to be 
raised to accommodate the central heating pipework, which had been incorrectly installed 
originally. And this wasnt therefore covered under the terms of the policy.
Mr R wasnt happy with Zurichs response, so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it. He thought Zurichs offer to cover half the cost of the new 
(matching) kitchen was fair and reasonable. But he thought Zurich should repair the back 
door. And they should double the compensation to £700.
In response to our investigators view, Zurich offered to either pay for replacement of the 
door (£625) as a gesture of goodwill or double the compensation (to £700) and ask their loss 
adjuster to visit to have another look at the door and work out why it was sticking.
Mr R didnt accept either version of that proposed compromise. And Zurich then asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman. Essentially, they dont believe the issue with the door is 
claim-related. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this stage, theres absolutely no dispute about much of Mr Rs complaint. 
Zurich accepted  in response to Mr Rs complaint to them  that they should pay 50% of the 
cost of a replacement kitchen. Thats in line with our thinking on this kind of case. And I 
believe its now accepted by Mr R.
Experts appointed by Zurich and by Mr R agree that the central heating pipework wasnt 
damaged in any meaningful way when the kitchen floor was lifted. Theres no doubt in my 
mind that Zurich are entitled to decline any claim that they should replace the heating system 
and/or the pipework.
Zurich have accepted that the workmanship of the contractors was poor. And they accepted 
the kitchen ought not to have been repaired in the way it was  which has inevitably led to a 
delay in Mr R being put back in the position he was in before the insured event occurred.
They offered £350 in compensation for that - and theyve now accepted that doubling that to 
£700 is fair and reasonable.
The real remaining issue here is the back kitchen door. Zurich dont think any damage is 
claim-related. And theyve offered to replace the door only if the compensation isnt raised 
from £350. Mr R maintains that the issue is claim-related because there was no problem with 
the door before the flood. 
I dont have any reason to suspect that Mr R is making up or exaggerating the issue with the 
door. And to be fair to them, Zurich havent suggested that he is. 
As the policyholder in this case, Mr R has an obligation to establish that hes suffered loss or 
damage. And hes done that - its accepted the door isnt working properly. Hes also very 
clearly pinpointed the insured evert which appears to have led to that loss or damage.
If Zurich want to fairly and reasonably decline this part of the claim, theyd have to be able to 
show that the loss or damage is not claim-related  i.e., that it was caused by something 
other than the insured event (the flood). 
They say the problem cant have been caused by water affecting the door, because its 
aluminium  or aluminium-coated at least. And they said the problem was caused by the 
raised level of the floor in the kitchen  which was only raised because of poor installation 
originally.
Looking at the photographs provided by Mr R, Zurichs explanation of the damage clearly 
doesnt stand up. The bottom of the door is clear of the kitchen floor by at least a centimetre 
or so. And the photographs show that gap when the door is closed, when its half open and 
when its fully open. 
So, Im satisfied that Zurich havent shown how the damage occurred or that it was caused 
by anything other than the insured event, the flood. And this is despite the fact theyve had 
their loss adjuster inspect the property. That being the case, Im satisfied they need to cover 
the part of the claim relating to the back kitchen door. 
Putting things right
Its agreed that Zurich need to cover 50% of the cost of replacing Mr Rs kitchen units.For the reasons given above, they should also pay for replacement or repair of the back 
kitchen door.
And they should pay Mr R £700 in compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced 
as a result of their errors in handling this claim. Zurich offered £350 originally, but havent 
suggested that the £700 proposed by our investigator was unfair and/or unreasonably high.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Zurich Insurance PLC must:
pay Mr R 50% of the cost of replacing his kitchen units;
pay for or replace Mr Rs back kitchen door; and 
pay Mr R £700 in compensation for his trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman