DRN-2395964
The complaint
Mr F complains about delays when he applied to his mortgage lender, The Co-operative 
Bank Plc trading as Britannia, for additional borrowing. He asks for compensation for 
distress, upset and embarrassment, reputational damage and the financial implications of 
withdrawing funds from his ISA. 
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with The Co-op. He wanted to take out additional borrowing for home 
improvements and to help his son buy a property. He contacted The Co-op in late February 
2020 and made it clear he needed the funds by 17 April 2020. He completed the application 
forms and sent the information requested by The Co-op.
Mr F didnt hear anything and contacted The Co-op on 24 March. He was told his application 
was declined due to a discrepancy with his income information. Mr F says The Co-op had 
made no attempt to contact him about this. He says he made frantic efforts to sort matters 
out but had great difficulty contacting The Co-op.
Mr F became concerned the additional borrowing wouldnt be available in time for his sons 
purchase. He sold ISAs and borrowed money from a friend and client, which he found 
embarrassing. The additional borrowing completed on 20 April 2020. 
Mr F says while there was a small discrepancy with his income, theres no excuse for The 
Co-op failing to contact him about this.
Our investigator said The Co-op could have told Mr F sooner that there was a problem with 
his pension information. But the overall time taken to complete the additional borrowing was 
reasonable. 
Mr F didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what the parties have told me, and the evidence provided, Ive briefly summarised 
what happened below.
Mr F contacted The Co-op in late February 2020 about taking out additional borrowing. 
The Co-ops process was to deal with this as a re-mortgage. Mr F returned the 
completed forms and supporting information in early March, and this was received by 
The Co-op on 9 March 2020. The supporting information showed Mr Fs income as lower 
than hed stated and the application was referred back to the underwriters, who declined 
the application on 17 March 2020. 
Mr F called The Co-op on 24 March 2020 to see what was happening. Mr F was 
unhappy about how The Co-op assessed his income and there was some discussion 
about this. Information was requested from Mr Fs employer and the application was 
returned to the underwriters, for a lower loan amount. 
A mortgage offer was issued on 3 April 2020 and solicitors were instructed. 
The solicitors contacted Mr F on 8 April 2020 about a restriction on the property title, and 
asked him for contact details for the person that placed the restriction. This wasnt 
resolved in time for completion on 17 April 2020. 
The Co-op released funds on 20 April 2020. 
Mr F says he was first told the usual timescale to funds being available was 15 days, and in 
early March was told it takes two to three weeks from application. So he expected the funds 
to be available at the end of March 2020. I think The Co-op gave the timescales for issuing a 
mortgage offer, not for funds to be available. This timescale didnt take the legal work into 
account. 
Mr F says the funds would have been available in time if The Co-op had contacted him on 
17 March, when his application was declined by the underwriters. I understand the point he 
makes. But just because The Co-op could have contacted Mr F immediately, doesnt mean it 
made an error when it didnt. 
The Co-ops process is for the underwriters to give their answer to the mortgage adviser, 
who then contacts the customer. The mortgage adviser was told on 18 March the 
underwriters had declined the application, and spoke to Mr F on 24 March  four working 
days later. While I appreciate Mr F feels differently, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
say The Co-op made an error when it followed its usual process at this point.
Mr F says The Co-ops failure to contact him promptly caused his deadline to be missed. 
Equally though, the borrowing might have completed on time if there hadnt been a 
discrepancy in Mr Fs income information or legal issues with the property title. 
I think the overall time taken by The Co-op to process Mr Fs application was reasonable, 
given the discrepancy with Mr Fs stated income and issues with the property title. 
Mr F has said how frustrated he was about not being able to contact the mortgage team 
easily. He made calls and sent a number of emails on 1 and 2 April, and its clear he was 
frustrated at being unable to speak to someone about his application. But at this point Mr Fs 
application was with the underwriters. The Co-op had no new information to give to Mr F, 
and I dont think it made any difference to the outcome that he didnt speak to the person 
dealing with his application. 
Im sorry that Mr F needed to sell investments and borrow from a friend and client. Mr F has 
said he found this embarrassing, and the whole matter was stressful for him and his son. But 
I dont think The Co-op caused unreasonable delays with his mortgage application. It follows 
that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation.
My final decision 
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman