DRN-4404817
The complaint
Miss M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital 
(No. 9) (Asset Link) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Asset Link took over legal responsibility for the loan from another business, Asset Link 
Corporation Limited. So in this decision I will refer to the business only as Asset Link. 
In August 2020 Asset Link approved Miss M for a loan by way of a fixed sum loan 
agreement for £10,000. The loan was to help fund tuition fees and living costs for a two year 
period of study to gain a professional qualification. Under the terms of the loan the monthly 
payments were set at £5 for 25 months before increasing to £261 per month which would be 
payable for 120 months. 
Miss M made no further increased payments after February 2023 and then cancelled the 
direct debit. 
Miss M says the loan was irresponsibly lent. She says Asset Link didnt complete reasonable
and proportionate checks before approving the loan. She says she couldnt afford the initial 
or the higher loan repayments.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ms complaint be upheld. He thought that Asset 
Link had likely completed proportionate checks, including using predicted future income 
data, before lending to Miss M, but that the checks showed it was unlikely that Miss M would 
be able to sustainably make the increased monthly repayments once the course was over.
As Asset Link disagrees with our investigators finding, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
In this decision I will focus on the question of whether Asset Link completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way, both at the point of granting the loan and once the initial low payment 
period had ended. 
Asset Link needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it lent responsibly to Miss M. The
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent required it to carry out
reasonable and proportionate checks.
These checks needed to assess Miss Ms ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably 
over its term without causing her financial difficulties. There isnt a set list of checks a lender
needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, taking into account things like the type,
amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers circumstances.
Under the relevant regulations at the time, Asset Link was entitled to rely on the expected 
future income for Miss M when making this assessment. This was on the basis that this 
assessment was appropriate (bearing in mind what these regulations required in terms of 
proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in relation to any initial 
payments.
Asset Link says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, including using statistical 
information based on what it knew about Miss Ms proposed course of study. This also 
included consideration of Miss Ms likely future income in her intended career. It also says it 
completed a credit search on Miss M before approving the loan - although it has only been 
able to provide us with a summary. It says that Miss M had unsecured debt of £6,440 of 
which around £2,700 was credit card debt. And as there was no suggestion of any significant 
history of missed payments or other payment issues, Asset Link considered that monthly 
repayments of £5 per month whilst Miss M was engaged in her course of study would be 
affordable. 
Asset Link then went on to calculate Miss Ms future expected income. It says this was 
based on the information it had at the time that Miss M would be earning an annual income 
of around £24,000 after completing her course of study. Asset Link has told us about the 
various data sources it used to help predict this. We also know that Asset Link uses 
information from third parties, including educational institutions, in order to calculate the 
likely salary. This was considered alongside what Asset Link already knew about Miss Ms 
existing credit commitments. I consider the projected salary was broadly in line with the likely 
starting salary range for this occupation. So Im satisfied that Asset Link has demonstrated 
that it has come to a reasonable figure, based on different sources of information. Ive also 
kept in mind that it was exercising reasonable initial forbearance by setting a low nominal 
payment during Miss Ms period of study, prior to Miss M finding work and starting to earn 
the predicted income.
However, just because I think Asset Link carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Miss M was taking on a substantial credit commitment repayable over 12 years. As Ive 
already mentioned, I havent seen the full credit check that Asset link obtained at the time. 
But I think its reasonable to have expected Asset Link to have taken the necessary steps to 
ensure it had a reasonably detailed picture of Miss Ms financial situation. I would also 
expect this to include available details of her existing credit commitments. 
At the time she applied for the loan, Miss M was earning a gross annual salary of around 
£32,000. She would therefore be receiving net monthly pay of around £2,100. I cant see that 
Asset Link asked Miss M to provide proof of salary. This could have been achieved for 
example by Miss M providing a copy payslip or copy bank statements. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for Asset Link to have found out more about 
Miss Ms  committed expenditure, aside from her existing credit. This would include areas of 
her spending such as housing costs and daily living costs, for example food, travel and 
clothing. I cant be sure exactly what Asset Link would have found out if it had asked. But in 
the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ms bank statements as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive reviewed eight months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Miss Ms committed expenditure, including her existing credit, housing costs, food 
and other daily living expenses were taking up most if not all of her monthly income. She 
was also making consistent use of her overdraft, going up to and sometimes exceeding its 
£2,500 limit each month before being paid her monthly salary, leading to direct debits being 
returned. As a result, she was also incurring daily overdraft fees. Whilst the use of an 
overdraft is not in itself necessarily an indication of being in a difficult financial position, what 
Asset Link was likely to have seen needs to be weighed up in the context of Miss Ms future 
income, which was considerably less than her existing salary. 
Given that Miss M was treading water financially to the extent that she was reliant on the 
availability of her overdraft, I think Asset Link ought to have considered the impact that 
further lending might have. From what Ive seen of Miss Ms financial situation in the months 
leading up to the loan, I think its highly likely that taking on the higher level of payments 
would have led to an immediate deterioration in Miss Ms financial circumstances. I therefore 
agree with our investigator that she would be unlikely to have enough, if any, disposable 
income available each month to afford the higher level of borrowing once the payments 
became due. 
It follows that I dont think Asset Link acted reasonably and fairly in granting Miss M this loan. 
Putting things right  what Asset Link needs to do
As Im satisfied Asset Link should not have provided the loan to Miss M, she has lost out
financially by having to pay additional interest and charges. 
In order to put things right, I require Asset Link to: 
Add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given
the loan. The repayments Miss M S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any over-payments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Asset Link should defer
or limit repayments until Miss M is in a suitable position to make the  repayments.
Asset Link should complete a regular review of Miss Ms finances to determine whether she 
is in a suitable position to make sustainable repayments. This review should be completed 
regularly (no shorter than every six months) to establish if Miss Ms income has met the 
necessary level for her to make any repayments sustainably. Once she is earning the 
appropriate income to afford sustainable repayments, Asset Link should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with her. If Miss M does not cooperate with any 
reasonable attempts Asset Link makes to establish her affordability; then it can continue to 
pursue the repayment of the debt.
Once the loan amount has been repaid, remove any negative information recorded 
on Miss Ms credit file.
 If Asset Link considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct incometax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint against Link Financial Outsourcing 
Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No. 9).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman