DRN-2587417
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that MBNA Limited wont acknowledge that the outstanding debt on her 
credit card is that of her ex-fianc, Mr O, and that MBNA wont transfer the debt to him.
What happened
Ms W opened a credit card account with MBNA in April 2015 and added Mr O as an 
additional cardholder. She says she opened this account to help Mr O repay his existing 
debt of £30,000 by using 0% balance transfer offers. 
 
Although the card was in Ms Ws name, she says that Mr O had been making the 
repayments himself. MBNA confirmed that this is the case.
Ms W contacted MBNA in 2016 and asked to transfer the account into Mr Os sole name. 
MBNA said this wasnt possible and that Ms W was liable for the debt, not Mr O. MBNA also 
told Ms W that it couldnt provide an official document confirming the account was in joint 
names because Mr O had no liability for the account. 
Ms W contacted MBNA in 2020 to ask again for the account to be transferred to Mr O. She is 
no longer in a relationship with him and is worried about what will happen if he stops making 
payments. She is also worried by the letters she is receiving about persistent debt.
MBNAs response was as before, that Ms W cant transfer the debt, but it suggested that a 
new account could be opened in Mr Os name, and the balance transferred to that account.
Ms W brought her case to this service. Our investigator noted that under the account terms 
and conditions, Ms W was solely responsible for the account, and wasnt allowed to transfer 
her obligations to a third party. She thought Ms W should be aware of this as the terms are 
clear on this point. She agreed that the debt couldnt be transferred to Mr O. 
Ms W wasnt happy with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I sympathise with Ms Ws predicament. She took on a commitment on 
her credit card account to help out Mr O, her fianc at the time. The relationship has ended, 
and she now finds herself left with a debt which she is worried about paying, although Mr O 
is currently making the repayments. I can understand that this is very stressful for her.
However, unfortunately I have to tell Ms W that MBNA is correct in saying that she is the 
person who is legally liable for the debt, as she is the person who entered into the credit card 
agreement. And the agreement is clear that the account holder, Ms W, is liable for all the 
spending on the account, including anything spent by the additional cardholder, Mr O. Even 
though transactions have been made for Mr Os benefit, Ms W is liable for repayment of the 
balance on the account. 
The position cant be changed without Mr O taking legal responsibility for the balance. MBNA 
have suggested that possible options are would be to transfer the balance to an account in 
Mr Os name, or for him to repay the full balance. These are potential options, but they can 
only happen if Mr O agrees and takes the necessary steps to make it happen.
MBNA have also suggested that Ms W speak to its financial assistance team if Mr O stops 
making payments, and I would recommend that she follows this advice.
In the light of the above, although this will be disappointing for Ms W, I cant fairly say that 
MBNA have done anything wrong, and I cant tell it to move the debt into Mr Os name.
Finally, I note that Ms W mentions receiving letters about persistent debt. I would also 
recommend that she contacts MBNA about this as they are obliged to send letters like this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman