DRN-1471640
Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society hasnt correctly processed 
payments sent to their savings account from a stockbroker. 
Background
Mr and Mrs S arranged with their stockbroker for dividend payments to be sent to their 
Nationwide savings account. They provided details of their account number, sort code and 
roll number to the stockbroker, so that when payments were due they could be transferred 
by BACS payment into their savings. 
In December 2017, a dividend payment that was due for shares that were held in Mr Ss 
name failed. The stockbroker said that it used the account details provided by Mr and Mrs S. 
The same issued happened again in July 2018 and December 2018. Mr and Mrs S were 
frustrated that the payments hadnt been processed correctly. They visited a Nationwide 
branch to try to resolve the problem but remained unhappy with the service provided. They 
said, Mrs S held the same share holdings and her dividends had been paid correctly into 
their joint Nationwide savings account  so cant understand why it isnt working for Mr Ss 
dividends. 
The third time it happened, Mr and Mrs S escalated their concerns and complained to both 
Nationwide and the stockbroker. They received responses from both businesses but 
remained unhappy as neither accepted responsibility for the problem. Nationwide said 
the stockbroker had passed incorrect information about their account and this is why the 
payments failed. It did acknowledge that the service it gave Mr and Mrs S in branch could 
have been better. It paid them £50 to acknowledge this. The stockbroker also said it wasnt 
its fault the payments had not gone through as expected. Mr and Mrs S felt both parties are 
being economical with truth and didnt seem willing to take appropriate action to resolve it. 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to this service  and cases were set up both against 
Nationwide and the stockbroker. This decision is concerned solely with the actions of 
Nationwide. In that regard, the investigator initially thought Nationwide hadnt done anything 
wrong. During the investigation of the complaint about the stockbroker, further information 
emerged that led to the investigator re-considering the complaint about Nationwide. 
However, despite further investigation he didnt change his overall opinion. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They raised several points about 
the processes of the two businesses involved. And they raised many questions about the 
information that has been provided by Nationwide to explain why the payments werent 
made. They raised concerns about why Mrs S was able to receive dividend payments from 
the stockbroker into their savings account when the same account information had been 
passed from the stockbroker to Nationwide for Mr Ss holdings. They also felt there are wider 
implications to the situation and impact on other customers  including potential for financial 
fraud. Our investigator considered the additional points made by Mr and Mrs S but they didnt 
change his thinking on the complaint. As no agreement could be reached, Mr and Mrs S 
asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to reassure Mr and Mrs S, that Ive read all the correspondence in the file when 
deciding the complaint. I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on 
every specific point raised but its not because Ive failed to take it into account and think 
about it. Ive instead concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the key factors in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Ive first considered whether errors by Nationwide are the cause of the dividend payments 
not being received correctly into Mr and Mrs Ss savings account. Theres been contradictory 
and unclear information that has been provided by both Nationwide and the stockbroker. 
This makes it very difficult to understand exactly why the payments have failed. Both our 
investigator and Mr and Mrs S have attempted to gather information to establish the root 
cause of the problem but it has proved difficult to say precisely who is at fault. 
Ive reviewed the information that has been passed between the two businesses when trying 
to establish why the payments failed. What is clear from this is that the requirements and 
expectations of the two businesses differ in what format they expect the account information 
to be displayed. Nationwide and the stockbroker have provided reasons for their 
requirements. I accept this isnt something Mr S can easily influence or practically change. 
But I can see how frustrating it must be for them that the two businesses couldnt find a way 
to allow the payments to be processed in a smooth way by bank transfer. 
Ive also noted the comments made about Mrs Ss dividend payments successfully being 
paid into the savings account. Nationwide has explained that the way the stockbroker sends 
payments means manual intervention is needed to process them and this means there is an 
element of risk that an advisor doesnt recognise the details and rejects them. But it also 
means there is a chance a payment could go through as a result of successful manual 
intervention. Mr and Mrs S say they have received contradictory advice from Nationwide on 
this point. I can appreciate why they find it difficult to understand why Mrs Ss dividends have 
been processed correctly. But the explanation provided by Nationwide does seem credible 
based on the information Ive seen from the dialogue between Nationwide and the 
stockbroker. Im satisfied that the processes followed by the two businesses means these 
payments wont go through automatically due to the mismatched systems. So, if a payment 
does gets through, this doesnt mean anyone has made an error by not letting others get 
credited to that account.
Mr and Mrs S say it is up to Nationwide to inform them whether they feel confident of being 
able to receive all dividend payments into their preferred account. And if it cant it should 
come clean and inform them. I agree this would be helpful if Nationwide doesnt think it can 
guarantee receiving payments correctly. But Im also conscious that the stockbroker has 
suggested on more than one occasion that Mr S may want to consider using an alternative 
account for his dividends. So I think Mr and Mrs S are aware the best way to mitigate the risk 
of the payments failing again, is to change the account information with their stockbroker. I 
understand Mr Ss more recent dividends payments are no longer being sent to the savings 
account and paid by cheque instead. But, based on everything Ive seen, the most likely reason seems to be that the two 
businesses are running separate processes with different requirements, which arent 
compatible. And this is the reason the payments are failing. While Mr and Mrs S may feel 
this isnt a completely satisfactory answer, it is difficult to pin point blame on one party. Mr 
and Mrs S have been given an alternative solution to make sure Mr S receives his dividend 
payments on time. I think this is something they need to seriously consider as neither 
Nationwide nor the stockbroker can guarantee successful transfer to the savings account.   
Nationwide acknowledge there were failings in the service it provided to Mr and Mrs S. This 
particularly concerns information that was given to them when they were trying to resolve the 
payment issue in branch. I note that Nationwide has paid some compensation to recognise 
the impact of the poor service it provided. This is a fair and reasonable action to take in the 
circumstances. And I note that Mr and Mrs S have said they arent seeking further 
compensation. It does seem rather that they would like the two businesses to amend their 
processes, so that future dividend payments are guaranteed to be successful. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen I think it is unlikely that this type of guarantee can be provided. 
Ive considered the comments Mr and Mrs S have made about wider implications on other 
customers and potential financial fraud. As part of my findings, Im able to consider the 
individual impact of any failings by Nationwide on Mr and Mrs S, so it wouldnt be 
appropriate to comment on the impact on other customers. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S but I dont agree that further investigation is needed for me 
to reach a fair outcome on their complaint. I understand they plan to raise their concerns with 
the regulator but again I cant comment on the likely outcome of that.
Im also satisfied when automated transfers failed, no payments were missed as alternative 
payment methods were used to make sure all money due was paid. And I havent seen 
anything else to suggest that Nationwide were acting in an unfair or unreasonable way when 
dealing with the payments. Ive noted the comments Mr and Mrs S have made about the 
potential software issues and security risks. I havent seen anything to suggest that this is a 
likely cause for the failed payments. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S believe a more forensic 
investigation into the processes of both Nationwide and the stockbroker, would uncover 
malpractice  but I havent seen evidence to support that this warranted to reach an outcome 
on their complaint. And in any event that is beyond the scope of my role in deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
In considering everything that has been said, I accept that there has been fault on 
Nationwides part in how it has dealt with the situation. It has paid some compensation, 
which I found to be reasonable  but I wont be directing Nationwide to take any further 
action. My conclusion is that the two businesses involved have incompatible processes, 
meaning there is a high risk payments wont be complete correctly.  I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs S would like further investigation to be completed but I dont believe this is to be 
proportionate to the situation or likely to change my overall thinking. 
 
 
 
 
 
 My Final Decision  
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman