DRN-2568071
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam. 
 
What happened
In February 2020, Ms A responded to what she believed to be a genuine investment advert. 
After speaking to someone purporting to be from an investment company, she provided 
details to prove her identity and paid £250 from a non-Barclays account. She was directed to 
download what seemed to be a trading platform. Following further contact from the alleged 
investment company, she was talked into transferring £3,000 from her Barclays account. 
Unfortunately, this was a scam. 
The scammers then told her that she needed to recall the money and resend it using 
different details. Ms A asked Barclays to do this, saying that the money had been sent in 
error  but it was unable to retrieve the funds. She later realised it was a scam. 
Barclays says the £3,000 transfer didnt flag on its fraud systems. And it attempted to recall 
the funds on a best endeavours basis to no avail. It paid Ms A £120 for her inconvenience 
and call costs in relation to her complaint. Unhappy that it wouldnt refund the payment, Ms A 
referred the matter to our service. Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Barclays should 
have intervened when Ms A sent the money, nor did he think it could have reasonably done 
more to recover the funds. So he didnt ask Barclays to do anything more.  
Ms A has appealed the investigators view. She feels the bank has failed to consider her 
disabilities, and thinks it should refund the payment on compassionate grounds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear about what happened to Ms A, who has clearly been the victim of a 
cruel and sophisticated scam. My role is to consider Barclays actions, and I can only make 
an award or direction if I find it acted (or failed to act) in error. Having carefully considered 
what happened, Im satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably in processing the payment and in 
its subsequent dealings with Ms A about this matter. So I dont think it should be held liable 
for her loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Ms A made and authorised the transfer, even though she didnt intend 
the money to go to the scammers. Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
standard terms and conditions of accounts, firms are expected to execute an authorised 
payment instruction without undue delay. So in the first instance, Ms A is presumed liable for 
the loss.
However, taking account of the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider that it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to have:
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
maintained systems to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things), 
particularly given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than even commercial customers; and
taken additional steps or made additional checks in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive therefore considered whether Barclays should have looked into the circumstances of the 
payment before deciding whether to process it. In order words, were there fraud triggers that 
meant it ought to have identified the payment as being unusual or uncharacteristic for this 
customer and account, and which would justify taking additional steps or making additional 
checks before processing the payment? 
To help me decide this, Ive looked at Ms As account history in the year or so leading up to 
the scam. In context, the £3,000 payment doesnt appear so unusual and uncharacteristic 
that Id expect Barclays to have identified that Ms A might be at risk from fraud or scams. 
This is because she made several payments of a similar size during the 12 months prior to 
the scam. These were a mix of transfers and cash withdrawals between £1,000-£2,500. Im 
also conscious that, following the payment, Ms A still had over £3,500 left in her account. It 
wouldnt have appeared to Barclays that the whole account was being cleared by fraudsters. 
Overall, in line with its contractual and regulatory obligations, Im not persuaded Barclays 
ought to have completed further steps before processing this payment. 
Ms A has questioned whether Barclays should refund her money due to a voluntary code it 
has signed up to covering some scams. This is the Contingent Reimbursement Model. 
However, this code only applies to (some) scams where the transfer was between accounts 
within the UK. Whereas Ms A made an international transfer. So the code isnt a relevant 
consideration in this case. 
Ms A has also queried whether Barclays ought to have done more given her vulnerabilities 
and disabilities, which shes disclosed to us and the bank. Barclays has explained that it only 
became aware of Ms As circumstances after the transaction. But she says it ought to have 
known due to her visits to branch. I dont think Barclays could or should have made 
assumptions and treated her differently without being asked. And I cant reasonably see 
what it could have done differently in light of her situation that would have caused it to stop 
the scam payment. So I cant fairly direct it to refund the payment on this basis.   
Ive gone on to consider Barclays actions following the scam. It tried to recall the money 
when Ms A reported that it had been sent in error, but the overseas receiving bank didnt 
return the funds. So whilst its undoubtedly frustrating and upsetting that Ms A hasnt got her 
money back, I dont think this is Barclays fault. It did what it could to assist her, but was 
unsuccessful. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Ms A, but Im not persuaded Barclays ought 
to have identified the transaction as an unusual or uncharacteristic scam trigger. Nor am I 
persuaded it could reasonably have done more to recover the money. Ultimately, the loss 
was caused by the action of criminals manipulating Ms A, not the wrongful actions of the 
bank. In all the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Barclays to 
reimburse her for the money she lost due to the scam.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman