DRN-1713133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about the amount of the excess they were charged in 
relation to a claim for water damage in their property. Theyve complained that Ross & 
Liddell Ltd didnt tell them about the amount of the excess when they arranged the 
insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L own a flat in a block of flats. Their buildings insurance is provided on a 
common buildings policy and is arranged each year by Ross & Liddell. 
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs L found water damage in their property and made a claim. The loss 
adjustors initially informed Mr and Mrs L that the excess applicable to their claim was £200. 
A few weeks later, on 5 December 2018, the loss adjustors again told Mr and Mrs L that the 
excess was £200. But on 12 December 2018, the loss adjustors phoned Mr and Mrs L and 
told them theyd made an error and the excess was in fact £1,000. Mr and Mrs L had the 
work carried out and paid the excess of £1,000. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to Ross & Liddell. They said they didnt know the excess was 
£1,000. They didnt think this was right and they pointed out that on the following years 
renewal documents the excess was £200. And they complained that the loss adjustors had 
changed the amount of the excess in their communications. They said theyd like a refund of 
the £800 difference between the two figures.
In their response, Ross & Liddell said the 2018 renewal documents had been clear that the 
excess for water damage had increased. They explained that it had increased because of 
the history of past claims in respect of water damage. Ross & Liddell added that the loss 
adjustors were appointed by the insurers so they couldnt be held responsible for the loss 
adjustors giving the wrong information to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. They said they werent told the excess 
was £1,000 until after they confirmed the claim. Our investigator reviewed the documents 
and her view was that the renewal letter and the insurance certificate made it clear that the 
excess for water damage was £1,000. 
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with our investigators view so the complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Ross & Liddell. I can appreciate 
Mr and Mrs Ls frustration with this situation. But I dont think Ross & Liddell have done 
anything wrong  Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint covers the actions of two different businesses. I can see that when 
the loss adjustors were dealing with Mr and Mrs Ls claim they said on several occasions 
that the excess would be £200 before they changed the figure to £1,000. But the loss 
adjustors were appointed by the underwriter, so Im satisfied Ross & Liddell cant be held 
responsible for this. So I wont be looking any further into this aspect of the complaint.
In addition, the underwriter of the policy, rather than Ross & Liddell, is responsible for pricing 
decisions, including the decision to increase the excess in 2018. So I wont be looking any 
further into this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint either. 
Ive looked at the renewal documentation to understand what Mr and Mrs L were told about 
their buildings policy when it started. I can see they were sent a renewal letter dated 
26 April 2018. At the top of page 2 of this letter, in red writing, attention is drawn to the 
change in excess for water damage  it says: The excess for ALL Water Damage claims 
under Section 1 - Property Damage is amended to £1000.00. This is a standalone sentence 
and isnt included within a paragraph. Im satisfied its clear.
Attached to the renewal letter was the certificate of common buildings insurance. Its clear 
this policy covers both private and common areas of the building because the section setting 
out the standard excesses separates private and common excesses. I can see that this 
section shows that the excess for water damage is £200 for private areas and £300 for 
common areas. So I can understand why Mr and Mrs L might have expected the excess for 
their claim to be £200 if they just looked at this section of the certificate and didnt refer to the 
renewal letter. 
However, just below the standard policy excesses section on the certificate is the additional 
terms section. This repeats the wording shown in the renewal letter from Ross & Liddell, 
stating: The excess for ALL Water Damage claims under Section 1 - Property Damage is 
amended to £1000.00. So Im satisfied that although the insurers normal excess for a 
private claim on this type of policy would be £200, the actual excess for Mr and Mrs Ls 
building was £1,000  regardless of whether it was a private or a common claim.
While I can appreciate that listing the standard policy excesses as well as the actual policy 
excess has the potential to cause some confusion, Im satisfied that the renewal letter from 
Ross & Liddell to Mr and Mrs L clearly set out that the excess for any water damage claims 
would be £1,000. And I cant see that Ross & Liddell told Mr and Mrs L the excess would be 
£200 at any point during Mr and Mrs Ls claim  that was the loss adjustors.
To conclude, Im satisfied Ross & Liddell communicated the excess clearly to Mr and Mrs L. 
I cant see that Ross & Liddell have done anything wrong and so Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about Ross & Liddell 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman