DRN-3474669
The complaint
Mrs N complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
February 
2018£5,000 36 £264.18 £9,510.48 Outstanding
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs N and Everyday Loans had told us and he 
thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this loan. So he recommended 
upholding Mrs Ns complaint. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at this complaint.
In brief summary, Everyday Loans disputed the income and expenditure figures our 
adjudicator had relied on in her view and said it was unfair to make an assessment of 
affordability on the basis of discretionary spending. It felt its assessment was proportionate 
and fair and showed that Mrs N would have over £300 disposable income. It also said this 
amount didnt include additional income Mrs N received from overseas. Everyday Loans said 
she fell into difficulty with her account only when her health deteriorated and this didnt 
happen because the loan repayments were unsustainable or unaffordable. 
As the complaint is unresolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with the conclusion our adjudicator came 
to. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mrs N about her income and expenses  including what she spent on 
her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand her credit history and 
find out about her existing credit commitments and it reviewed a bank statement provided by 
Mrs N. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mrs Ns monthly take home pay was around £1,913 which it 
checked against information it saw on her bank statements and a payslip she provided. 
Mrs N told Everyday Loans that another member of the household paid the rent on her 
home. Everyday Loans took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about 
Mrs Ns likely living costs. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans affordability assessment showed that Mrs Ns likely spending 
needs shouldve left her with just over £600 surplus cash each month. 
This led Everyday Loans to conclude that the loan repayments of £264.18 would be 
sustainably affordable for Mrs N. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mrs N should have had enough disposable 
income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised 
this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information it had gathered. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Mrs N had two other large loans, including one for more 
than £10,000 taken out in November 2017, just 3 months or so before she applied for this 
loan. In total, she owed more than £11,000 on loans and instalment credit  as well as a 
further £2,600 or so on active credit cards, which were already at or approaching the 
account limit. I think this looked like a relatively large amount of credit for someone in 
Mrs Ns financial situation  especially bearing in mind that she had been in her current 
reasonably well paid employment for over 3 years and she wasnt responsible for paying any 
housing costs out of her income. And despite her bank account being boosted by a payment 
of around £1,740 near the start of February 2018, which moved her account into credit, 
Everyday Loans could see that Mrs N was around £600 overdrawn at both the start and end 
of the months worth of transactions it saw - and paying bank fees for this. 
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that it looked like Mrs Ns debt had already 
become problematic for her and that she was financially over-stretched and struggling to 
manage her money. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability.  
But I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that the additional repayments for this loan, on 
top of the debt she was already paying, meant Mrs N would need to pay almost a third of her 
net income just to service her debt repayments. I think this was such a significant portion of 
her income being committed to paying for credit, it was likely she would struggle to repay this 
loan sustainably over the loan term given the evident money problems she already had 
meeting her existing credit commitments. I've taken into account what Everyday Loans has said about discretionary spending. But it 
seems unlikely to me that Mrs Ns circumstances would have allowed much scope for her to 
cut back on other spending throughout the loan term sufficiently to make the loan 
comfortably affordable. Especially keeping in mind that the income figure it relied on included 
regular benefits that were paid based on her circumstances and specifically intended to help 
cover other costs  not repay additional debt. I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Everyday Loans could reasonably have expected Mrs Ns overseas income would be 
sufficient to improve 
So all the indications were that she would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant 
reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mrs N. I believe that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware 
that this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mrs N and recognised that it shouldnt have 
provided it. 
So Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs N to repay the capital amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending - but she shouldnt repay any more than this. 
If Everyday Loans has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what 
I have outlined below. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs N received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs N made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mrs N having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mrs N
Whilst its fair that Mrs Ns credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mrs Ns credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman