DRN-3994851
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the management and administration of her catalogue shopping 
account by J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Ambrose Wilson (Ambrose Wilson). 
In particular, Mrs W complains about the interest she is being charged by Ambrose Wilson 
on her account.
What happened
On 15 February 2019 Ambrose Wilson issued Mrs W with a final response letter (FRL) 
addressing her concerns about an interest charge. Referral rights to our service were given 
under cover of this FRL.
On 20 May 2021 Ambrose Wilson issued Mrs W with a summary resolution communication 
(SRC) addressing her concerns about a missed payment charge. Referral rights to our 
service were given under cover of this SRC.
On 13 August 2021 Ambrose Wilson issued Mrs W with a SRC addressing her concerns 
about her account interest rate. Referral rights to our service were given under cover of this 
SRC.
On 6 October 2021 Ambrose Wilson issued Mrs W with a SRC addressing her concerns 
about being sent payment reminders. Referral rights to our service were given under cover 
of this SRC.
In February 2022 Mrs W complained to Ambrose Wilson about her account interest rate. 
Ambrose Wilson didnt issue Mrs W with a FRL or SRC in respect of this complaint because 
it felt it had addressed this complaint under cover of one or more of its previous 
communications.
In March 2022 Mrs W complained to our service about Ambrose Wilsons management and 
administration of her account, in particular the interest rate Ambrose Wilson was charging 
her.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that:
The complaint raised by Mrs W and addressed by Ambrose Wilson under cover of its 
FRL dated 15 February 2019 had already been considered by our service (and not 
upheld).
The complaints raised by Mrs W and addressed by Ambrose Wilson under cover of 
its SRCs dated 20 May 2021 and 13 August 2021 had been referred to our service 
too late for us to consider them.
The complaint raised by Mrs W and addressed by Ambrose Wilson under cover of its 
SRC dated 6 October 2021, although referred to our service in time, shouldnt be 
upheld. This was because in her view Ambrose Wilson had done nothing wrong in 
sending Mrs W payment reminders.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary she said her main concern was 
the interest she was being charged by Ambrose Wilson on her account. She also said that 
exceptional circumstances had prevented her from referring her complaint to our service 
sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to investigate every complaint
thats referred to us. I can only consider complaints which fall within our jurisdiction. The
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) gives the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The rules setting this
out are known as DISP or the DISP rules and can be found within the FCA handbook.
The relevant rule here is DISP 2.8.2R which says unless the respondent (Ambrose Wilson)
consents, the Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution
communication; 
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP
2.8.2 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 
As I understand it Mrs Ws main complaint is about the interest she is being charged by 
Ambrose Wilson on her account, an issue that was addressed under cover of Ambrose 
Wilsons SRC dated 13 August 2021.
For me to be able to consider Mrs Ws complaint about the interest she is being charged by 
Ambrose Wilson on her account she (everything else being equal) needed to have referred 
that complaint to our service by 13 February 2022, but she didnt do so until 29 March 2022. 
So, like the investigator, Im satisfied that this particular complaint is one that has been 
referred to our service more than six months after the date on which Ambrose Wilson sent 
Mrs W its SRC.
As Mrs W is aware, I do have the power to consider a complaint referred to our service late 
where the reason for that late referral is because of exceptional circumstances.
Now I dont underestimate the difficulties Mrs W has experienced in the last few years, but 
Im not persuaded these difficulties prevented her from referring her complaint about the 
interest she is being charged by Ambrose Wilson on her account to our service, especially  
when all is needed to register a complaint referral to our service is a simple phone call 
and/or email to us. I also think its worth pointing out that although Mrs W says she was 
unable to refer her complaint to our service about the interest she is being charged by 
Ambrose Wilson by 13 February 2022, she was able to raise a new complaint with Ambrose 
Wilson in October 2021.So, Im not persuaded I should consider the merits of Mrs Ws complaint about the interest 
she is being charged by Ambrose Wilson on her account on the grounds exceptional 
circumstances prevented a referral to our service in time. However, and for the avoidance 
of any doubt, I would like to make it clear that my finding in this respect doesnt prevent 
Mrs W pursuing this particular complaint through other channels. 
Finally on this particular point I would add that Ambrose Wilson has confirmed to our service 
that the last interest rate change on Mrs Ws account was February 2019. In other words, 
there has been no increase in the interest rate charged to Mrs Ws account by Ambrose 
Wilson since she complained about the interest she was being charged by it in August 2021.
I will now turn to the complaint our investigator concluded our service did have the power to 
consider the merits of, that being Mrs Ws dissatisfaction about being sent payment 
reminders.
I can understand Mrs Ws frustration at receiving these reminders. But like the investigator 
Im satisfied that Ambrose Wilson has done nothing wrong in sending these reminders 
because it has a responsibility to keep its customers updated on their payment obligations. 
Therefore, it follows that I dont uphold this particular complaint.
My final decision
Im satisfied that Ive no jurisdiction to consider Mrs Ws complaint about the interest she is 
being charged by J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Ambrose Wilson on her 
account and that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Ambrose Wilson has done 
nothing wrong in sending Mrs W payment reminders.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman