DRN-3171565
The complaint
Mrs S says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that the loans werent affordable and she ended up in a debt spiral. She thinks 
that LaH shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about 11 home collected loans LaH provided to Mrs S between July 2008 
and March 2016. Some of the information LAH has provided about the lending is in the table 
below. 
loan date taken amount Instalments date repaid
1 31/07/2008 £300 32 29/01/2009
2 04/12/2008 £250 41 20/08/2009
3 29/01/2009 £300 32 20/08/2009
4 20/08/2009 £300 32 25/11/2010
5 20/08/2009 £250 41 25/11/2010
6 03/12/2009 £200 32 01/09/2011
7 25/11/2010 £375 35 26/11/2015
8 25/08/2011 £200 35 26/11/2015
9 22/12/2011 £250 35 26/11/2015
10 26/11/2015 £500 35 written off
11 10/03/2016 £200 35 written off
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider loans 1 to 9 as Mrs S complained more 
than six years after they were lent. So, it doesnt think they arent within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator firstly said that he thought Mrs S had complained in time. This is because 
whilst she made her complaint later than six years from when she started the loans there 
was no evidence to suggest she complained later than three years before she was aware 
she could complain.  
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold the 
complaint. He said that by loan 6 the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, 
and so LaH shouldve stopped lending at this point. 
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of the complaint. It said 
that, essentially, Mrs S was in arrears with her lending as early as 2009 and this continued 
going forward. And some of the lending was written off in 2016 due to these problems So, 
she would have been aware that the loans were causing her problems more than three 
years before she made her complaint. And she should have been aware that she could 
complain about them much earlier than she did. 
Mrs S didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs S and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all 
the loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mrs S) knew, or should really have known she had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 9 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs S was aware, or ought to have been 
aware, more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that Mrs S struggled to repay the lending at times, and this shouldve 
caused her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this 
particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst struggling to repay the lending would no doubt have led Mrs S to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made her aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs S was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before she complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think the complaint about loans 1 to 9 was raised within the time 
limits I need to apply and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and 
consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate or reasonable checks to make sure 
Mrs S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably, or without difficulty, make their repayments. But 
it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The current industry regulator defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mrs S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs S had with 
LaH. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual affordability checks for loans 6 to 11 because I dont think that 
it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending history with Mrs S, 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs S case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point LaH ought to have realised Mrs S was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. She had taken out six loans within 16 months. And this was Mrs S 
fourth loan 2009. 
Mrs S first loan was for £300 and loan 6 was for £200. But because of the amount of 
loans she had taken in 2009 her overall indebtedness had risen sharply. She had 
borrowed a total of £1,050 in this year. And loan 5 was still outstanding when she 
took loan 6. 
So LaH ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Mrs S indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably. And LaH ought to have known that Mrs S was not 
likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing 
need. 
Right from the start Mrs S was provided with a new loan within a very short time of a 
loan ending. Mrs S often had more than one loan running at the same time. And, as LaH says, Mrs S had significant problems repaying this lending from an early 
point. As the table above shows some of these loans took a number of years to fully 
repay. And Mrs S was given loans straight after this, despite the obvious repayment 
problems. 
Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed LaH. Loan 11 was 
taken out around eight years after Mrs S first. Mrs S had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an extended period.
I think that Mrs S lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs S indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs S ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 11 and LaH should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs S from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs S may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs S would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mrs S loans 6 to 11.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) LaH may  if LaH chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LaH has written-off.
D) LaH should pay any remaining refund to Mrs S. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LaH to pursue this 
further.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs S borrowing for loans 6 to 11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs S credit file. If LaH 
has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs S complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman