DRN-3617913
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly closed her accounts 
and she experienced discriminatory treatment when visiting a local branch.
What happened
Miss A had recently opened a series of accounts with Halifax. After a month or so, she 
became aware that her accounts were no longer working. Halifax advised Miss A that they 
were closing all her accounts and gave her 65 days notice of this happening.
Miss A explained she then had problems trying to withdraw her funds and when visiting a 
local branch, was subject to racist abuse by the staff. Miss A complained to Halifax about 
this and also told them that she had a medical condition that theyd failed to take into 
account, despite her telling Halifax about it when her accounts were opened. She also 
complained that an earlier complaint shed made hadnt been progressed.
Halifax looked into the situation and accepted that theyd failed to note Miss As medical 
condition, but they couldnt find any record of an earlier complaint made by Miss A. Halifax 
paid £50 to Miss A as redress. Halifax didnt accept that theyd acted outside the accounts 
agreement when they closed it, nor had they been discriminatory towards Miss A when she 
visited her local branch. 
Miss A remained unhappy with how Halifax had dealt with her situation and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Miss As 
complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information 
about the complaint.
Miss A explained what had happened to her whilst in the branch. Halifax provided details of 
the accounts held by Miss A and notes concerning what had happened including details of 
their investigation of her complaint. During the investigation, Halifax had requested 
information from the local branch about the visits from Miss A which indicated heated 
arguments had taken place and the police were called on different occasions by the branch. 
The statements from Miss As account also showed she was able to access her funds after 
her account was blocked. After considering the complaint, it wasnt upheld by our 
investigator. She thought that Halifax had acted reasonably and there was no evidence of 
mistreatment of Miss A when visiting a branch.
Miss A disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of her 
complaint. Miss A, through her representative, wanted to see CCTV recordings made in the 
branch and disagreed that shed been allowed to access her savings. Miss A denied acting 
in a threatening manner towards the staff but accepted that there was a lack of evidence to 
support her assertion that shed been racially discriminated against. Miss A accepted the 
£50 redress provided by Halifax for failing to update their records about her medical 
condition.
Miss As complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Halifax conducted a review of Miss As account holdings, they decided to end their 
relationship with her. Halifax then blocked the account and notified Miss A that her account 
was to close within 65 days. 
It was after Miss A became aware of the closure of her account that she visited a branch to 
remove her funds. Its apparent that on several occasions the visits became heated between 
Miss A and staff members. Miss A wanted to understand why her account had been closed, 
but the local branch staff were unable to give Miss A any information about this. The police 
were called on a few occasions to remove Miss A from the premises and the bank employed 
additional security due to staff concerns about their safety. 
Theres no independent evidence (including CCTV) of the interactions between Miss A and 
the branch staff. So, I have to make my decision based on the available evidence from both 
parties and what I consider, on the balance of probabilities, was likely to have happened. 
Miss A later accepted that there was no evidence to support her assertion that she was 
discriminated against. Whilst Miss A has said theres no evidence to support her complaint 
about this issue, she hasnt withdrawn it.
Race  which includes nationality and ethnic or national origins is a protected characteristic
within the Equality Act 2010. Alleged breaches of the Act are a matter for the courts to
determine  and so I cannot make a finding on whether or not Halifax has acted unlawfully in
discriminating against Miss A on the basis of a protected characteristic. But I can consider
whether Miss A was treated in a fair and reasonable manner and whether I think she was
treated differently to other customers.
On different occasions when Miss A visited the branch, the staff called the police and 
eventually employed additional security because they felt threatened by Miss A. I dont think 
that branch staff would unnecessarily call the police or employ additional resources unless 
they felt it was necessary to do so. I appreciate Miss A has denied being aggressive towards 
the staff, but the evidence does appear to indicate they felt uncomfortable with how Miss As 
visits were unfolding.  
One issue that I had some concerns about is the acceptance by Halifax that they failed to 
record details of Miss As medical condition. Ive noted that Miss A accepted the redress for 
this, but there was a potential for a greater impact on Miss A because those details werent 
recorded on Halifaxs systems until much later. Its likely her medical condition had an impact 
on the way Miss A communicated when she became overwhelmed by the closure of her 
account. If the branch staff had been made aware of Miss As condition prior to her visit, they 
would have had more context about Miss As potential reaction to the closure. But, I also 
recognise that theres a balance to be sought with how both customers and staff behave 
towards each other. I appreciate that the staff felt uncomfortable with Miss As behaviour, but 
its also apparent that Miss A was frustrated with the lack of answers she received about her 
account being closed.  
It was during these visits that Miss A felt she was unable to withdraw all her funds from her 
accounts. I think its understandable that usual bank business would be interrupted if the 
situation became heated, which the evidence indicates it did on several occasions. I dont 
think Halifax acted unfairly during these occasions and the evidence shows that Miss A was 
later able to obtain funds from all her accounts, either from branch withdrawals or through bank transfers to other accounts.
Overall, Ive not found any evidence that Halifax dealt with Miss A any differently during her 
branch visits than they would any other customer. And its consistent with how theyve 
responded to similar concerns elsewhere when customers visits turned heated in a similar 
manner as Miss A. Im satisfied that Miss A wasnt treated differently to any other customer 
in similar circumstances.
Account closure
I understand Miss A was frustrated by the closure of her account and the inability to find out 
why that had happened. Both parties have the option of ending their relationship with each 
other. On this occasion, Halifax chose to close Miss As accounts. Halifax arent required to 
inform Miss A why her accounts were closed, which forms part of the agreement between 
them. Because Halifax provided the appropriate notice to Miss A before the accounts were 
closed, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
Other matters
I appreciate Miss A wanted to see evidence of her interactions with branch staff (CCTV), but 
as Ive already mentioned, as far as Im aware, there are no records of this available to view. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman