DRN-2740894
The complaint
Miss K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a life 
assurance policy as it didnt include critical illness cover. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2008, and at the time of applying for a mortgage, Miss K set up a life assurance policy 
with NatWest. The policy provided an initial sum assured of £94,000 on a decreasing basis 
over a 22-year term. 
Miss K was unfortunately diagnosed with cancer in April 2020 and so she tried to make a 
claim under the policy. The claim was rejected by the insurer, as the policy doesnt provide 
critical illness cover, and Miss K complained to NatWest. She thought the policy had been 
mis-sold as she was led to believe it provided cover in the event she suffered from a critical 
illness. 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. They confirmed the policy only provided life cover 
(including a terminal illness benefit), that it was sold on a non-advised basis and also wasnt 
a requirement of the mortgage. NatWest also explained that Miss K was sent a policy 
schedule and policy documents that wouldve confirmed how it worked including on what 
basis the life cover benefit was payable. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. He said that due to the time thats since passed there 
isnt a recording of the telephone call  in which the policy was sold  available. And while he 
noted Miss Ks testimony that she wanted critical illness cover, the application form showed 
this benefit wasnt selected. Our investigator also explained that it was Miss Ks 
responsibility to decide whether the policy was suitable for her needs as it was sold on a 
non-advised basis. So, in the absence of anything to show otherwise, he didnt think he 
could fairly conclude NatWest had acted wrongly in setting up the policy without critical 
illness cover included. 
Miss K disagreed and so the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Ks disappointment at finding out that she isnt covered under her policy. I 
also dont underestimate how difficult a time this must for Miss K as I understand she was 
intending to use this money to cover her mortgage repayments as shes been unable to 
work. But what I must consider here is whether NatWest is responsible for Miss K not taking 
out critical illness cover when the policy was sold in 2008. And while know this isnt the 
outcome Miss K is hoping for, I dont think they are and for similar reasons as that of our 
investigator. Let me explain why.
There isnt a recording of the telephone call from 2008 available. This isnt surprising given 
the time thats since passed but it means I cant be sure what was discussed between the 
adviser and Miss K when the policy was sold. The application form clearly shows that the 
critical illness benefit wasnt selected and so the insurer set up the policy in line with the 
instructions they received. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means it was Miss Ks responsibility to 
ensure it was suitable for her needs and that it provided the level of cover she wanted. 
Miss K however says she requested for the policy to include the critical illness benefit. While 
Ive considered this, Ive also taken in to account that the insurer sent Miss K a letter 
confirming her application had been accepted on 10 June 2008. This included the terms of 
cover, which showed the critical illness benefit as not included, and asked Miss K to 
carefully check the details to ensure they were accurate and met her needs. I also 
understand that other policy documentation, such as the key features, wouldve been sent to 
Miss K which set out how the policy worked  including what was and wasnt covered. 
Miss K has said she doesnt recall receiving paperwork when the policy was sold. But I 
understand she worked for NatWest at the time and so I think its reasonable for her to have 
known that policy documentation would be provided. So, if this wasnt received, then I think 
Miss K shouldve contacted NatWest or the insurer about this. I cant see that this happened.
I therefore think its more likely that Miss K did receive policy documentation. And I think its 
reasonable to expect this to have been read as per the insurers recommendation. It follows 
that if the cover wasnt as Miss K was led to expect, then she ought to have questioned this 
at the time. 
Im aware that Miss K has suggested NatWest may have made a mistake when completing 
the application. But, while I cant rule this out, I dont think its likely or that it negates the 
expectation of a policyholder to check the policy documentation provided as Ive explained. 
So, I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss K but I dont think the policy was mis-
sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman