DRN-2614367
The complaint
Miss K complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim under her 
car insurance policy and about Admirals decision to decline the claim.
What happened
Miss K bought her car from a family friend in January 2020. In July 2020, it was taken from 
the car park outside her flat. She reported a theft to the Police and made a claim to Admiral 
under her car insurance policy.
Around three weeks later, the Police advised Miss K that the vehicle had been recovered. It 
had been involved in a collision and was later written off due to extensive damage. The 
Police had apprehended the driver. He is now being prosecuted for the theft of the car.
Admiral contacted the recovery compound where the car has been taken. It appeared there 
had been no forced entry to the car at the time it was taken. And the car was recovered with 
a working key inside.
After investigating the matter further and taking a statement from Miss K, Admiral declined 
the claim. They said Miss K had attempted to mislead them over the circumstances of the 
claim.
Miss K had said she only ever had one key for the car and had no idea how her car had 
been stolen or how the perpetrator had obtained a working key.
Miss K had already made a complaint to Admiral about customer service, saying they hadnt 
kept her up-to-speed on the claim, hadnt dealt with her queries appropriately and hadnt 
dealt with the claim in a timely manner.
After Admiral declined her claim, she added that to her on-going complaint - on the basis 
that Admirals decision was unfair and unjustified.
Admiral admitted that one call Miss K had made to them hadnt been handled perfectly. They 
apologised for that and said theyd give feedback to the agent whod taken the call.
But they said there hadnt been unavoidable delays in handling the claim. Any delays had 
been the result of their legitimate need to investigate the matter before coming to a decision 
on the claim. And they maintained that their decision to decline the claim was correct.
Miss K wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into and didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Miss K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Admiral didnt unnecessarily delay the handling of Miss Ks claim. They told her 
their decision in mid-September 2020. The car was recovered in mid-August. They were 
entitled to investigate the matter thoroughly given the circumstances. 
Im also satisfied they kept Miss K updated about the progress of her claim. And gave her as 
much information as they had at the time when she contacted them to chase it up.
Theyve admitted a small error in the handling of one call and apologised. Thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. The error didnt hold up the claim or mislead Miss K and 
had no lasting impact on her.
The real crux of this complaint is about Admirals decision to decline the claim. Its worth 
saying that this is a very unusual case. And its been difficult to come to a decision because 
it remains a mystery as to how the car was taken.
I dont think theres any dispute here that Miss Ks insurance policy allows Admiral to decline 
the claim if Miss K has deliberately or recklessly misled them about the circumstances of the 
cars disappearance. It would also allow them to decline the claim if keys were left in the car 
or left unattended or unsecured.
I think its important to stress the facts that have been established so far. Miss Ks car was 
taken from outside her flat. Three weeks later it was recovered, having been crashed and 
written off. 
The driver is being prosecuted for theft. But the car was recovered with a working key inside 
and with no signs of forced entry. Thats been confirmed by the Police and by the recovery 
yard.
Admiral have had both keys to the car  the one found when it was recovered and the one 
Miss K still had in her possession  examined by an expert locksmith. They confirmed that 
both keys are programmed to Miss Ks car and both are date-stamped and appear to be 
original to the car when it was new.
One key has a retractable blade, the other has a fixed blade. This is consistent with what the 
car manufacturer would have issued with a new car at the time (the car was produced in 
2013).
The key Miss K had in her possession is worn and is likely to have been the main key used 
over the years. They key recovered from the car after the crash is less worn, which is 
consistent with it being a spare key thats not been regularly used.
Miss K says she was only given one key when she bought the car  from a family friend. 
Shes been consistent in saying that - and shes insistent that its the truth. Miss K has a job 
which requires police vetting. She appears to be of good character. There is nothing in her 
past to suggest that she would fabricate a claim or behave dishonestly.
However, it remains entirely unexplained how a working key for the car, which appears to be 
original, found its way into the hands of the individual who was driving the car when it 
crashed.
There are only a limited number of possible routes that key can have taken to end up in the 
wrong hands and in the car when it was recovered. In short, it either went through Miss Ks 
hands on the way or it did not.If it did, then Miss K either gave the key to the person who took the car, or it was taken from 
her without her knowledge. 
The former possibility appears extremely unlikely. It doesnt square with the fact that the 
driver is now being prosecuted for theft. And its extraordinarily difficult to imagine what 
possible motive Miss K would have. The Police have also confirmed that the alleged 
perpetrator is well known to them  as are his associates  and they arent aware of any 
connection to Miss K.
If the latter possibility is true and Miss K had the key, but it was taken without her knowledge, 
then she clearly has  possibly whilst not thinking clearly after the traumatic experience of 
discovering her car had been stolen  misled Admiral about the circumstances of the claim.
If the spare key (the one recovered in the car after the crash) didnt go through Miss Ks 
hands at all, then it must have been retained by a previous owner. And it must somehow 
then have found its way into the hands of persons well-known to the Police, in a different 
locality. And they must have waited for at least six months (from January when Miss K 
bought the car) to steal the car.
Miss Ks car wasnt a high-value or prestige vehicle. It was a popular, standard make and 
model. It was seven years old and had close to 60,000 miles on the clock. Its value at the 
time was around £2,000.
In short, it would be absolutely remarkable if someone had taken the trouble and time to 
retain and/or obtain a working key, track the car to its current location and wait patiently for 
more than six months to steal Miss Ks car. And thats assuming the logistics of that are even 
possible  or probable. Who gave / sold the key to whom? How did they ever come into 
contact? How could such a plan have been hatched and agreed?
On balance, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to assume, on the evidence 
and information available to them at present, that its extraordinarily unlikely that the key 
came to be in the car when it crashed by a route which did not involve it passing through 
Miss Ks hands.
I should also say at this point that Miss K has raised the possibility that the key might have 
been cloned or copied in some way. That appears not to square with the locksmiths expert 
view. 
Its also difficult to see how cloning or copying might have occurred  to produce a physical 
key so closely resembling an original, with a date stamp and so on  without access to an 
original and/or a remarkable degree of sophistication. Why would the perpetrator go to the 
trouble of replicating a date stamp? Why would they take any of these steps to steal a 
seven-year-old, standard model car with 60,000 miles on the clock?
So, Im not going to uphold Miss Ks complaint, because I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Admiral to decline the claim, based on all the evidence and information 
available to them at the time. 
I should stress that its not for me to definitively determine how the car came to be stolen. All 
I can do is to ask myself whether Admiral have acted reasonably. And I believe they have 
because any explanation of these events which doesnt involve the cars spare key passing 
through Miss Ks hands appears extraordinarily unlikely, as things stand at least.That said, Im aware that the perpetrator has yet to appear in court. It is possible that 
something will come to light in those proceedings which changes things. For example, 
evidence may be put forward which shows how the key came to be in the accuseds 
possession.
If that is the case, no doubt Miss K will inform Admiral. I would then expect Admiral to look 
again at the circumstances of the claim and re-consider their decision to decline it, in light of 
any new evidence or information Miss K can provide. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman