DRN-4318650
The complaint
G complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money it lost when it was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, both parties accept that G was the victim of a scam after it made a
faster payment of £3,000. The payment was for the purpose of G entering into a franchise 
agreement / becoming a franchise owner, in a company whom Ill call P. G believed that P 
were a genuine car rental/leasing company.
G had previously leased a car from P, carried out checks on Companies House, met its 
director, had meetings with P about entering into the franchise and had researched potential 
buildings for its branch as part of the franchise. G, subsequently made a payment for £3,000 
on 13 December 2021, under the belief it was to enter into a contract with P regarding the 
franchise with the contract being received within three days.
It later transpired that P had leased cars from another genuine rental company and were 
further fraudulently leasing them on.
After G had made payment and received nothing in return, it realised that it was the victim of 
a scam and contacted Monzo to report it and to see if its funds could be recovered.
Monzo didnt agree to refund G. It said it didnt consider it had taken sufficient steps to check 
who it was paying and what for.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the 
principles set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It said G made the payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing it was genuine. 
One of our Investigators looked into Gs complaint and thought it ought to be partially upheld. 
The Investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Gs claim under the CRM Code. 
They didnt think that Monzo had provided an effective warning prior to G making the 
payment. But they thought that Monzo had been able to establish G made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing all was genuine. They considered that the absence 
of any formal paperwork about the agreement they were entering into should have given G 
cause for concern.
Our Investigator recommended that Monzo refund 50% of the scam money lost  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date Monzo declined the claim under the CRM Code.
Both Monzo and G disagreed with the findings.
As the matter wasnt resolved, it was referred to me to review and make a final decision on 
the outcome of Gs complaint.
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision as I was minded to reach a 
different outcome to that of our Investigator.
In short, I considered the complaint should be upheld in full and I wasnt persuaded that any 
of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement applied in the circumstances of this case. I 
was satisfied that Monzo had not shown that G made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate or that it ignored an 
effective scam warning.
To put things right, I considered that Monzo should refund G the £3,000 lost to the scam and 
pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date their claim was declined under the 
CRM Code until the date of settlement.
Both parties had until 24 August 2023 in which to respond to my provisional decision and
providing any more comments and evidence they wished for me to consider. 
G confirmed it had received my provisional decision and accepted the findings I had 
reached. Monzo didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has given me anything else to consider, I see no
reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill confirm those findings below:
I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money G lost. I 
am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money G lost.
Monzo should also pay interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% 
simple per year. This interest should apply from the date Monzo first declined to 
refund G under the CRM Code, to the date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires Payment Service Providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Monzo declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Monzo to 
establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code apply. Those 
exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; orthe customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
After having carefully considered all of G and Monzos submissions, Im satisfied that Monzo 
has not shown that G made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the person or business with whom 
they transacted with was legitimate or that it ignored an effective scam warning. I will go on 
to explain why I have reached this finding.
Did G have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
G has provided detailed submissions about what happened to both Monzo and our service.
Having reviewed this, Im minded to agree with Gs testimony around why they considered 
they had a reasonable basis of belief that P was a legitimate company and that the franchise 
they believed they were entering into was also legitimate.
Im mindful here that at the time, P was registered on Companies House and one of Gs 
directors had already leased a car from P. So I can see why they reasonably thought 
everything was genuine. G provided detailed submissions to Monzo when G reported the 
scam which outlined that G had held meetings with the director of P, and also detailed what 
they were to expect in return with the franchise agreement and what it was going to involve. 
And they believed that they were paying the £3,000 to secure the franchise for a branch in 
London with the contracts for the agreement being sent shortly after.
Monzos main argument is that there was no paperwork entered into between G and P. I 
understand Monzos argument here, but Im mindful that there are other compelling factors 
which to my mind leads me to conclude that G didnt act unreasonably in the circumstances. 
G had already leased a car from P and considered it was a legitimate company. I dont think 
this is an unreasonable position to take. While formal paperwork had not been signed 
regarding the franchise  I can see why G thought things were ok and the contract would be 
received. 
I note our Investigator and Monzo discussed whether or not the warning it provided to G at 
the time the payment was made was effective. However here, I dont think given the nature 
of the scam that Monzo would have been able to identify the type of scam G was potentially 
at risk of  so I dont think it would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.  
Ive explained above why Im satisfied G had a reasonable basis for believing the payee was 
the person the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services, and/or that the person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
And overall, Im satisfied that Monzo hasnt established any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply here. It follows that Monzo should reimburse G for the losses it 
suffered.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Gs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
 
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay G:The balance of the money lost through this scam, that being the sum of £3,000 (less 
any sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded) within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Gs acceptance of my final decision; plus; 
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo Bank Ltd 
originally declined Gs claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement. *
*If Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax from this part of the award it should provide a tax deduction certificate 
to G so it can reclaim the amount from HMRC if eligible to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Gs complaint. I 
therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay compensation as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman