DRN-4451985
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont reimburse 
the money the company lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in late 2022, a scammer emailed a contractor of B impersonating to be a supplier of 
B. They provided the bank details to where two payments to the supplier had to be made. 
The contractor forwarded the email to B who in turn made the payments as instructed in the 
email. This happened in early November 2022. The scam came to light about two weeks 
later when the genuine supplier contacted B for the payments. 
B immediately reported the scam to their bank Barclays who in turn contacted the recipients 
bank. Unfortunately, no funds reminded in the recipients account. B asked Barclays to 
reimburse them the loss they incurred. Barclays did not agree. Amongst other things the 
bank said B ignored a Confirmation of Payee warning which advised B that the bank couldnt 
verify the account name on the recipients account. 
B said that they were warned by their supplier in their email that some banks do not pick up 
the account name correctly due to the t/a (trading as an element). The supplier said in the 
email that the bank should still allow B to make the payments despite this warning and B 
should click on continue as details are correct and payments will go through. 
B said they had no reason to doubt the instruction as they had in the past seen similar 
warning for genuine payments. Also, B had no reason to doubt that the email wasnt from the 
genuine supplier. This was why B went ahead as instructed. B also said that it should 
receive reimbursement under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM 
Code).
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said that Barclays correctly followed Bs payment instructions.  The payment wasnt 
particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to the bank at the time considering the 
companys normal account and payments activity. The payment also didnt consume all of 
the funds in the account  which might have been an indicator it was at risk of fraud. The 
payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given Barclays much cause for 
concern. So, it is difficult to conclude that the bank missed an opportunity to identify that the 
payment was being made in relation to a scam. 
The investigator also noted the Barclays took action swiftly on being advised of the scam. In 
addition, B isnt covered by the CRM Code as it is not a micro-enterprise. Therefore, the 
bank isnt obliged to consider Bs claim under the Code.
B asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. They said that it would be greatly 
helpful even if a decision could be made to get B a partial refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator, essentially for the same reasons. 
As the Investigator has said, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional 
steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Bs account statements for several months prior to the payment to the 
scammer, to understand the general account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an 
active account. There have been several similar or higher payments out of the account. As 
such I cant say that the payment ought to have stood out as unusual for Barclays to have 
intervened.  
Ultimately, it is a matter for Barclays as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payment stood out 
sufficiently from the prior account activity to reasonably have prompted Barclays to take 
further action. Im not persuaded that there was enough here for me to find Barclays was at 
fault in carrying out Bs payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
Further, from what I can see, there was no delay on part of Barclays in contacting the 
recipients bank on being advised of the scam. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
account. 
On some occasions, its possible to consider whether a customer is covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code which came into effect from 28 May 2019. 
However, B arent not covered by the Code. Where the customer is a business (as in this 
case), the Code only applies if they were a micro-enterprise at the time the transaction took 
place. 
For this purpose, a micro-enterprise is essentially an enterprise which employs fewer than 
10 persons. And if they employ fewer than 10 persons, then at least one of their annual 
turnover or total gross assets should not exceed €2 million. 
In this case B isnt a micro-enterprise as it employed more than 10 persons at the relevant 
time. So unfortunately, it isnt covered by the CRM Code either. 
I am very sorry to see that the loss has, understandably, caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience. It was a sophisticated fraud, and I can see why B found the scammers email believable. However, what I am considering here is whether the loss to B was caused by any 
error or omission by the bank. 
I appreciate the directors strength of feeling on this matter. They strongly feel that Barclays 
should at least reimbursement part of their loss. But I can only make an award against a 
bank if that bank has done something wrong, which has led to a loss. In this case, for the 
reasons given I dont think that there was any error or omission on part of Barclays which led 
to Bs loss. As such I cant ask it to refund their loss in full or in part
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman