DRN-2959796
The complaint
Mr H and Ms M are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) 
handled their claim under their buildings insurance following an escape of water. The policy 
was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr H.
What happened
Briefly, Mr H made a claim under his policy for damage caused when water escaping from 
the property upstairs damaged his home. The details of this complaint are well known to 
both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision with reference to the evidence where I consider it appropriate.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint, but I wont be asking RSA to pay more than our 
investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Ive only considered the issues from the date Mr H reported the claim in July 2019 to the 
date he brought his complaint to this service in January 2021. Thats because RSA hadnt 
completed work on the claim and Mr Hs complaint was about the delays. Any concerns Mr 
H has about the final settlement of the claim will be addressed separately so I wont be 
looking at the value of the final settlement or any delays which may have occurred after 
January 2021.
To be clear, RSA hasnt disputed that there were delays handling Mr Hs claim, and that 
other issues wouldve caused him inconvenience. Our investigator proposed that RSA pays 
Mr H £600 compensation for the shortfalls in handling the claim, and RSA agreed. However, 
Mr H doesnt think its enough. Ive considered the timeline of events to see whether the 
delays were reasonable or unavoidable.
During the first two months after the claim, the matter was out of RSAs hands while 
liability was investigated. The leak was from the flat above Mr Hs flat, so 
investigation into the shared ceiling/floor caused the delay. I cant hold RSA 
responsible for this unavoidable delay.
The leak continued and caused ongoing damage. When Mr H reported this to RSA, it 
became apparent that he had let his flat, albeit very briefly. RSA needed to look into 
whether the claim would be covered at all because it wasnt aware of the temporary 
let, so Im satisfied that this was a further unavoidable delay.
Once RSA decided to accept the claim, Mr H asked for a cash settlement. RSA 
asked for repair quotes so that it could consider his request, and chased progress 
with Mr H on a few occasions. It was approaching three months before Mr H provided 
the quotes. I cant fairly hold RSA responsible for that delay.
For the following two months, its not clear why RSA didnt progress the claim any 
quicker. There was some discussion between Mr H and RSA about the betterment 
evident in the quotes, the value of the cash settlement, whether RSA would complete 
the repairs, and provision of alternative accommodation (AA). I accept that this took 
time to do. But I think there were some avoidable delays between contacts which 
warrants compensation, and RSA agreed.
By this time, it was March 2020 and RSA was unable to instruct the repairs due to the 
national lockdown. I cant hold RSA responsible for the delay here. While it seems that this 
unavoidable delay makes its earlier delay even more of an inconvenience for Mr H because 
the repairs couldve at least been started, it wouldnt be fair to hold RSA responsible for 
anything more than the relatively short delays during those two months. Thats because it 
couldnt reasonably have known that inconvenience caused by delays at that stage wouldve 
been impacted further by the lockdown. It simply wasnt foreseeable. So, to be clear, 
compensation is for the sporadic delays and does not include the time waiting for the repairs 
during lockdown.
Repairs started in November and were due to be completed by mid-December, but RSA 
hadnt arranged for the property to be dried out. Mr H complained to RSA about progress of 
the claim in early December 2020 because he and his family had been in AA and were due 
to move out in mid-December. However, RSA said the work wouldnt be completed until mid-
January 2021 because of the drying delays. Further AA had to be arranged. I can see that 
this wouldve caused Mr H distress and inconvenience, especially over a festive period when 
accommodation would be limited under ordinary circumstances, let alone during national 
restrictions. While RSA covered the cost of the AA, Mr H didnt think it was suitable for his 
young family to be in hotels. I think thats a fair comment. I realise that it wouldve been 
difficult to find AA during this period, but the delay here was due to RSAs mistake of not 
arranging to dry the property.
Overall, I can see that there delays on and off throughout the claim, but I cant fairly say that 
RSA caused significant avoidable delays until after the repair work started. Mr H would 
always have needed to move into AA, but I think RSAs mistakes extended the time that he 
was unable to live in his own home. This delay amounts to around six weeks which is from 
mid-December, when the work was due to finish, to the end of January when Mr H brought 
his complaint to this service. I think there were also some minor yet avoidable delays in the 
two months leading up to the national restrictions. Im satisfied that compensation is 
warranted for the inconvenience caused by the avoidable delays and the mistakes RSA 
made, as Ive described.
RSA agreed with our investigator that a sum of £600 compensation is fair. Having decided 
that many of the delays were unavoidable, and that Mr H wouldve always experienced some 
inconvenience because of the escape of water, I think the sum of £600 is fair and 
reasonable for the additional inconvenience which its fair to say RSA contributed towards.
I know Mr H doesnt think £600 is enough in the circumstances, but he hasnt provided 
anything further for me to consider. I dont underestimate the effect this whole situation 
mustve had on Mr H, especially after listening to his calls with our investigator. But, taking a 
step back from it all, Im only able to make an award for the impact on him which was caused 
directly by RSA. RSA wasnt at fault for the original escape of water or for the unusual 
circumstances which delayed the overall repair. So, as Ive explained above, I see no reason 
to ask it to pay any more.
To be clear, if Mr H still has concerns about any events which took place after the end of 
January 2021, those issues must be dealt with separately to this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance plc must:
pay Mr H £600 compensation in recognition of the impact its avoidable delays and 
mistake in drying the property had on Mr H and his family during an already difficult 
time.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman