The complaint
Ms H has complained about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with two claims she 
made under her group medical insurance policy. She's also complained that she was unable 
to get continuous cover when the policy finished as AXA didn't provide her medical 
certificate before the policy lapsed.
What happened
Ms H called AXA on 13 March 2019 to say her GP had referred her for a colonoscopy. 
AXA thought this was a preventative measure due to her family history and said that wasn't 
covered by her policy. Ms H said she'd also had some changes in bowel movements. So, 
AXA said it would reconsider the claim if she got a referral from her GP on that basis. Ms H 
provided this in a referral letter dated 18 March which AXA said it received on 22 March.
AXA said it then requested Ms H's medical records and chased them up from the GP. 
However, it still hadn't received them by 16 May, by which point Ms H already been given a 
NHS appointment, so didn't want to continue with the claim.
In April 2019 Ms H made a separate claim for venous hypertension. AXA said it initially 
turned down the claim as it appeared the required treatment wouldn't be sufficient to require 
a referral to a specialist. However, on reviewing the claim on 24 May it agreed to offer a first 
consultation. AXA said to progress this Ms H needed to provide her insurance certificate 
from her previous insurer. It said as she didn't that it hadn't been able to progress her claim. 
Ms H said she'd already provided the certificate but didn't need to continue with the claim as 
she was seen by the NHS for this on 12 June. AXA said Ms H had sent in a different 
document and not the certificate it needed.
Ms H was unhappy with how AXA dealt with these claims. She also complained that it hadn't 
provided her with an updated membership certificate. She said this meant she hadn't been 
able to get continuous cover elsewhere. AXA said as the group policy was lapsing it had 
offered Ms H an individual private policy instead, so she could have continuous cover. It 
apologised that it hadn't provided an updated membership certificate when it should have 
done. But didn't think Ms H needed this in order to get a policy elsewhere. As she was 
unhappy with AXA's response Ms H brought her complaint to us. She said her broker hadn't 
been able to find a new policy without the membership certificate.
Our investigator didn't recommend that Ms H's complaint be upheld. He said AXA had acted 
reasonably in requesting Ms H's medical records for her colonoscopy claim. He also thought 
it was reasonable for it to ask for her medical certificate to progress the claim for venous 
hypertension. He thought AXA should have done more to let Ms H know that she'd provided 
the wrong document. But thought that by the time it needed the document Ms H had already 
been offered a NHS appointment. So, he didn't think it had affected her treatment. Our 
investigator thought it had been Ms H's choice to turn down individual cover with AXA which 
DRN-1676216would have meant she didn't have a break in cover. And he also thought she'd have been 
able to get cover elsewhere even without the certificate. 
Ms H didn't agree as she said AXA had unfairly turned down her claim and caused delays. 
She said her broker had been unable to find a policy due to the break in cover and explained 
that the experience of dealing with AXA had caused her considerable distress and 
anxiety. She asked for an ombudsman's decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms H's policy covers her for eligible treatment for medical 
conditions. The terms say that preventative treatment isn't covered. 
I've listened to the call where Ms H asked for the referral for a colonoscopy. Ms H said her 
GP had recommended this due to her family history. AXA's representative asked her if she'd 
had any symptoms and she said that she hadn't. After further discussion Ms H said she'd 
also had a change in bowel habits which her GP was concerned about. AXA said if Ms H 
obtained a referral from her GP on that basis it would be able to reconsider it. 
I'm pleased to see that after Ms H provided a referral from her GP AXA requested her 
medical records. I think this was reasonable given the GP's referral was dated a few days 
after she'd called to make a claim. I can see that AXA chased the GP for the medical 
records, but they still hadn't received them by the time Ms H was offered a 
NHS appointment. I can understand Ms H's frustration at the delay here but I don't think the 
delay was due to AXA, as it hadn't received the medical records it needed. 
The GP referral letter for hypertension asked for a specialist to review, investigate and 
manage suspected hypertension. So, I do think it was clear that the GP was suggesting a 
referral was needed. However, given the wording also suggested that Ms H had suffered 
from these in the past, I'm satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to require a copy of Ms H's 
previous medical certificate. 
AXA said it received Ms H's hypertension claim on 12 April and turned it down on 15 April. It 
then agreed to review it on 23 April. While I do think there was an unnecessary delay here of 
12 days, I'm not going to require AXA to compensate Ms H for that. I say that because I can 
see that AXA told Ms H it would need a copy of her insurance certificate to progress the 
claim. I understand Ms H had previously sent information but that related to the group 
scheme rather than her individual certificate. And AXA told Ms H that was the wrong 
document.
I can't see that Ms H had provided the certificate AXA asked for by the time she'd been 
offered the NHS appointment that she accepted. So, AXA wouldn't have been able to 
progress the claim even if it had agreed to sooner. I understand Ms H feels that AXA should 
have requested the certificate from her at the start of the policy but I don't agree that AXA 
was required to do that, as it asked for it when it needed the information. 
I can see that Ms H said it was difficult to find new cover, at a reasonable cost, without AXA 
having provided the certificate of medical cover at the time it was meant to. AXA accepted it 
didn't provide the certificate when it should have done and apologised.
I can see that Ms H's broker said it was unable to get a different policy due to her 
'disclosures'. So, I don't think that's due to not having the certificate. Also, AXA said it provided cover without having the certificate, so I think it's most likely other insurers would 
have done as well. And even if Ms H hadn't been unable to secure any other policy, I can 
see AXA also offered individual cover. While I can understand Ms H's reluctance to take this 
due to her ongoing complaint, it does mean AXA isn't to blame for any break in cover, as it 
offered an alternative. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms H but I'm not going to require 
AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman