DRN-3722653
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank when he attempted to switch his account to another provider.
What happened
Mr T had a current account with Tesco Bank. In 2021, Tesco Bank decided to close all 
current accounts and gave its customers until 15 November 2021 to use the Current Account 
Switching Service (CASS) to switch to other providers. Mr T wanted to switch over to a 
business which Ill call N. He says he completed the application with N on 15 November 
2021 but, around two weeks later, N informed him that the switch hadnt been completed.
Mr T contacted Tesco Bank, which told him that he couldnt switch because of the type of 
account he wanted to switch to. It later accepted that this information was wrong because 
the type of account a customer was changing to didnt affect whether the request was 
accepted or rejected. In any event, Tesco Bank said it hadnt received a switch request from 
N, so it wasnt in a position to accept or reject it. Tesco Bank credited £25 to Mr Ts Clubcard 
account as an apology for the incorrect information hed been given. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Tesco Banks response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
said he had no knowledge of the Clubcard account and that £25 was a derisory amount.
During the investigation by this service, Tesco Bank explained that, when a customer wants 
to switch to another bank, it usually receives the switch request through the CASS central 
system. It said that the process is then for the request to be loaded on to Tesco Banks own 
switching system, creating certain tasks to be worked by its Switching Team. Following this, 
it either accepts or rejects the switch request. 
Mr T said that N told him they sent the switch request to Tesco Bank on 15 November 2021. 
But Tesco Bank said it didnt receive a switch request. It said that, due to its decision to 
close all current accounts and the deadline of 15 November 2021, there was an auto-reject 
in place on its system from 16 November 2021. It said that N could possibly have submitted 
a request on 15 November 2021, but it may not have been uploaded on to the CASS central 
system before the cut-off time that day. Tesco Bank said that would mean the switch request 
was in effect received by the CASS system after 15 November 2021, so it would have been 
rejected automatically by Tesco Banks system. 
Tesco Bank said that each switch request has a unique reference number, which shows the 
date and time it was received by the CASS central system. Tesco Bank said it doesnt have 
access to the system any more. But it said that N should be able to access the details.
Our Investigator didnt think Tesco Bank had done anything wrong here. But Mr T didnt 
agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank has provided a screenshot of the account switch records for Mr Ts account. 
These confirm details of a switch which took place when Mr T opened his account with 
Tesco Bank. But there are no details of any other account switches or requests. Nor is there 
any record in the account engagement notes of any switch request. So, Im satisfied that 
Tesco Bank didnt receive a switch request from N.
I have also seen a letter from N, responding to a complaint by Mr T. This confirms that Mr T 
requested the switch on 15 November 2021. The letter says Whilst your switch was 
requested on or before the deadline, the switch start date has unfortunately fallen after this 
time. This means the switch had been automatically rejected by Tesco Bank. N apologised 
for the inconvenience this caused Mr T, as he had to complete a manual switch over. 
I find this letter to be confirmation that Ns switch request wasnt uploaded before the cut-off 
time on 15 November 2021. Its not in doubt that Mr T himself requested the switch within 
the deadline. But I understand Ns letter to be saying that the switch wasnt processed within 
the deadline. N doesnt say what date or time it uploaded the request, only that the switch 
start date fell after the deadline. I think the switch start date would be the date the request 
was loaded on to the CASS system. So I find it likely that the earliest the request was 
uploaded by N was effectively 16 November 2021, by which time all applications were being 
rejected automatically by Tesco Bank. This is what Tesco Bank suggested may have 
happened and I find that to be the most likely scenario here.
On balance, I find that the switch request wasnt submitted within the deadline. Therefore, I 
dont find it to be Tesco Banks fault that the switch wasnt completed.
Tesco Bank has acknowledged that it gave Mr T some incorrect information about the 
reason the switch had failed. It has offered compensation of £25 for that, which I think is fair. 
As Mr T said he isnt aware of a Clubcard account, Tesco Bank has offered to pay the £25 to 
him by cheque or bank transfer instead, which I think is a fair solution. 
I realise Mr T will be disappointed with this outcome and Im sorry for that. But I dont find 
that the failure of the switch (and therefore the inconvenience associated with it) was Tesco 
Banks fault. So Im not going to ask it to do any more.
As the £25 hasnt yet been paid to Mr T by cheque or bank transfer, Im going to direct 
Tesco Bank to do this. My decision is therefore that Tesco Bank should pay £25 to Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay £25 to Mr T by cheque or bank transfer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman