DRN-1567842
The complaint
Ms D has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
What happened
Ms D changed from a fee free bank account to an URCA in September 2016 following a 
conversation with Bank of Scotland in a branch.
Ms D says the only reason she took out the URCA was because she was told by Bank of 
Scotland that:
having her mortgage account in the same financial institution as her current account 
was the best option
having an URCA would give her access to better rates when she re-mortgaged in the 
future
having the URCA would improve her credit score 
Our adjudicator looked at Ms Ds complaint and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. Ms D 
disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D has submitted her correspondence with Bank of Scotland and provided a summary of 
her complaint and her circumstances at the time.
Bank of Scotland has provided a record of its discussion with Ms D at the time of the sale, an 
application form which Ms D has signed to acknowledge receipt of information about the 
URCA, and her account details. I shall refer to these below as Bank of Scotlands record.
I've started by thinking about whether Ms D was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
Ms D has told us she had previously had a fee free bank account. And Bank of Scotlands 
record shows that it described its fee free account product as well as the URCA to her. So, I 
think Ms D knew she could have a free account if she wished to.  
I think its possible that Bank of Scotland said it would be a best option to have her current 
account with it as well as her mortgage. But this was only advice, which I will consider below. 
It didnt remove her choice in the matter.
Ms D says she was told that the URCA would improve her chances of getting access to 
better mortgage rates in the future and would improve her credit score. Bank of Scotlands 
record of the URCA sale discussion shows that when the benefits of the URCA were 
highlighted to Ms D, neither of these were in the product or featured in the discussion. So, I 
think its more likely than not these didnt affect her making a choice.
For completeness, I note that Bank of Scotland has also provided evidence that Ms D 
changed her mortgage product with it online in the same month that the URCA was sold. As 
the mortgage change was online, she changed her mortgage with no involvement from Bank 
of Scotland staff. So, I dont think the discussion about the URCA affected her decision 
about the mortgage change that same month either and Ms D hasnt said it did.
So, I think its more likely than not that Ms D was aware she had a choice and chose to take 
out the URCA for the benefits it did contain.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Ms D to take it, but Ms 
D says it did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Ms Ds 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. 
So, Bank of Scotland needed to provide Ms D with enough information about the URCA to 
make an informed choice. And in recommending the URCA, it also needed to take adequate 
steps to ensure that the URCA was a reasonable fit for Ms Ds circumstances.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including phone insurance, travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover and a fee free overdraft of up to £300. Ms D paid 
£12 a month for it.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but Bank of Scotlands record shows that 
it described the URCA to Ms D in detail. And I think the URCA was suitable for Ms D. I say 
this because she had a mobile phone and subsequently registered it for cover. She was 
interested in travelling as she told us she travelled up to three times a year in the UK and 
Europe. She had a car and commented herself that the breakdown cover would have come 
in handy if shed needed it. 
She expressed an interest in an overdraft in the sale discussion and occasionally benefitted 
from the URCAs better overdraft rates after taking out the account. And she could have 
taken advantage of the other benefits offered.
From what Ms D has said about her personal circumstances at the time she took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop her taking advantage of many of the URCAs 
benefits. And she couldve closed the account at any time but didnt for several years.
Ms D says she had a pre-existing medical condition that wouldve affected the travel 
insurance at the time of sale. But Bank of Scotlands record shows that she didnt raise this 
during the sale when asked. But even if she had, she was only required to declare the 
condition. And it is more likely than not that the condition wouldve been covered either for free or for a small additional premium. So, I dont think this would have put Ms D off buying 
the URCA when she did.
So, in my view, Ms D knew she had a choice about the URCA and decided to take it; the 
URCA was suitable for Ms D, and there was no information that she wasnt given that would 
have put her off buying it. And I dont think she has lost out as result of anything Bank of 
Scotland may have done wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman