DRN-3095804
The complaint
Miss W complains Santander UK Plc hasnt explained to her why shes getting notifications 
about one-time passcodes being sent to her and what its done with her account.
What happened
Miss W has had an account with Santander for many years.
In 2012 Santander said to Miss W that shed need to register a mobile number with them in 
order to use her account fully. Miss W had a mobile phone at the time, but as it was a work 
mobile she didnt want to give Santander the number. So Santander agreed it would make 
sure this was noted on Miss Ws records.
In 2019 Miss W noticed that whenever she tried to make an online payment using her online 
banking a screen would appear saying shed need a one-time passcode to complete the 
payment and that Santander would be sending one to a number ending 1111. Miss W 
complained to Santander saying that she wasnt registered for this service  and hadnt been 
since 2012  and wanted to know how this had happened. Miss W was unhappy with 
Santanders response and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ws complaint and upheld it awarding £150 in 
compensation. Our investigator also recommended that Santander offer Miss W an 
alternative way to authenticate. Santander didnt agree it had done anything wrong, and so 
didnt agree to paying compensation or offering Miss W an alternative way to communicate. 
So Ive been asked to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive spoken to Miss W and its clear that shed had a very frustrating experience with 
Santander because she opted in 2012 not to register her mobile number with them. The 
mobile number she had at the time was a work number, so I can understand why she was 
reluctant to register it. The number, for example, would have been given to someone else if 
she left her job. I can see that Santander made a note of the fact that Miss W didnt want to 
have her mobile number registered  her records refer to the fact that she was de-registered. 
At some point, Santander added a dummy number to Miss Ws profile  the number ending 
1111. I can see why Santander might have done this  it was in effect a workaround. But I 
can also see that this had consequences too as it meant Miss W starting to receive 
notifications in 2019 saying that in order to complete certain online transactions a one-time 
passcode had been sent to this number. Miss W was understandably worried about this and 
so contacted Santander for an explanation.
Santanders initial written response to Miss Ws request for an explanation wasnt great. I 
think thats true of responses Miss W got over the phone too  shes told me that she spoke 
to staff at Santander and they kept on telling her things that she knew werent true. I accept 
that Santanders later responses were better. In my opinion, however, the damage was done 
by then. So I agree with our investigator that this complaint ought to be upheld, and that 
Santander ought to pay Miss W compensation, albeit for different reasons.
Having spoken to Miss W, its clear that she understands what strong customer 
authentication is and why its important. More importantly, its clear that Miss W has a mobile 
phone number that shes both able and willing to register. Her frustration with Santanders 
response has got in the way of her doing so to date. Again, I can understand that. In the 
circumstances, Im not going to require Santander to offer Miss W an alternative way of 
authenticating  she doesnt need one  but I do hope both can put this complaint behind 
them as Miss W will be able to do more with her account once shes registered her mobile 
number.
Putting things right
Santander has caused Miss W avoidable and unnecessary anger and frustration. I agree 
with our investigator that £150 is a fair and reasonable way to compensate her. So thats the 
award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to pay Miss W £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman