DRN-4203025
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy British Gas Insurance Limited charged a £99 excess for a repair made to 
his boiler under a boiler care policy. 
What happened
The full details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy says, Excess or fixed fee Your statement shows how much excess or 
fixed fee youve agree to pay each time we complete a repair or replace your 
appliance whether: you report a fault to us.
Mr B has said he thinks the cost of the repair would have come to less than £99 so 
he should not have had to pay that amount. However, while I agree principally the 
cost of the part wouldnt have, this doesnt factor in other costs such as the engineers 
time, experience, call out charge etc that would usually be factored in. However, 
putting that aside, that isnt how the policy works that Mr B has taken out. 
While termed an excess, my understanding of the policy Mr B agreed to was that it 
provided an annual service for the boiler and, should any repair be needed, he will 
only be charged £99. So, the policy does not work in the same way as Mr B has 
suggested a claim under a motor insurance policy would be handled. Where the 
excess in that instance is a self-insured amount which a claim cost would have to 
exceed before the insurance policy will provide cover.
Mr B has pointed out that the service sheet provided by the engineer did not list any 
chargeable work in the appropriate box. However, I see in the box next to it under 
Other comments it says Repaired leak on cold water inlet + test. All OK. Im 
satisfied from the information available to me that Mr B notified British Gas of a leak 
and that the engineer repaired this prior to conducting the annual service of the 
boiler. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Mr B was correctly charged the excess 
for the repair in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman