DRN-3796714
The complaint
Mr C complains that hed been clear when speaking to Lloyds Bank PLC that information 
about a mortgage application in his sole name was highly sensitive, and must remain 
confidential. But he said Lloyds told his wife about the application.
What happened
Mr C told us he had visited Lloyds to find out how much he could borrow to buy a property. 
He said hed been very clear with Lloyds that it was only to contact him, and only using the 
mobile number he gave it. But he said that on 12 October 2021, someone from Lloyds called 
his home number and disclosed information to his wife about his mortgage application.
Mr C said this caused great distress at the time, as his wife had known nothing about this.
And it had an ongoing effect on the couples relationship. Mr C said hed complained about
this to Lloyds, and hed also made a subject access request (SAR) asking for all data
relevant to this complaint, including the audio recording of the call. He said hed received no
data from his SAR, and no response to his complaint.
Mr C told us about the effect this was still having on him and his wife. He wanted Lloyds to
pay compensation.
Lloyds said it hadnt yet replied to Mr Cs complaint, because when it contacted him he didnt
want to give out the personal information it asked for, to confirm his ID. It wrote to him after
his complaint had been received by our service.
When Lloyds wrote to Mr C about his complaint, it said Mr C had confirmed the call wasnt
from the mortgage advisor who had assisted him, but directly from Lloyds. Mrs C had said
someone called her about her mortgage, which is also with Lloyds, and that person told her
there was another mortgage application for the property. But Lloyds said it hadnt been able
to trace any calls to Mr Cs landline on 12 October 2021. And it couldnt see any evidence to
suggest it spoke to Mrs C about Mr Cs sole mortgage enquiry.
Lloyds said no property was discussed as part of Mr Cs application, and no property was
added to the information for his possible mortgage. It also said if Mr Cs wife was contacted
about her mortgage, then that would be done by the mortgage servicing department. And
that department doesnt have access to the mortgage application system, so they just
wouldnt be able to see that hed made an application. Lloyds said it didnt seem probable
that anyone from that team would discuss the application in Mr Cs sole name with Mrs C.
Lloyds also said it couldnt find a SAR made by Mr C in January. Its team had now checked,
and the only information relevant to Mr Cs mortgage application was his agreement in
principle, but it would continue looking for calls Mr C had made or received.
Our investigator contacted Lloyds to ask it for screenshots of its computerised call logging
system, so it could show that it had searched for calls on 12 October, and not found any.
Lloyds has sent this to our service, and it does confirm no calls were located on that date.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt disbelieve
Mr Cs testimony. Lloyds may have made the call and not recorded it. But she said there was
no record of this call. And she didnt think she could fairly say Lloyds should compensate Mr
C for having disclosed his personal information to a third party when there was no evidence
to support this.
Mr C didnt agree. He said Lloyds still hadnt sent him any information for his SAR, it was just
giving him excuses. And he felt that we were letting Lloyds fob him off. He didnt think we
could make a decision without the SAR information, which he said we werent pushing for.
Mr C wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I should start by saying that I dont know how Mrs C found out about Mr Cs discussions 
with Lloyds about possible mortgage lending to him alone. I dont doubt what Mr C has 
told us, that Mr C had taken steps to make sure his enquiry remained private, but Mrs C 
did find out, and that this has been deeply upsetting for them both. But for me to uphold 
his complaint against Lloyds on this point, I would have to be satisfied its more likely 
than not that Lloyds rang Mrs C, and in the process mentioned a second mortgage 
application from the property.
What Lloyds has said makes me think that this isnt whats most likely to have 
happened. It has shown us that it made no calls to Mr Cs landline number on the day 
he says this call was received. And importantly, it also told him, and us, that the team 
which makes calls about mortgages just wouldnt be able to see the application hed 
made for a mortgage promise, because it was at much too early a stage.
Ive also looked at Mr Cs mortgage promise, and although it carries Mr Cs address, it
clearly isnt a mortgage application for that property. The document makes clear that Mr 
C hadnt yet found a property.
For these reasons, I cannot say that its most likely Mrs C did find out about Mr Cs 
mortgage discussions with Lloyds because Lloyds let this slip in a separate phone call to 
Mrs C.
Mr C has said that I couldnt reach any conclusion before the documentation for his SAR 
had been sent to him, and us. But it seems Mr C is hoping his SAR will produce some 
evidence of the call made to his wife on 12 October. I dont think a SAR made by Mr C is 
likely to produce evidence of a call which was made to Mrs C, about her mortgage. And 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds has already looked for this call. It hasnt been able to find it. 
So I do think I have sufficient evidence to reach a conclusion on this case now.
I think there is one point of Mr Cs complaint which should be upheld. Lloyds has said it 
has no record of a SAR having been received from Mr C in January 2022. But the 
complaint notes Lloyds has provided show it knew in March 2022 that Mr C had 
understood hed made this request already, and that he was concerned he hadnt 
received anything. I think it would have been reasonable for Lloyds to process Mr Cs 
SAR request then, and it did not do so.
I do think Lloyds has provided a reply to Mr C now, because it said in its complaint 
response letter to him, that it couldnt find the information he wanted. But I also think it wouldve been better to provide a separate, formal response to Mr Cs request. Because 
Lloyds didnt do so, that meant Mr C remained concerned Lloyds might be hiding 
something. I should stress that I dont think Lloyds is hiding anything, but if it had 
responded more promptly, then this could perhaps have been avoided. So I think Lloyds 
should pay compensation of £100 to Mr C now, to make up for the distress he was 
caused by not getting a response to his SAR.
I know Mr C will be disappointed by this, but I dont think Lloyds has to do more than 
that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds replied to accept my provisional decision. Mr C didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman