DRN-3672365
The complaint
Mrs M complains TSB Bank plc have taken the following actions regarding a credit card debt 
she has with them:
Didnt contact her at her new address
Defaulted her account unfairly given the amount owing
Passed the debt over to three different debt collection agents
Was unhappy with how her concerns about the account were dealt with
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs Ms credit card account with TSB was closed and they registered a 
default with the credit reference agencies (CRAs). I understand Mrs M became aware of this 
when a debt collector got in touch with her in November 2021. As a result of this, she 
complained to TSB.
In summary TSB said:
They wrote to the address they had on file and couldnt see shed told them about the 
new address.
Theyd acted correctly by defaulting the account, as shed not made payments to the 
account as expected.
The terms and conditions of her account allowed them to ask debt collectors to try 
and get in touch with her.
When Mrs M raised these concerns TSB felt she was passed around a lot  so they 
paid her £50 for this.
As TSB didnt uphold her complaint overall, Mrs M asked us to look into things. One of our 
Investigators did so. Ultimately, she felt TSB had tried to help Mrs M, but said the default 
should have been applied in August 2020  rather than February 2021.
TSB accepted this outcome, but Mrs M didnt, saying:
Is there a way of her credit file issue being resolved as a default affects her for six 
years which is very serious and has really impacted her
Shes sure she phoned them in 2021 checking all her contact details were up to date
They put this debt out to three agencies which given the amount owing is a step too 
far
The outstanding balance needs to be agreed
Overall she said shed like compensation as she thinks TSBs actions were brutal and its 
like she owed them millions. As Mrs M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mrs Ms complaint in considerably less detail than she has. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Didnt contact her at her new address
Mrs M says she changed her address around mid-2020 and says shes sure she told TSB 
this. In her submissions to TSB, it seems they were left with the impression shed been into 
the branch to change her address. In her submissions to us, shes said she is sure shed 
have changed her address over the phone.
Either way, when Mrs M has been asked for more details regarding when she contacted 
TSB about the address change, shes not been able to provide a clear recollection of when 
and how she did this. Mrs M has also said she was getting her post redirected.
Memories can and do fade, so I dont find it particularly unusual and draw no automatic 
negative inferences from Mrs M not being able to be crystal clear about what happened. But 
TSB have said they have no record of Mrs M changing her address with them which is 
supported by their notes showing no record of any attempted address change.  
Where information is incomplete or contradictory, as things are here, then I have to decide 
what I think is more likely than not, taking into account the information I do have.
I cant see any reason why TSB wouldnt have updated Mrs Ms address on their system if 
shed contacted them as she said, unless theyd made an error. But, even allowing for an 
error, Id still usually expect some kind of footprint to have been left  but there isnt a record 
of any attempt in mid-2020. Nor is there any record of Mrs Ms attempt in 2021 where shes 
said she contacted them to make sure her address was up to date. So, given that, I think its 
more likely than not Mrs M didnt update her address with TSB.
In addition, I cant ignore that shes said she had a redirection service for her post  this 
would suggest anything TSB did send during this time would still have been received by her.
Ultimately though, I need to assess TSBs actions, and here I find its more likely than not 
they havent made a mistake.
Defaulted her account unfairly given the amount owing
Ive noted Mrs Ms concerns about the default process and her comments that their actions 
are like she owes them millions.I need to make it clear to Mrs M TSB are allowed to do this for effectively any amount 
outstanding  as long as theyve followed the correct processes. So, what I need to decide is 
whether I think TSB have acted fairly, and followed the correct processes, for defaulting 
Mrs Ms account.
Here, I can see Mrs Ms financial difficulties started towards the end of 2019 where she 
wasnt able to make payments leading to her going over her credit limit of £2,900. In 
February 2020 she called TSB, who refunded fees and charges which brought her account 
back under this limit.
Ive seen Mrs M raised concerns about TSB helping her, but I think they have by refunding 
these amounts at this time. I can also see TSB asked about putting in place a repayment 
plan to support her, but she didnt want to go ahead with that. Instead, she agreed shed 
repay £100 in February 2020, and then the remainder of February 2020s minimum 
payment, along with all of March 2020s minimum payment  in March 2020. Again, I think 
TSB allowing this delayed payment was an attempt to help her.
Mrs Ms statement dated 1 April 2020 shows these payments were never made. The 
statement also shows the minimum payment now due is £463.81 which includes missed 
payments. 
In April, May and July 2020 £100 payments were made. But, in the August 2020 the 
minimum payment was now £473.99  having stayed at over £400 since February 2020.
So, by not making the minimum payments Mrs M was technically in default of the agreement 
she held with TSB  as she was required to make the minimum payments each month.
As a result of that, TSB could have defaulted Mrs Ms account at this point. Clearly Mrs M 
was going through a difficult time, and TSB were attempting to support her by refunding 
payments in February 2020, delaying the acceptance of payments and offering to review her 
income and expenditure to see what they could do to help.
After this time, with Mrs M not making the agreed payments, TSB kept trying to contact her 
to discuss the account. But, they werent able to reach her on the phone number they had for 
her, nor were they getting any responses to their letters.
At this time, Mrs M did know her account was over its agreed credit limit and had agreed to 
repay it, but she didnt do so.
By January 2021, as Mrs M hadnt been in contact for some time, TSB started their recovery 
procedures.
This included a letter dated 1 January 2021 saying if Mrs M doesnt repay £436.39 by 
19 January 2021, then her account may be closed and a default be recorded.
On 23 January 2021 with no payment being received TSB sent a formal demand for the full 
outstanding balance and explained if Mrs M didnt make this repayment theyd report a 
default to the CRAs. They also explained the CRAs keep this information on record for six 
years.
As the balance wasnt paid off, Mrs Ms account was then defaulted and reported to the 
CRAs in February 2021.As I explained earlier, I need to be satisfied TSB have acted correctly. Given theyd told 
Mrs M what was needed in February 2020, but no payments were received, I think they have 
acted fairly in recording a default. Theyve sent Mrs M the relevant notices warning her of 
what would happen  and as Ive explained above I dont think its TSBs fault if these 
werent received by Mrs M.
So, I think they were right to default Mrs Ms account  and that means I wont be telling 
them to remove the default itself. I do though think they should have recorded it earlier.
The general guidance is that lenders such as TSB can record a default once someone is 
behind on their repayments by around three months and should have done so once theyre 
behind by around six months.
Here, the default wasnt registered until February 2021. But, as Ive set out above, I think it 
was clear Mrs M hadnt kept to the agreement proposals agreed in February 2020. This 
would have been clear by the payments Mrs M had said she was going to make not being 
received by March 2020. TSB made further attempts to contact Mrs M after this, but these 
werent successful.
Our Investigator said TSB should backdate the date of the default to August 2020  six 
months after the conversation in February 2020. Here, as Mrs M hadnt made repayments 
shed agreed to and they hadnt heard from her, I think allowing the maximum of six months 
is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, Ill require TSB to update the date of the default to 21 August 2020  exactly six months 
after the February 2020 conversation. Theyll also need to remove any interest or charges 
that wouldnt have been applied in the account had been defaulted at this time. Following 
this, TSB should write out to Mrs M to let her know what the outstanding balance is now.
Passed the debt over to three different debt collection agents
Mrs Ms concerns here are that she thinks its unreasonable of TSB to have passed her debt 
over to three different debt collectors.
TSB have explained they couldnt get in touch with Mrs M, and none of the debt collectors 
overlapped  so it was only one debt collector at a time trying to get in touch with her.
Ultimately TSB are allowed to ask another party to collect a debt on their behalf  this is set 
out in the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms account. And, Id say its their commercial 
judgement about how many different parties to ask to contact one of their customers.
Id have a concern if TSB asked multiple debt collectors to get in touch with Mrs M at the 
same time  but even then, itd only be if they were all successfully making contact with her, 
which might feel like harassment.
But it was only the last debt collector who seems to have successfully made contact  as it 
was their contact in November 2021 which prompted Mrs Ms complaint.
So, as TSB are allowed to ask a debt collector to trace Mrs M, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest multiple people were trying or in contact with Mrs M at the same time  I dont think 
TSB have done anything wrong here.Was unhappy with how her concerns about the account were dealt with
Mrs M raised a number of concerns to TSB about the actions of their staff when she was 
trying to dispute the debt. 
TSB have accepted they could have done more to help her, so awarded her £50.
I think for this issue thats a fair way to resolve matters  as everyone will experience some 
inconvenience to a degree when raising a complaint.
Putting things right
Ive seen Mrs M has also asked for compensation for TSBs actions in not updating her 
address, recording a default, and having three debt collectors contact her.
Ive set out above my thoughts on those issues  of which Im only partially upholding the 
reporting of the default. Mrs Ms comments make it clear the distress she feels about the 
default is about the actual recording of it  rather than when it was recorded. Shes not 
raised any concerns or said shes been caused any distress because TSB didnt record the 
default earlier  and since Ive found TSB have acted fairly in recording the default, it follows 
I dont think TSB have done anything wrong leading to the distress Mrs M has explained to 
us.
Overall then, to put matters right I only require TSB to backdate the default, remove any 
interest or charges that otherwise wouldnt have been applied and write out to Mrs M to 
confirm the outstanding balance.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to backdate the default recorded 
against Mrs Ms credit card to 21 August 2020, remove any interest and charges applied 
after this date, and write out to Mrs M to confirm the outstanding balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman