DRN-3551526
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed and defaulted two loans.
What happened
Mr G had two loans with HSBC and successfully applied for payment holidays during the 
summer of 2020. HSBC wrote to Mr G before the end of the payment holidays. In August 
2020 Mr G applied for extensions to his existing payment holidays and an income and 
expenditure assessment was completed. But the assessment indicated Mr Gs outgoings 
exceeded his income. HSBC says that meant Mr G wasnt suitable for a payment holiday 
and needed more longer term support. 
HSBC accepts that in October 2020 it incorrectly told Mr G a payment holiday could be 
backdated. But that information was wrong and arrears continued to accrue on Mr Gs 
accounts. HSBC sent Mr G arrears letters and notice it intended to default his loan accounts. 
But Mr G had moved and post was returned undelivered. 
The loans were later closed and defaults reported on Mr Gs credit file. 
Mr G complained to HSBC but it didnt agree it had acted unfairly by closing the loans. 
HSBC agreed to refund a payment Mr G made at the end of the original payment holiday but 
didnt agree to remove the defaults from his credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They thought HSBC had waited 
too long to close and default Mr Gs loans and asked it to back date the defaults to 
September 2020 and refund interest and charges applied beyond that date. They also asked 
HSBC to pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way it 
communicated with him. 
HSBC agreed but Mr G asked to appeal and said his financial situation when applying for the 
second payment holiday was the same as when he applied for the first. Mr G also said he 
was aware he needed to make payments but was waiting for HSBC to respond. Mr G also 
said HSBC had failed to make it clear he needed to provide up to date direct debit 
instructions to make payments. Mr G also pointed out hed paid in £500 to his current 
account to make payments and advised hed asked HSBC to correspond by email. 
As Mr G asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this complaint. 
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to be 
able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome. 
Mr G has told us he thought the second payment holiday had been approved. But HSBC 
carried out an assessment of his circumstances and, based on the information Mr G 
provided, found his outgoings were greater than his income. That indicated to HSBC that Mr 
Gs financial difficulties were longer term in nature and needed a different kind of support. 
I appreciate Mr Gs circumstances mayve been largely the same as when he applied for the 
first payment holiday. But as Mr G was asking HSBC for continued support, Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for it to ask questions about his circumstances before offering further 
assistance. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent been persuaded HSBC acted unfairly 
when it declined his second payment holiday request. 
HSBC wasnt updated with Mr Gs new address when he moved. So he didnt receive 
arrears letters and the default notices. Mr G has told us he asked HSBC to correspond with 
him by email. But HSBC has to send certain correspondence, like the default notice and 
termination letters, by post. Thats why the loans terms and conditions required addresses to 
be kept up to date. So whilst I understand Mr G didnt receive all HSBCs letters, I havent 
found it acted unfairly. 
Mr G has pointed out he paid £500 into his account. But the payment was received after his 
loans had already closed by that point. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G but Im satisfied the 
information HSBC received showed he wasnt in a position to maintain the normal payments 
and repay the arrears. So Im satisfied it was reasonable to close the loan accounts and 
record defaults. 
HSBC has agreed to backdate the defaults to September 2020 which means the six year 
reporting period will end sooner. HSBC has also agreed to pay Mr G £100 to reflect 
confusing information provided by some of its call handlers and the inconvenience caused. 
Im satisfied that is a fair way to resolve Mr Gs complaint so Im going to proceed on that 
basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to backdate the 
loan defaults to September 2020 and pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman