DRN-2495300
The complaint
Mr A has complained that TSB Bank plc refused to refund transactions on his account, which
he says he didnt make, and that it registered a fraud (CIFAS) marker against his name.
What happened
On 4 November 2019, between 03.55 and 04.45, there were multiple faster payments, 
totalling £8,771.98, from Mr As current account to a third-party account. The payments 
were funded by internal transfers from Mr As savings accounts to his current account and 
faster payments into his account from the same third-party account.
Mr A said he was woken up at 05.00 by text alerts on his phone. When he checked his 
phone, he saw the transactions.
He called TSB and raised a fraud complaint. He said he didnt make any of the 
transactions and he didnt know the third party. He said he wasnt expecting any money 
from this or any other person. He told TSB that he was asleep at the time in a locked 
room. He said he owned two mobile phones  an android and an iPhone. He said he kept 
his iPhone in a wardrobe in his bedroom. Hed stopped using it in August 2019, when his 
employer gave him a work phone. He said he hadnt disclosed his passwords for his 
phones or his mobile banking log in details to anyone and he hadnt kept a written note of 
this information. He confirmed that he hadnt received any suspicious texts or emails and 
he hadnt had any issues with his phones. He said the transactions were out of character 
for him and that hed never made transactions at that time of day or night.
He asked TSB for a refund.
TSB investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity and concluded that Mr A had made the transactions himself 
because:
an iPhone, registered to his account, was used to make the internal transfers 
and payments from his account. He had used this device before.
The log in was done via the mobile banking app. His log in details would have 
been needed to make the transactions.
There was no evidence of how a third party gained access to his iPhone, as Mr 
A said it was stored in a wardrobe in the room he was sleeping in and that 
room was locked at the time.
Mr A said he hadnt shared his log in details or password for his iPhone with 
anyone else.
It wasnt likely a fraudster would transfer money to his account.
Subsequently, TSB closed his account and registered a CIFAS marker against 
Mr As name. Mr A didnt think this was fair and so he asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint and recommended a partial uphold. In summary, 
he felt unable to conclude that the disputed payments had been made fraudulently and was 
persuaded they were most likely made and authorised by Mr A. However, he didnt agree 
TSB had satisfied the test for registering the CIFAS marker and he asked TSB to remove it.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view that he had authorised the disputed payments. He
said he believes he should get his money back or some sort of compromise. He also asked
for the CIFAS marker to be removed. TSB disagreed with the investigators view on the 
CIFAS marker. It said it had taken advice from CIFAS and it was satisfied it had met the test 
for registering a marker. Both asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 2 December 2020. I decided it was more likely than not 
that Mr A had authorised the disputed transactions and that it was reasonable for TSB to 
hold him liable for them. I also decided that TSB had satisfied the test for registering the 
CIFAS marker.
TSB accepted this outcome. Mr A didnt. He maintained he didnt commit a fraud and that he 
wouldnt throw away his future for £8,000. He said it made no sense for money to be 
transferred back and forth between his account and a strangers account. He said he didnt 
gain financially from the disputed transactions and as he didnt commit a fraud, there 
shouldnt be a fraud marker against his name.
I now have enough information to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. These 
considerations are set out in my provisional decision and so I wont repeat them here.
Having reviewed the evidence, arguments and relevant regulations, Im afraid Ive reached 
the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Where appropriate, Ive referred to 
the points Mr A made following that decision.
The banks technical evidence shows Mr As iPhone was used to make the disputed 
payments together with his log in details for the mobile banking app. Im satisfied, therefore, 
that the disputed payments were authenticated. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable TSB to hold him liable. So, Ive considered whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A made the disputed payments 
himself.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Mr A made the
disputed payments himself. Not only was his iPhone used, but the evidence also shows that
biometrics were used to log in to the mobile banking app and to make the first payment.
Theres no evidence of any password resets, a sim swap or that Mr As phone had been
redirected  all of which might point to third party activity. And the transactions were made
from an IP address, which had been used in the past for genuine transactions, thus ruling
out remote access to his phone by a third party.Originally, Mr A told TSB that both his phones were secured using biometrics. When TSB
explained that meant only he could access his phones  and especially if his room was
locked at the time - he changed his evidence to say that he logs in using three characters
from memorable information. But even if this were true, Mr A hasnt provided a plausible 
explanation for how a third party gained access to his iPhone, which was in a locked room, 
or knew his log in details. He confirmed that he hadnt written down this information or 
shared it with anyone else. So, on his own admission, only he knew the log in details for his 
iPhone and only he had access to it. Also, as Ive already mentioned, TSB said biometrics  
either fingerprint or facial recognition  were used to log in to the mobile banking app which 
means only Mr A could do this.
Mr A didnt respond to this evidence in his reply to my provisional decision. And he hasnt 
provided any evidence showing any faults or tampering with his phones.
Ive also considered the fact there were credits into Mr As account totalling £8,584.01. The
credits came from the third-party account. The money was paid back to the third-party
account. Mr A said it makes no sense for him to do this. He asked why he would do this. I 
agreed this was very odd. But I think its equally unusual for an unknown third party to make 
payments into a victims account and send it back, as the risk of being caught is very high. 
Im afraid Im not persuaded, therefore, that an unknown third party paid these credits into Mr 
As account. 
In summary, Im afraid I dont find Mr As testimony to be persuasive or plausible. As well as
the change in his evidence about how he logs in to his iPhone, he said hed stopped using it
in August 2019 as his main phone, that hed wiped it and kept it stored in a wardrobe. He
said he used his iPhone occasionally if his other phone needed recharging. He told this
service he often forgot his mobile banking password and had to reset it. He also said that
hed never made transactions in the middle of the night.
However, his evidence is contradicted by the technical evidence. The banks online audit
report shows that he was logging in to his mobile banking app regularly throughout
September, October and November 2019 and he had made payments during this period.
He couldnt have wiped his iPhone, if he were using the mobile banking app.  And, there
was no evidence that hed reset his password.
Also, the banks transactions reports show that he had made transactions at this time of
night/day in the past, for example:
4 June 2019 at 12.46am
21June 2019 at 1.54am
27 July 2019 at 12.21am
15 August 2019 at 1.23am
1 September 2019 at 3.56am
25 September 2019 at 12.20am
24 October 2019 at 1.08 am
25 October 2019 at 12.30am
3 November 2019 at 12.20am
Again, Mr A didnt comment on any of this evidence in his reply to my provisional decision. 
Based on all the evidence, Im afraid I think its more likely than not that Mr A authorised the
disputed payments and I consider that its fair and reasonable for TSB to hold him liable for
them.
Ive considered his complaint that TSB should have been alerted to the activity on his
account. The banks dont share the details of its anti-fraud detection systems with thisservice, for obvious reasons. This is highly commercially sensitive information. Despite this,
Im afraid I dont consider there were any obvious signs of fraud which should have
prompted the bank to send a text message. This is because the disputed payments were
made with a trusted device, the IP address had been used for genuine transactions and it
wasnt unusual for Mr A to make transactions late at night or in the early hours.
CIFAS
I wont repeat the test for registering a CIFAS marker. Our investigator has already explained
it in his view. It doesnt always follow that a bank must register a CIFAS marker when it, or
this service has rejected a fraud complaint. Thats because the relevant regulations talk of
unauthorised transactions. There are occasions when a disputed transaction is treated as
authorised, but the claim isnt fraudulent.
However, I think it was clear from the technical evidence in this case that Mr A wasnt
completely truthful with this service or TSB. And as theres no credible alternative scenarios
for how the transactions were made e.g. that he shared his details with someone he knew, 
and they made the transactions, then Im afraid I have no option but to conclude that Mr A 
has made false representations with a view to making a financial gain. I note Mr A said he 
hasnt gained financially and that he is now out of pocket by £8,000. However, by making a 
claim against TSB he was hoping for a refund, which would be regarded as a financial gain.
In these circumstances I consider that TSB has met the test for a CIFAS marker and that it 
has acted fairly and reasonably.
I appreciate that a CIFAS marker can have an impact on a customers ability to access 
financial services. A CIFAS marker shouldnt automatically cause a bank or other financial 
service provider to decline an application for goods or services. The CIFAS principles state 
that financial service providers must interpret the information in a proportionate manner, in 
other words as appropriate and relevant having regard to its products and risk appetite. 
However, I accept Mr A wont find this reassuring. 
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for, but I trust the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman