DRN-2693388
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Royal & sun Alliance Insurance Plc has declined her home insurance 
claim for damage to her roof and about the poor customer service shes received. 
What happened
Mrs D made a claim to RSA on 20 March 2019. She told it that just before Christmas thered 
been a leak coming down the side of the chimney into the attic and then into one of the 
bedrooms. She said water was streaming in so she arranged for a roofing company to 
assess the damage. It said that it was potentially possible to repair the damage but it was 
worried that if the chimney stack was leaking into the roof that it mightve spread and caused 
further damage to the whole roof such that it would need replacing entirely.
RSA checked if Mrs D was covered for the damage shed reported and said it was unable to 
confirm if she was or not because it didnt know what had caused it. Mrs D said the damage 
was caused by faulty workmanship when a chimney repair was carried out in 2009. She said 
water had been getting in around the chimney stack since then and had been spreading 
underneath to the felt. 
RSA said to Mrs D that if the damage was caused by faulty workmanship then it was 
excluded from cover under her policy. Mrs D said that the faulty workmanship was the result 
of a repair carried out under a previous claim by an RSA approved contractor who she
trusted to carry out the works professionally. Mrs D then said to RSA that she was unsure if 
the cause of damage was faulty workmanship or whether water was recently starting to get
in but it definitely was getting in around the chimney stack. Mrs D said the last time she 
claimed it was because the chimney fell down but the current water ingress appeared to 
have happened in recent wet weather.
RSA said that the workmanship was now around 10 years old so it would be out of
warranty. But it said it could investigate it further. So, RSA said it would appoint one of its 
surveyors to visit the property and assess the cause of damage. RSAs surveyor visited 
Mrs Ds property about a week later. On inspecting the damage, it declined her claim in full. 
It reported:
The claim has been declined in full. External: When the surveyor inspected the main
roof he observed that the damage is predominantly to the rear and side elevation
although there is a little damage to the front too. There are various slipped tiles
throughout the roof and also some cracked and broken tiles. Some of the tiles have
started to spall. The tiles have started to lift in places. The felt is saturated around the
chimney area. There is evidence of frost damage and nail fatigue. There is no
evidence of any storm related damage, the damage is consistent with the natural
breakdown of materials over a period of time.
After RSAs surveyor told Mrs D that her claim was declined she next made contact about a 
year later in April 2020. Mrs D said she wanted a copy of the surveyors report and to 
register a complaint about the way RSA and its surveyor had treated her. Mrs D also 
complained about RSAs decision to decline her claim, its failure to provide her with a 
satisfactory level of customer service and she said she wanted the voice recordings from the 
surveyors visit. Mrs D also made a subject access request to RSA and disputed the date it 
had recorded for her previous claim for the chimney. 
RSA looked into Mrs Ds complaint and issued its final response letter in mid-June 2020. 
Just prior to it doing so, Mrs D also sent a letter to RSAs head of customer relations to 
complain that her complaint had not been dealt with. The head of customer service replied 
with a further final response letter at the start of July 2020. 
In response to Mrs Ds complaint, RSA said itd checked its records and they were clear 
Mrs D had made a claim for damage to her chimney in February 2008 and not June 2009 
(as shed claimed). It said its records showed that Mrs D had had the damage repaired 
before making the claim but that itd cash settled it having first spoken to the contractor 
Mrs D had engaged to carry out the repair. So, RSA said it was clear that the repair in 2008 
hadnt been carried out by one of its contractors so it was unable to accept any liability for 
any alleged poor workmanship Mrs D had discovered in December 2018. 
RSA said its decision to decline the claim made by Mrs D in 2019 for the damage discovered 
in December 2018 had been correctly made. It said it was clear from its surveyors report 
that the roof had failed over time and the reported damage wasnt caused by one of the 
insured perils listed in Mrs Ds policy. 
RSA also said to Mrs D that during its review of her complaint itd discovered a business 
registered to her address which Mrs D herself had since confirmed had been operating for 
about 20 years. RSA noted that when it was registering Mrs Ds 2019 claim itd asked her 
whether the property was registered for any trade, professional or business purposes and 
shed answered no. RSA said its underwriters had asked her to confirm the use of her 
property. 
RSA accepted that itd delayed providing its surveyors voice recordings. In relation to 
Mrs Ds subject access request it said it was entitled to ask that she provide identification 
documents so that it could check it was sending personal data to the correct recipient. It said 
when it hadnt received the requested ID documents it closed its file but noted its letter to 
Mrs D confirming this had crossed with hers sending it the required documents. For these 
failings RSA paid Mrs D compensation of £100 and apologised. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to RSA, Mrs D complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint but didnt think RSA had treated Mrs D unfairly or 
unreasonably so she didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Mrs D, I dont think her complaint should be 
upheld; Ill explain why. 
the claim
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by property insurance. Only the damage 
caused by one of the insured events  storm, theft, fire, flood etc.  listed in the policy is 
covered. Here I can see that Mrs D initially reported the damage was caused by faulty workmanship when a previous repair to the chimney was carried out in 2008. She then said 
it appeared to have been caused in recent wet weather. 
It is clear to me from the evidence Ive seen that Mrs D made a claim for damage to her 
chimney in February 2008 and that, by the time the claim was made, shed had the repair 
carried out by her own contractor. RSA spoke to Mrs Ds contractor at the time and, satisfied 
that the damage was the result of a storm, cash settled the claim. 
Where an insurer cash settles a claim, and so doesnt arrange for any repairs to be carried 
out, it isnt liable for the quality of the policyholders contractors repairs or if anything goes 
wrong with them. That means, if the damage to the chimney and roof in 2019 was a result of 
a faulty repair carried out by Mrs Ds contractor ten years previously, RSA is in no way 
obligated or liable for anything that went wrong. I dont think RSA, in these circumstances, 
unfairly declined to accept Mrs Ds claim for damage caused by her own contractors faulty 
workmanship. Such damage isnt covered by her policy. 
Mrs D said there was a storm on or around the time she discovered the damage. So, RSA 
considered her claim for damage to her roof against the storm peril in her policy. There was 
a named storm that hit the UK that weekend but not all regions were hit to the same extent.  
Ive checked the weather conditions for the locality of Mrs Ds home and can see the 
maximum recorded gust of wind was 30mph and the maximum hourly rainfall was 5.4mm. 
Whilst Mrs Ds policy doesnt define what it considers to be a storm, I cant say that these 
conditions can be said to amount to those that this service would typically consider to 
constitute a storm. Perhaps more importantly, whilst the weather conditions were poor, they 
were not severe enough to have caused the damage Mrs D is claiming for. 
I say this because the surveyor reported that there were various slipped, cracked and broken 
tiles across the roof and some that had started to lift. He also reported evidence of frost 
damage and nail fatigue. Such damage isnt consistent with that which is caused by a storm 
but rather with the gradual breakdown of materials over time. Indeed, I note that Mrs Ds 
contractor has recommended to her that the whole roof be replaced. Its likely that the bad 
weather conditions that weekend highlighted the existing issues the roof had. Thats classed 
as wear and tear which occurs gradually over time and isnt covered by Mrs Ds policy either. 
Mrs D says shes unhappy with the surveyors report and his investigation. Whilst 
I appreciate her strength of feeling about this I cant reasonably say that, having appointed a 
surveyor to look at the damage, RSA has then unfairly relied on its conclusions. The 
surveyor RSA used was well experienced in assessing claims for insured damage and, 
having looked at the photographs contained in its report, I dont think the conclusion it 
reached as to the cause of damage was an unfair one. 
Ive seen the letter Mrs D has provided from her own contractor that carried out the repairs 
but I dont think, taking all the circumstances into account, that I can reasonably ignore the 
evidence Ive referred to above and accept his statement that the damage seemed to have 
been caused by a storm. 
data protection subject access request (DSAR)
I note that Mrs D has registered a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office. 
Whilst Im not party to the exact precise nature of that complaint I note that Mrs D told our 
investigator she was unhappy that RSA asked her to provide additional identification before 
releasing the DSAR to her. But I can see that its RSAs stated policy, in order to ensure that 
it doesnt disclose personal data to someone whos not entitled to receive it, that when a 
DSAR is made it may ask for additional identification. So, I think when it did so following 
Mrs Ds DSAR, it did so in line with its stated policy which I cant say is unfair or 
unreasonable. RSA has accepted in its second final response letter that it closed Mrs Ds DSAR file 
prematurely and that it wrote to tell her so (its letter crossing in the post with hers sending it 
the information itd requested). RSA apologised for its error and took it into account when 
paying Mrs D compensation. I think thats fair in the circumstances.
surveyors voice recordings
RSA says it provided these to Mrs D as part of her DSAR. Mrs D says she didnt receive 
them. RSA accepts there was some confusion around who held the recordings which led to 
a delay in it retrieving them. RSA apologised for the delay in sending them to Mrs D and paid 
her compensation of £100 for failing to do so (and for the issue regarding the closing of its 
DSAR file and writing her a letter to say so which crossed with hers sending the required 
information). 
I think the amount of compensation RSA has paid Mrs D for these two shortcomings in its 
customer service is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is in line with awards this 
service has made in similar complaints. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk 
without an award of compensation having already been made, its unlikely Id have awarded 
any more than this. 
claim history
I can see that RSA recorded a previous claim made by Mrs D for chimney damage in 
February 2008. Ive seen a screenshot of its claims handling system (which I note that RSA 
also sent to Mrs D) which records the date the claim was made. I appreciate Mrs D has said 
that she made the claim in June 2009 but Im afraid, from the evidence Ive seen, it appears 
the claim was made, and cash settled, in February 2008. RSA has told Mrs D that if she can 
provide evidence of a claim registered in 2009 it will look into this further for her. Without any 
documentary evidence to support what Mrs D says, I cant reasonably uphold this aspect of 
her complaint. 
RSAs handling of the complaint
Mrs D is unhappy at the way that RSA handled her complaint. I can see she made a 
complaint on 23 April 2020. RSA had 8 weeks to issue its final response letter which it 
complied with by issuing it on 17 June 2020. Mrs D says she never received a copy of this. 
While I dont dispute that Mrs D didnt receive the letter, Im satisfied that RSA sent this to 
her. Once a letter is dispatched, the responsibility for successfully delivering of the letter falls 
into the hands of Royal Mail and any failure to deliver isnt the fault of RSA. 
During this time, Mrs D also sent a letter to RSAs head of customer relations on 13 June 
2020. This was responded to with a further final response letter dated 8 July 2020.
Ive set out the timetable of RSAs handling of Mrs Ds complaint only but Im not going to 
comment any further about the actual aspect of how the complaint was handled. Thats 
because complaints about complaint handling arent something this service is able to 
consider. 
business use
In RSAs final response letters, its asked Mrs D to respond to its underwriting
departments request for further information. During its investigation of her complaint, RSA 
discovered that it was being used for a business and had been for around 20 years. Mrs D told RSA that she has separate rooms in the property which are used in connection with her 
business, for which she has separate insurance.
Regardless of any separate insurance Mrs D has for her business, or which rooms are
being used, they still form part of the building (as defined in the policy) that RSA has agreed 
to insure. During the call to register the claim in March 2019, Mrs D was asked if the property 
was used for trade, professional or business purposes, and she answered no. So, I do think 
its fair to say that Mrs D has arguably provided RSA with some conflicting information.
RSAs underwriting department has no record of Mrs D informing it of any business use at 
her property throughout the time shes held her policy. And because of this theyve asked 
her to answer some additional questions. RSA relies on the information provided by
a customer when deciding whether it wishes to take on the risk of insuring them. Throughout 
the life of the policy its a customers responsibility to ensure that RSA is kept up to date with 
any changes to their circumstances  and the requirement to do so is drawn to their attention 
at each renewal. 
I dont think RSAs request for Mrs D to respond to its underwriters question is unfair in the 
circumstances. 
conclusion
It follows that this is a complaint Im unable to uphold. I dont think RSA has unfairly or 
unreasonably declined Mrs Ds claim for damage to her roof and its apologised for its 
customer service shortcomings paying her compensation of £100 for them which I think is 
fair in the circumstances. RSA has said that if Mrs D is able to provide any evidence of a 
claim registered in 2009, she can send this to them for further investigation. That seems fair 
to me as does RSAs request that Mrs D answer its questions about business use. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman