DRN-2223926
The complaint
Mr C complains about the phone calls he received from NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua 
(referred to as the business) enquiring about his exceeded credit limit and missed payment.  
Mr C says the unexpected calls caused him anxiety. He would like £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Hes also unhappy about the charges applied by the business despite him telling the 
business that payment is coming. 
What happened
Mr Cs account was opened on 3 January 2020, and on 20 August 2020 he asked for it to be 
closed. 
At the time he had a balance of £343.90  which was £43.90 above the agreed limit. The 
account is currently in arrears. 
A statement issued on 11 August 2020 requested payment of £39.90 comprised of his re-
payment as well the £21.05 by which he was over. Because the payment wasnt made by 26 
August 2020, a late payment fee was also charged to this amount. 
Previously Mr C had contacted the business on 4 June 2020 about his account being over 
the limit, he mentioned that he had been having problems with his bank account and that he 
also suffered from health issues  anxiety caused by unwanted calls  and would prefer text 
alerts.  
Although the business agreed to refund the over limit fees it failed to address any of Mr Cs 
other concerns. In due course Mr C complained to the business but it didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said it had dealt with him fairly. 
Mr C referred the complaint to our service. It was only after this the business upheld his 
complaint and offered a refund of the interest and fees charged as well as payment for 
distress and inconvenience caused. Overall it seems the business accepts that although it 
tried to help it couldve done more to assist. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business was correct to uphold the complaint. 
It shouldve referred Mr C to its Customer Care Team (CCT)  on 4 June 2020  to 
help take any necessary action. 
Its right to place a hold on Mr Cs account which will stop any further calls being 
made to his phone  instead he will be contacted by text message. It will also stop 
any charges or interest being applied to his account. 
Because the account is still in arears, the business has arranged for an income and 
expenditure form to be sent to Mr C. But if Mr C is still unable to bring the account up 
to date, it will consider a reduced payment arrangement, which is reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
If Mr C had been referred to the CCT  on 4 June 2020  and it had been made 
aware of his vulnerabilities, it wouldve stopped the calls and arranged a stop on his 
account then. So, on this basis, the business rightly agreed to refund any charges 
made after 4 June 2020, made up of the following:
o£32.33  for the interest charged between 5 July-11 August 2020, and 13 
September 2020. 
o£24  for the over limit fees between 11 August and 26 August 2020. 
o£12  late payment fee for 28 August 2020.   
oThe £150 compensation offered by way of an apology, and for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
oThe overall redress is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
If the business hadnt made an offer of compensation, she wouldve recommended 
the same. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following points:
The business didnt mention him wanting to close the account. 
Theres no mention of his other complaints against two separate businesses. 
The business couldnt give a timescale about his request for further information.
He may want to refer his complaint to the parliamentary ombudsman.
He lives on statutory benefits, not universal credit, so doesnt have a lot of funds. Its 
also not easy for him to fill out the income and expenditure form and hell probably 
need help from his father but doesnt live with him. Shielding during Covid19 has 
made matters more difficult. 
He hopes to settle his account by Christmas and doesnt want to have anything else 
with the business. 
Given his overall treatment hed like us to reconsider a higher payment for distress 
and inconvenience. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. I 
uphold this complaint  I note it was only upheld by the business after it was referred to our 
service. However, I think the redress offered by the business is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Despite what the business says I agree with the investigator that the business shouldve 
done more to assist Mr C  when he called on 4 June 2020  not only to discuss his 
concerns about his account and refer him to its CCT, but also put practical measures in 
place to deal with his concerns which it was made aware of by then. It was clear that Mr C 
was very unhappy about everything that had happened.
However, Im pleased to see that the business has now put Mr Cs account on hold, thus 
giving him an opportunity to clear any payments and bring his account up to date, before its 
closed  if thats indeed what he still wants to do. Ive seen nothing to suggest that he doesnt. The business not specifically mentioning this doesnt mean its done anything wrong 
or that Mr C is entitled to more compensation.   
I think the business has also rightly offered to refund any late payment fees, interest and 
over the limit fees, from 4 June 2020, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I understand that this is the date by which it shouldve put his account on 
hold. 
I also understand that the business has agreed to contact Mr C via text in future rather than 
by phone, taking into account the anxiety that he can experience from receiving 
unknown/unwanted calls. I understand that this is now very much in line with what Mr C 
wanted. 
Despite what Mr C says, I think the £150 compensation offered for distress and 
inconvenience  as part of the overall package of redress  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Im mindful Mr C has undertaken to settle his account by Christmas, but Im also mindful that 
were about to enter another lockdown. So, if for any reason, Mr C is unable to pay what is 
owed - Im conscious hes mentioned that filling out the income and expenditure form might 
be difficult without assistance  he should get back in touch with the business to work out an 
alternative arrangement. I understand that the business can consider a reduced payment 
agreement, so Im sure itll assist as far as its able to. 
Im aware that Mr C is unhappy about a data subject access request (DSAR) he made to the 
business. But this isnt something we can look at in this case because these arent regulated 
issues that our service has jurisdiction to investigate. In other words, its not for me to 
determine if the business has complied with the DSAR. These issues are better dealt with by 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
I appreciate Mr C may be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im 
unable to give him what he wants.
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua, should pay Mr C the following redress, if it hasnt done so 
already:
o£32.33  for the interest charged between 5 July to 11 August 2020, and 13 
September 2020. 
o£24  for the over limit fees between 11 August and 26 August 2020. 
o£12  late payment fee for 28 August 2020.   
o£150 compensation by way of an apology and the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should pay Mr C redress as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman