DRN-3695923
The complaint
Mr M complains that One Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a home emergency 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to One, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees and 
others insofar as I hold One responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr M had a home with a gas central heating boiler. 
For the year from mid-October 2021, he had a home insurance policy. He also had an 
additional home emergency policy under which One was the insurer responsible for dealing 
with any claim.
In January 2022, the boiler wasnt working properly so Mr M called One for help under the 
policy. On 15 January 2022, One sent an engineer.
On 18 January 2022, Mr M complained that One then said it wouldnt fix the boiler.
By a final response dated late January 2022, One upheld the complaint in part. It said that 
the policy didnt cover the repair. But One apologised for any false hope the engineer had 
given, and One said it had decided to compensate Mr M with £75.00 for that. 
Unhappy with that response, Mr M brought his complaint to us in late February 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that, in the engineers opinion, parts had failed due to wear and tear and needed a 
permanent fix, for which unfortunately theres simply no cover under the policy.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
All home emergency policies are taken out by people to ensure they have peace of 
mind to have heating and hot water if their boiler fails.
Ones engineer diagnosed thermostat failure. He submitted his report that the failure 
was due to "wear & tear". That was the reason One gave for refusing his claim.
A wear and tear clause, if applied in this way to a home/boiler emergency policy, 
makes the policy without any intrinsic value. For a boiler to fail, it can realistically only 
be because a part has failed and needs replacing. Any part, when it fails, can be said 
to be a failure from wear and tear if the boiler is more than a few weeks old. Regular 
preventative replacement of parts of a boiler is not an expected part of running a 
boiler. Accordingly, any failure will be excluded by Insurers. That is unfair, 
unreasonable and contrary to the very purpose of the cover.
A boiler fault is either fixed or not. There can be no temporary fix.
One Calls engineer shouldve identified the need to unblock the heat exchanger. 
One Call shouldve unblocked it under the policy. 
He has sent us the report from the heating engineer he had in to replace the boiler. 
This shows that the thermostats had not failed as Ones engineer mis-diagnosed.
The report shows that the cause of the problem was the blocked heat exchanger. A 
blockage is not something that could properly be viewed as a part failing through 
wear and tear.
His heating engineer couldve done a repair by unblocking that part. However, to do 
so would require stripping down the entire boiler to get to the heat exchanger and 
would then require it to be reinstated. The cost of doing so was likely to be between 
£500.00 to £700.00 including VAT.
Instead, he made a reasonable decision that, as the boiler was likely reaching 
towards the end of its working life, it was preferable to put the money towards a new 
boiler.
Insurers should issue him with the £750.00 limit under the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law, policy terms, regulation and good practice. 
From the policy schedule, I see that from mid-October 2021, Mr M had standard or basic  
home emergency cover as a benefit of his home insurance and free of any separate charge. 
From a revised policy schedule, I see that from 21 December 2021, Mr M had upgraded to 
executive home emergency cover at a charge of about £50.00.
The policy covered a number of issues including not only his heating system but also, for 
example, storm damage, wasps nests and broken locks.
The executive policy terms included the following:
A home emergency is considered an event that poses a threat to life or property and
ongoing damage is prevented as a temporary measure; this does not cover 
permanent fixes.
The policy terms also included the following:
What is Included?
We will pay a combined total of £750.00 (including VAT) for labour, advice, parts and 
materials to cover an emergency for insured events during the period of insurance.
 Boilers  emergency repairs after an emergency involving your home that leads to 
the main source of heating failing.
The policy terms had exclusions of the following:The cost of, or contribution towards, replacing the main source of heating if it is 
beyond economic repair.

Wear and tear  any claims for items or parts that need to be replaced because of 
natural wear and tear including, but not limited to: tap washersor the cost of 
updating essential services including re-wiring of internal electrics.
I dont consider that all failures of parts in used boilers are due to wear and tear. I dont find 
that the exclusion of wear and tear is unusual or unfair in this context. 
Ones engineer reported that the boiler was ten years old and a high limit stat was faulty due 
to wear and tear. He recommended that all three of the high limit stats should be replaced.
From what Mr M and One have each said, it led him to hope that it was going to fix his boiler. 
I consider that One gave Mr M false hope or, more to the point, One caused him extra 
disappointment when it declined to do a repair. Im satisfied that Ones compensation of 
£75.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for such disappointment.
Its final response mentioned both that the policy didnt cover permanent fixes and that it 
excluded wear and tear.
Mr Ms engineer said that there was no problem with the thermostats, but the heat 
exchanger was blocked. As his engineer gave Mr M the heat exchanger to keep as 
evidence, I prefer his diagnosis to Ones engineers diagnosis.
However, I dont think that helps Mr M. I say that because a heat exchanger is usually 
blocked with sludge or limescale that builds up over time  and I consider that to be natural  
wear and tear.
So I dont accept that One shouldve unblocked the heat exchanger under the policy. And I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One to pay the £750.00 policy limit (or any lesser 
sum) to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct One Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman