DRN-3263830
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc did not properly process a chargeback claim to a car 
hire company, G. Because of that, Mr P was charged for damage which he disputes.  
What happened
In August 2020 Mr P hired a car when he was in Spain. At the end of the hire period, he 
returned the car and, he says, was told that everything was in order and that his deposit of 
€750 would be returned. 
After Mr P returned to the UK, however, G contacted him to say that there was additional 
damage to the car and that it would charge him a further €750 to cover the cost of repairs, 
which it took from his Santander card. His deposit was returned but Mr P disputed that there 
was any damage or that G was entitled to charge him anything extra. 
Mr P raised the issue with Santander, and it submitted a chargeback request for the full 
amount, including the deposit. That was not successful. Mr P complained about the way 
Santander had handled the matter. It acknowledged that it had not kept Mr P updated on the 
process and offered him £50 by way of compensation. It said however that there was 
nothing more it could do about the main element of the complaint. It had submitted a claim 
but had not been successful. 
Mr P referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He agreed with Santander that it had acted appropriately and that its offer was 
reasonable. Mr P did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr Ps complaint here is about the actions of Santander, his underlying complaint is of 
course about the charge which G made and took from his card. He says that there was no 
damage and that the evidence in support of the charge does not show that there was. For 
example, he says that the pictures of the alleged damage do not link it to the car he hired 
and that there is insufficient evidence that even the alleged damage exceeded that allowed 
under the hire agreement. 
It is important to note that it is not my role to adjudicate on the dispute between Mr P and G. 
Indeed, I have no power to do so. I therefore make no comment on the question of whether 
or not there was any damage to the car. Similarly, it was not for Santander to decide that 
question either.
Chargeback is a process which can be used to challenge certain card payments, including 
for example where a payment has not been authorised. But it is not appropriate for resolving 
all disputes between merchants and cardholders. There is no obligation on a card issuer to 
make a chargeback request, but this service generally takes the view that it should do so 
where there is a reasonable prospect of success. And, if a card issuer does make a 
chargeback request, it should exercise proper care in doing so. 
In this case, Santander did make a chargeback request but was not successful. G produced 
evidence of damage which was sufficient to defend the claim for a refund. Mr P did not 
believe that evidence was persuasive  for reasons Ive indicated  and says that Santander 
should have sought better evidence. I can see why he thinks Gs evidence did not prove that 
he was responsible for any damage alleged or that he should pay for it. As I have said, 
however, it is not for me or Santander to decide the dispute between him and G. That is for 
the card scheme to decide in its operation of the chargeback system. 
Mr P says that Santander misunderstood his complaint and sought a refund of the full 
amount he had paid  including the deposit. He was only challenging the charge for damage. 
Again, I understand his argument here, and it may be that Santander could have sought only 
a partial refund  although it would be more usual to seek a full refund. I do not believe 
however that it would have made any difference in this case. It would have been open to G 
to defend only part of the chargeback claim, but it defended all of it, including the damage 
claim. If Santander had made a chargeback request only in respect of the payment for the 
damage, it seems likely that G would have defended it successfully, with the same outcome. 
For these reasons, I am satisfied that Santander acted appropriately in the overall way it 
handled the chargeback request. It should have told Mr P about the outcome sooner than it, 
but I think the offer of £50 in recognition of that is fair in the circumstances. I leave it to him 
to decide whether, on reflection, he wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman