DRN-2810231
The complaint
Ms S complains that Pockit Limited unfairly refused her account application.
What happened
Ms S says she applied for a Pockit account and sent it the required documents and paid a 
fee of £.99. She says the application was rejected but Pockit didnt provide any reasons and 
says she provided it with all of the documents. Ms S would like the account opened or her 
fee refunded. She also complains about how Pockit dealt with her and about how it handled 
her complaint. And also says it breached data protection laws. Ms S would like 
compensation for what took place.
Pockit says its entitled to reject an account application without providing reasons in line with 
the account terms and conditions. It says it hasnt made a mistake and says Ms S didnt 
provide it with the required documents in the required format.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions made clear Pockit was entitled to reject an 
application without reason. And that it wasnt obliged to refund the fee. The investigator 
didnt think we could look at the complaint about complaint handling and thought it for the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide if there was a breach of Ms Ss personal 
data.
Ms S doesnt accept that view and says we should be able to consider all of her complaint 
and says Pockits rejection reasons were wrong as she did provide the required documents 
in the correct format.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly she feels about 
this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Pockits terms and conditions for the account Ms S applied for, 
which I think she would have agreed to when she applied for the account. I can see that 
those terms and conditions make clear that Pockit is entitled to reject without reason any 
application. I can see that Pockit has explained why it rejected Ms Ss application and that 
Ms S disagrees with those reasons. Im satisfied that Pockit is not obliged to provide any 
reasons, for what I think is an exercise of its commercial judgement, when rejecting an 
account application. So, I dont think it matters what the rejection reasons were or if Ms S 
disagrees with them as Im satisfied the key issue is that Pockit is entitled to reject an 
account application. And so, I dont think it acted unfairly here or made a mistake.
I appreciate Ms S says that she provided the correct documentation, but I have made clear I 
dont think that matters or is relevant. I also made clear that complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. So, I cant fairly comment on how Pockit dealt with Ms Ss complaint, as 
we can only deal with complaints about a regulated activity. 
I also appreciate that Ms S says that Pockit has breached data protection laws and rules. I 
agree with the investigator that it would be for the ICO to decide upon such matters and not 
us.
I have looked at Pockits terms and conditions and can see that it charges an application fee, 
in this case £.99. The terms and conditions do not say that fee will be refunded in the event 
of an unsuccessful application and so I dont think Pockit has acted unfairly by refusing to 
refund that money.
Overall, Im satisfied that Pockit has acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions 
and hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also think this brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman