DRN-4198671
The complaint
B, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to resolve a technical 
issue which means that payees keep disappearing from Bs online banking.
B is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr K. 
What happened
Mr K has complained more than once to Barclays that saved payees have disappeared from 
Bs online banking.
Barclays told Mr K that there was a known issue which meant that saved payees dropped off 
after about 13 months. Mr K pointed out that some of Bs payees have dropped off online 
banking after only two months.
Before B came to this service, Barclays apologised and discussed the possibility of 
compensation. Barclays says Mr K wasnt interested in compensation unless it was more 
than £200,000 and that he just wanted Barclays to fix the problem. 
The investigator thought Bs complaint should be upheld. She noted Mr Ks concerns that 
Barclays systems may be corrupt and subject to possible data breaches. The investigator 
told Mr K that she could explain how to escalate these concerns. 
The investigator said that Bs terms and conditions say that customers should plan to guard 
against system failures. She also explained that this service doesnt have the power to make 
a business change its systems and we cant punish it for taking too long to investigate.
The investigator recommended that Barclays pay B £300 for the inconvenience suffered. 
Barclays agreed to this recommendation but B doesnt accept. 
Mr K thinks that if a large business was having similar problems with Barclays banking 
system, everything would have been resolved more quickly. Hed like to know how much 
time Barclays has dedicated to sorting this out. Mr K says hes not bringing the complaint for 
financial gain but to stand up for others. He asks what would happen if another time a glitch 
like this wiped out Bs and many other customers accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration with the situation but as the investigator explained, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the businesses we 
cover. It would be for the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  to make decisions 
about the way in which businesses work. So, we cant get all the answers that Mr K would 
like.
Barclays says that its aware of the problem with its online banking service and is trying to fix 
it. Although Mr K would like to have more information about the steps Barclays has been 
taking, I dont require Barclays to provide this as part of resolving Bs complaint. 
I understand that Mr Ks focus is to get answers rather than compensation but I can also see 
that B has been impacted by the problem. I consider the investigators suggestion of £300 
compensation is fair. It reflects the inconvenience to B when Mr K, as director, had to go 
back through records and reinstate payees, as well as speaking to Barclays about the 
problem.
I understand Mr Ks concerns about the same or an even worse problem happening in the 
future but I cant require Barclays to compensate B for something that hasnt yet happened. I 
also remind Mr K of Barclays advice to retain details of all payees in case they drop off 
online banking again. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays should pay B £300.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay B £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman