DRN-3702526
The complaint
Ms M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2017, Ms M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Ms M decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In August 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Ms Ms behalf under the Act. The 
CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Ms M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which she could sell to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Ms M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Ms M the whole of the quote on which the adjudicator 
had relied, only the parts which said she would make a profit;
the quote is difficult to read on a laptop screen, and the text is to small, especially the 
figures which show that the system will not be profitable, which are illegible;
there is a lot of technical information, which would be confusing for the average 
consumer;
Ms M had never had the opportunity to read all of it;
a copy of the quote had never been sent to her to read in her own time;
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Ms M had not 
thought it necessary to ask for a copy of the quote afterwards;
the salesman has also told Ms M in a phone call that the system would be self-
funding;
it was not logical to suppose that Ms M would have bought the system if she had 
known that it would take over ten years to recover its cost.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Ms M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms M could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms M says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Ms Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Ms M, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract.
I dont think its likely or plausible that Ms M simply took the salesmans word for it when she 
was told that she could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an 
interest-bearing loan  without it costing her a penny, without at any point asking to see 
something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Ms M has simply forgotten seeing the 
quote over the four years between the sale and the bringing of her claim. So on the balance 
of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process 
when Ms M agreed to enter into the contract.
I have viewed the quote on a laptop computer, and I do not agree that it is too difficult to 
read. Many of the figures I am going to refer to below are in a large font, but even the figures 
which are in a small font are still legible. For reasons I will set out later, I also do not agree 
that this information is too technical to understand (perhaps some other sections are, but 
I have not relied on those, and those pages come after the pages with the key information on 
them).
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Ms Ms 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
To be clear, if the salesman did indeed mislead Ms M about the system, then it would not be 
a defence for either P or Shawbrook to say that Ms M could have discovered any 
misrepresentations simply by reading the quote in her own time to find out the true position. 
Rather, the relevance of the quote is that I do not think it is likely, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the salesman made oral representations (in the meeting or the phone call) 
which he knew were clearly contradicted by the quote at a meeting in which the quote played 
a central part.
FIT payments and savings
Ms M has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Ms Ms recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The Key Facts page of the quote (page 2) states in large font that it would take 10 years for 
the overall benefits that Ms M could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in very large print 
on page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.1 However, I have still 
gone on to look at other pages too.
The system analysis page of the quote (page 8) sets out the estimated income Ms M could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
1 The small print on the bottom says that this refers to the cash price, not the cost of the loan.
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £90.45.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £181.98.
When taking into account the optional extras chosen by Ms M, the combined income and 
savings in year one are shown as £661.23. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together on page 9.
This results in an average monthly income of £55.10. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £88.38. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that Ms M was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT payments and savings.
The Putting it all together section also repeats the ten-year estimated payback time which 
appeared on page 2.
Theres another section on page 11 headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Ms M entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £88.38. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £87.75, but the difference  63p  is too small 
to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £88.38, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first eight years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin 
to make enough money to cover the loan payments until year nine.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Ms Ms version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the 
sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Ms M that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 63p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the 
table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Ms M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time. As Ive said already, page 2 of the quote says it would take ten years 
for the overall benefits that Ms M could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 25 
years. This too shows that during year ten the overall benefits that Ms M could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,370. It also shows that the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement, £15,894, would be reached by the end of year 15, or 
within the term of the loan.2
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to 
enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Ms M.
Performance
The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 1,392 kWh a year. I have looked 
at Ms Ms FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has generated 1,457 
kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale (104.7%), so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if not 
financially. So the reason Ms M has not seen the expected financial returns is not because 
the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
2 I agree that these figures are quite small  although they are still legible  but as these figures 
support Ms Ms case that she was told that the system would pay for itself within the loan term, I dont 
think she was disadvantaged by the small font that was used here.P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Ms M hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms M could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the financial returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms M entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman