DRN-4039137
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Erudio Student Loans Limited dealt with her account.
What happened
Miss H says Erudio failed to update her address then obtained a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) against which she was unaware of. She also complains about how her account was 
then handled and about the impact the CCJ caused her. Miss H says she was forced to pay 
a 12-month tenancy in advance and says the mistake affected her health at a time when she 
was expecting her child.
Erudio accepts that it didnt update Miss Hs address and has apologised for what then took 
place. It says it has taken steps to remove the CCJ and has paid £200 compensation and 
offered £250 compensation for the original mistake.
Miss H brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Miss H had provided evidence of the tenancy payment requirement and that she paid for a 
credit report for about a year to monitor the mistake. The investigator recommended a total 
of £650 compensation and that Erudio pay £164.89 for the credit report subscription.
Miss H accepts that view.
Erudio says it will pay for the subscription but says the £450 compensation paid is 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and agree with 
the investigators recommendations.
There is no need for me to repeat in detail what took place here as Erudio accepts it didnt 
deal appropriately with Miss Hs account. It may well be that this debt is still owed, and no 
doubt Miss H will make contact with Erudio about it.
The only issue for me to consider is the compensation level.
I have no doubt that having a CCJ has a significant impact and will cause a significant 
impact on an ability to obtain credit. And as in this case, on obtaining a tenancy. I have seen 
confirmation from an estate agent that Miss H was required to take what I think was the 
unusual step of having to pay a full years rental payments in advance. I have no doubt that 
caused financial difficulties for Miss H and will have caused significant distress as well as 
inconvenience. I also think that problems continued for some time, and this was not an 
isolated incident.
So, Im satisfied that Erudios mistake had a significant impact on Miss H and think that it 
should pay a total of £650 compensation which I think fairly reflects the impact caused. And 
the length of time matters took to resolve. I also think it fairly reflects the impact on Miss Hs 
ability to obtain any credit at the time due to the CCJ and that this award is in line with the 
type of awards we make for this sort of issue.
There is no issue over the credit file subscription and Erudio has fairly agreed to pay the 
£164.89. I dont consider it appropriate that interest be paid on that amount as initially 
suggested by the investigator and can see Miss H doesnt comment on that.
Putting things right
Erudio should pay a total of £650 compensation and for the subscription cost. It is not clear if 
Miss H cashed the original compensation cheque for £250 or if the further £200 
compensation has been paid. I make clear the total compensation is £650 and no doubt 
Erudio can check its records to find out if either payment has been made or the cheque 
cashed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Erudio Student Loans Limited pay 
Miss H a total of £650 compensation less any payments already made and pay £164.89 for 
the subscription cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman