DRN-2856219
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs H took five instalment loans from Lending Stream between July 2019 and October 2019.  
A summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending Stream, 
can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid No of Instalments Amount Borrowed
1 12/07/2019 22/08/2019 6 £400
2 01/08/2019 22/08/2019 6 £270
3 21/09/2019 outstanding 6 £560
4 21/10/2019 22/10/2019 6 £120
5 30/10/2019 outstanding 6 £170
It appears that Mrs H ran into some difficulties repaying loans 3 and 5 as an outstanding 
balance remains on these loans.
In our latest assessment one of our adjudicators didnt think Lending Stream were wrong to 
approve Mrs Hs first three loans based on the information Lending Stream gathered about 
her circumstances. 
But the adjudicator thought Lending Streams checks should have gone further from loan 4 
onwards. Had Lending Stream verified the information Mrs H provided, as the adjudicator 
thought was proportionate, it wouldve likely discovered that she couldnt afford to take on 
any further borrowing. So, the adjudicator thought loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been 
granted. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion and offered to settle in-line with the 
adjudicators recommendations. Lending Stream confirmed that even after the settlement, an 
outstanding balance would remain to be paid, because loans 3 and 5 remain outstanding.
Mrs H disagreed and provided the following complaint points;
Loan 3 wasn't affordable as it was the largest of the loans and was clearly 
part of a pattern of borrowing.
Mrs H would like Lending Stream to remove the default from her credit file for 
loan 3.
We put Mrs Hs request to Lending Stream (about the removal of the default for loan 3) but it 
declined to accept it to settle the case. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs H could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mrs H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. 
Lending Stream has already agreed to settle loans 4 and 5 in-line with our adjudicators 
opinion.  Im satisfied Lending Stream settlement for these loans is in-line with our services 
recommendations where we conclude a loan should not have been given. So, I think loans 4 
and 5 are no longer in dispute, but I have outlined what Lending Stream has agreed to do to 
put things right. 
Following our adjudicators investigation into these loans, Mrs H didnt provide any further 
information or comments about loans 1 and 2. So, it appears that both Mrs H and Lending 
Stream have accepted our adjudicators findings about these two loans. It seems that 
Mrs Hs comments are about the checks Lending Stream completed for loan 3 and Mrs H 
would like Lending Stream to remove any adverse information recorded about loan 3 from 
her credit file.
Loan 3When Mrs H applied her third loan, she requested her largest loan to date of £560. Lending 
Stream completed the same checks as it did for Mrs Hs first two loans by asking her to 
declare her monthly income and expenditure, and by completing a credit check.
At the time of the loan application, Mrs H declared that she was employed full time and 
receiving a monthly income of £1,546. The information she provided about her monthly 
expenditure amounted to £600.
Lending Stream completed some additional checks into Mrs Hs declared income and 
expenditure with independent sources and a Credit Reference Agency. And it adjusted her 
declared expenditure amount accordingly. This led to Lending Stream recording Mrs Hs 
income as £1,405.45 and her monthly expenditure as £661.
Ive considered the information that Mrs H provided as well as the adjustments made by 
Lending Stream. As the highest repayment for loan 3 was £199.07, I think the repayments 
appeared affordable either way.
When Lending Stream completed a credit check, it checked Mrs Hs active accounts and 
whether she had any defaults. The credit check results for loan 3 show Mrs H had 15 active 
accounts and no defaults. But, the credit check results didnt show what these individual 
accounts were e.g. payday loans, credit cards or store cards etc. 
So, based on the credit checks and the information Mrs H declared about her circumstances, 
I dont think Lending Stream wouldve been aware about the details of Mrs Hs other 
creditors at this point. The number of active accounts in itself wouldnt necessarily have been 
problematic, as people can have a range of open accounts covering all sorts of types of 
borrowing, many of which wouldnt flag concerns about financial management. And I havent 
seen any other concerning information which suggested Mrs H could not meet the 
repayments she was committing to make. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs H was struggling financially and repaying this loan has proved
difficult. And I accept that her full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
either the information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained from 
its credit checks. And it might be that Mrs Hs full financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained. 
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on the 
information Lending Stream knew about Mrs H, that meant it needed to verify the information 
Mrs H was telling it at the time of her third loan application  so I dont think that Lending 
Stream wouldve been in a position to know that Mrs H was having financial difficulties at the 
time.
As I dont think Lending Stream made an error by approving loan 3, it also follows that 
Lending Stream doesnt need to remove any adverse credit file data it has reported about 
this loan on her credit file. 
I do think Lending Streams checks shouldve gone further for subsequent lending going 
forwards. But Lending Stream has already agreed that something went wrong when it 
approved loans 4 and 5. So that is no longer in dispute but for completeness Ive outlined 
below what Lending Stream has agreed to do to put things right. 
So, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about loan 3. I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for her.  But I do hope that shell understanding why Ive reached the findings that I have.
  Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not provided Mrs Hs last two loans, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mrs H may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
A. Lending stream should refund all interest, fees and charges on loan 4
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H from the
date Mrs H originally made her payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Lending Stream should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the 
outstanding loan balance on loan 5. Lending Stream should rework the account so 
that Mrs H only has to repay the principal borrowed for loan 5. It should treat any 
repayments made by Mrs H (and any third party if applicable) as if it went towards 
the principal balance.
If and when Mrs H has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*; 
You should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs H.
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, Lending 
Stream should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mrs H to repay the 
balance. But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat her fairly.
E. Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 4 
and 5 from Mrs Hs credit file.
  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint in part, and Lending 
Stream should put things right as it has agreed to do for loans 4 and 5. But Lending Stream 
doesnt need to take any further action in relation to loan 3. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mrs H for loans 4 and 5 as it has already agreed 
to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman