DRN-3050939
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans provided him 
with a loan when he couldnt afford it. 
Hes also unhappy with how Everyday Loans dealt with things after hed let it know he was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr W was granted a loan with Everyday Loans in August 2018. The capital amount 
borrowed was £5,000 over 60 months, the APR 58.4%, total amount repayable £13,040 and 
the monthly repayment amount £217.34.
In November 2018, Mr W approached Citizens Advice for help with financial difficulties he 
was experiencing and it assisted him with regards to debt management. There followed a 
period of time where Citizens Advice engaged Everyday Loans (and other lenders) on Mr 
Ws behalf about the repayment of what he owed. There was also some direct contact 
between Everyday Loans and Mr W. 
In December 2019 Mr W complained about Everyday Loans decision to grant him the loan. 
Everyday Loans upheld the complaint on the grounds that the loan shouldnt have been 
approved  given evidence of gambling transactions and Mr Ws overall credit profile. 
It offered to only require Mr W to repay the capital amount borrowed, to agree an affordable 
repayment plan for the remaining balance (capital borrowed less total repayments Mr W had 
made) and to remove details of the loan from his credit file. 
Mr W didnt think Everyday Loans offer went far enough and he referred the complaint to 
this Service. He said that Everyday Loans hadnt treated him fairly after he had let it know 
about his financial difficulties, because it hadnt been prepared to remove or freeze any 
interest or charges. Also, that he had received excessive contact from them in relation to 
repayment of the debt. 
Mr W also said that when it granted him the loan, Everyday Loans had been aware of his 
difficulties with alcohol and gambling  and that it disregarded this information in order to 
grant him the loan.
He said that the money borrowed was quickly spent and lost on gambling and that this had 
left him feeling suicidal. 
He said that because of this, he thought Everyday Loans should waive the whole amount i.e. 
including the capital he had borrowed.
An investigator here looked into things and gave her view on the matter. She said, in 
summary, that she thought Everyday Loans offer to settle the complaint was fair. 
Mr W still thought that Everyday Loans should do more, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
I requested further information from Everyday Loans, including its records from when the 
loan was taken out and customer contact history. I asked for its comments on what Mr W 
had said about information having been intentionally disregarded in order for the loan to be 
granted. 
Everyday Loans provided the requested information. In terms of what Mr W had said about 
information having been intentionally disregarded, it said that it couldnt comment on this.
I shared some provisional thoughts on the case with both parties, as follows:
Generally speaking, a write-off of capital may be appropriate in the following scenario:
- At the point it agreed to the loan, the lender was aware that the prospective borrower
would struggle to make the loan repayments and was in a vulnerable position.
- The borrower is now experiencing severe financial difficulty, the unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending has been a significant contributing factor to this and there is little or no prospect of 
the borrower being able to repay the capital.
From what Ive seen on file, Mr W already had reasonably significant debts at the point he 
applied for the ELL loan. And he has been able, with some assistance, to get back towards 
something of an even keel with his finances. Bearing this in mind, I dont think a write-off of 
capital would be appropriate here.
However, I am minded to say that ELL should pay Mr W an amount for distress and
inconvenience. Ill explain why.
I note that Mr W is concerned by ELLs actions after he notified it, through Citizens Advice, of 
his financial difficulties. This relates to both the initial stance it took regarding repayment of 
the loan amount and also the extent of its contact seeking repayment of the debt. Ive 
thought about what he has said, in conjunction with ELLs contact records. And, overall, I 
dont agree that ELLs contact with Mr W after he began experiencing difficulties, was 
excessive or unfair. I note that much of the contact was between ELL and Citizens Advice.
I do though think that ELL couldve come to the conclusion sooner than it did, that the 
lending had been unaffordable. And I think this caused Mr W some unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr W has also said that when he applied for the loan, ELLs representative told him to omit 
certain information in terms of bank statements (parts showing significant gambling
expenditure), in order for the loan to be agreed by ELLs underwriters. ELL has said it cannot
comment on what was discussed at the time. Mr W has provided us with a copy of his bank 
statements for both of the current accounts he held at the time, including his Santander 
account.
These show significant gambling transactions on 21 and 25 August 2018 (£1,800 in total, 
versus £400 showing from earlier that month). The statement information that ELL provided 
as part of its file includes a Lloyds statements with a print date of 31 August 2018 (the 
same day as the loan agreement) and transactions going up to 29 August. Whereas, the 
Santander information is a Mini-statement only showing transactions up to and including 
20 August 2018. Based on this, I find Mr Ws recollection of event to be plausible - it does 
suggest that ELLs representative knew the lending was irresponsible.Mr Ws statements show that by 15 September, he had spent around £5,400 on gambling 
transactions  more than the capital he borrowed from ELL.
ELL wasnt responsible for Mr Ws financial position when he asked to borrow money, or 
the problems he was having with gambling and other things. However, given his 
circumstances, I think ELLs decision to lend to him did result in him experiencing quite 
significant distress and inconvenience. Mr W has said he felt suicidal in the aftermath of 
taking the loan and I have no reason to disbelieve what he has said.
Taking everything into account, I think that in addition to the remedy ELL has already 
proposed, it should also pay Mr W £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its actions.
Mr W said he was happy to accept my provisional findings. 
However, Everyday loans disagreed. It said, in summary:
- It had lent based on the information Mr W provided at the time of his application, 
which included the Santander mini-statement. To suggest that its representative 
knew the lending was irresponsible with circumstantial evidence at best, is 
unquestionably wrong.
- In relation to my comment that it couldve come to the conclusion sooner than it did 
that Mr W shouldnt have been provided with the loan, it asked whether this meant 
that all cases brought to this Service should have distress and inconvenience 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my provisional thoughts remain unchanged. 
Everyday Loans has already said that it shouldnt have provided Mr W with the loan. So Ive 
only needed to think about whether its offer to put things right goes far enough. And I still 
dont think it does.
Mr W has been clear and consistent in his recall about what happened when he applied for 
the loan, in terms of the Everyday Loans representative being aware of his gambling 
problem and being selective in what bank account information was used in the application 
process  so that significant gambling transactions werent showing. 
I still find that the bank statement information provided by Everyday Loans in response to our 
request for information, supports Mr Ws version of events. 
Everyday Loans initially said it couldnt comment on what Mr W had said, but in response to 
my provisional findings on the matter, it says that my finding was based on circumstantial 
evidence at best and was unquestionably wrong. 
I disagree. Mr Ws testimony on this point has been clear and consistent and the bank 
statement information provided by Everyday Loans fits with what Mr W has said. As such, I 
find what Mr W has said about this to be plausible and persuasive. 
But in any case, I think that Everyday Loans decision to lend to Mr W when it now accepts that it shouldnt (because of, according to what Everyday Loans itself said gambling 
transactions and Mr Ws overall credit profile) caused him quite a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience  given his particular circumstances. 
He was clearly going through a very difficult period in his life. His bank statements show that 
the money lent was quickly spent on gambling transactions and he says that he was left 
feeling suicidal. 
Everyday Loans wasnt responsible for the situation Mr W was in or his wider financial 
difficulties. But even with this being the case, I still find that its decision to lend Mr W the 
money did cause him quite a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. And I still 
think that a payment of £500 in addition to the standard remedy for unaffordable lending, 
would be appropriate. 
Finally, regarding Everyday Loans' question about distress and inconvenience awards in all 
cases brought to this Service. The distress and inconvenience award in this case relates 
solely to the impact of Everyday Loans unaffordable lending decision. And since this final 
decision relates specifically to this case only, theres no need for me to answer Everyday 
Loans general question, within this decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans must:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr W has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr W. But, if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question 
should be given back to Mr W and 8% simple interest should be added to the 
surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
5. Pay Mr W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Everyday Lending Limited  trading 
as Everyday Loans and I direct it to do what Ive said above under putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman