DRN-3834632
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as F, complains about the decision of The New India 
Assurance Company Limited to decline its business interruption insurance claim, made as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
F operates as a care home and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy, 
underwritten by New India. F contacted New India to claim for loss of income starting in 
November 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. New India declined the claim, 
saying that the policy required F to have been, at least partially, closed by order of a public 
authority  but that this had not happened in the circumstances of Fs claim.
F complained, saying that following an outbreak of COVID-19 at its premises, amongst other 
issues, it had stopped admitting new residents  effectively closing this part of its business. 
When New India did not alter its decision, F brought its complaint to the Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator thought New India had made an inappropriate decision, so she did 
not recommend Fs complaint be upheld. The Investigator considered that F had said, 
following at least one occurrence of COVID-19 at its premises, it had been instructed by 
Public Health England (PHE) not to accept new residents. 
New India did not agree with this outcome though and Fs complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
Having reviewed the evidence available, I contacted F. I explained that I did not think the two 
key pieces of evidence provided  an email from PHE dated 7 November 2020 and a letter 
from Fs local council in April 2021  would be enough to say that F had been ordered to 
close by a competent public authority. So, I explained that I was not minded to uphold the 
complaint based on what I had. I asked F to provide me with any further evidence to show 
that it had actually been told to close (either wholly or in part). F was not able to provide 
anything further though. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the 
COVID-19 pandemic have had on F, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
I have considered all of the submissions and arguments made, but have focussed this 
decision on what I consider to be the key issue. Similarly, I have considered the whole of Fs 
policy, but have focussed this decision on whether the following clause provides cover in the 
circumstances. 
Cover is provided in the business interruption section of Fs policy for loss of revenue as a 
result of:
The closure of the whole or part of the Premises by order of a competent public 
authority as a direct result of
(i) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
(ii) any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of 
a Notifiable Disease
(iii) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease within a radius of 25 miles of the 
Premises
COVID-19 would be considered a Notifiable Disease in relation to the above. So effectively 
this clause provides cover where there has been an occurrence of COVID-19 either at or 
within an area around the premises. It doesnt appear to be disputed that there were most 
likely such occurrences. 
However, New India made a number of arguments around what would else be required for 
the clause to be applicable. I have considered these and am not persuaded by a number of 
them. However, one of the key issues is whether F has been able to demonstrate that its 
business was impacted by order of a competent public authority. 
Whilst many businesses in England were closed by the restrictions introduced by the 
Government in March 2020, care homes were not. They were allowed to continue to provide 
care to existing residents and also to admit new residents  including those being 
discharged from hospital who were in some cases still testing positive for COVID-19. 
The Government did issue guidance on the admission of new residents, including the 
Admission and care of residents in a care home during COVID-19, originally published in 
April 2020. But it is clear from this publication that care homes were able to continue to admit 
new residents.
I do note that F suffered an outbreak of COVID-19 at its premises. The guidance above 
included a section referring to the actions to be taken in such circumstances. As well as 
measures around isolation and the use of personal protective equipment, the guidance said:
The HPT may advise that restrictions may need to be implemented for 28 days. 
For example, they may advise closure of home to further admissions, recognising 
this is usually the care home managers decision in discussion with their 
commissioners (and alerting the CCG and local authority).
This does make it clear that in some situations the HPT (Health Protection Team  part of 
Public Health England), may advise closure of the care home to further admissions. 
However, F has said that although Public Health England were consulted, no visit was made 
to its premises. And so, it does not seem that F was actually advised to close or stop 
admitting further residents.
An email was sent to F from PHE in November 2020. However, I do not think this contained 
an order for F to stop taking new admissions. The email included a section titled 'resources 
attached' and Point 6 of this indicated F should make an assessment of the risks and then 
discuss the decision from this with other parties. I don't think that would be considered an 
order (or even advice) to close from the PHE. And this email does not contain such advice such as that referred to in the guidance above for F to stop such admissions.
I also note the letter from the local council in April 2021. But this suggests that it was the 
decision of F that led to the closure. Whilst the council may have supported these actions, it 
does not appear that the council was the party that directed F to stop admitting new 
residents.
It seems that F made the assessment of whether it ought to close/stop further admissions 
itself. Whilst the reasons for such a decision are understandable, the question I need to 
determine is whether this was an insured event. In the absence of any order from a 
competent public authority, I am unable to fairly conclude that the requirements of the policy 
have been met.
I am sympathetic to the situation F found itself in. And I understand that the decision it took 
was made for the protection of its staff and residents. However, as this was a decision taken 
without an order from a public authority, I am satisfied New Indias decline of the claim was 
in line with Fs policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means New India should have met Fs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Fs directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of 
why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman