DRN-2910162
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, (BOS), mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 1994, at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. The sale took place during a meeting. 
The initial premiums for this insurance were about £27 a month. And, following a successful 
claim for involuntary unemployment, it would have paid out £400 a month, for up to 12 
months. And it would have paid out these amounts for up to 24 months in the case where 
she was unable to work because of accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs S complaint should be upheld. As Mrs S 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
(At the outset I would mention that the Mrs S seems to have misunderstood that the Group 
Mortgage Protection mentioned in BOS paperwork was MPPI. In fact it was a different type 
of insurance. This apparent mis-understanding has not affected my decision.)
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but Ive decided policy was not 
mis-sold. I explain why below:
I think that Mrs S knew that the MPPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because Ive seen her signed mortgage application. There is a section in it dealing 
with MPPI which says that BOS recommends that the applicant considers taking it out  
the italics are mine. And I can see that there is a handwritten Y in the box requesting 
MPPI. I realise that this form may have been completed by BOS representative. But I 
think it is reasonable to assume that Mrs S would have had the opportunity to read the 
form through before signing it. And, had she not wanted the policy, she could have 
queried why it was filled in that way.
 
Mrs S also signed a separate application for the insurance, which Ive also seen. I think 
his would have made it clear to Mrs S that the policy was a separate product from the 
mortgage. And there was nothing in either this or the mortgage application which I find 
suggests that the MPPI had to be taken out;
Mrs S says that BOS applied pressure and was aggressive when selling the MPPI to her. 
She says it was a sale based on fear and that she was told that she might not get the 
mortgage if she didnt take it. I have no reason to doubt that that is how Mrs S now 
recollects the meeting. But she is recalling a conversation and actions that took place 
over 25 years ago. I dont think that, in the circumstances of this complaint, I can 
reasonably rely just on her memory. And, in the absence of more detail of what was said 
and how BOS representative behaved, I dont find I have enough evidence fairly to 
conclude that BOS subjected Mrs S to undue pressure to take the insurance
BOS advised Mrs S to take the MPPI. This means that it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it was suitable for her. I find that the policy was suitable for Mrs S. I say this 
because, knowing what I do about her circumstances at the time and the terms and 
conditions of the policy:
Mrs S was eligible for the policy;
Mrs S told us that she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions at the time she 
took out the insurance. However, I have seen her MPPI application form. This 
mentions that she had consulted her doctor in the previous 36 months about a medical 
condition, (the condition). The terms of the policy meant that she wouldnt have be 
covered if she was off work because of the condition. But, the form has been 
completed to show that she was, by then, on tablets for the condition, so I dont think 
Mrs S would have thought that she was likely have to have to take time off work 
because of it. From this I find that she wouldnt have concluded that that exclusion 
made the policy unsuitable for her. And I havent seen anything to suggest that she 
was adversely affected by any of the policys other main restrictions and limitations - 
such as those affecting someone who was employed under a fixed-term contract;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Mrs S couldnt afford the premiums. Mrs S says that she had to 
keep paying for the policy throughout the term of the mortgage. Im not sure why she 
thought this. Because it was paid for monthly, had she later thought that she couldnt 
afford or no longer wanted it, she could have cancelled it at any time without further 
cost;
Mrs S was entitled to sick pay from her employment, and she says she had a material 
amount of savings. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in 
addition to her other means, leaving the sick pay and savings available to meet her 
other expenses while she was unable to work. So I find that the policy could have been 
of use to her.
BOS had to give Mrs S clear, fair and not-misleading information so that she could make 
an informed decision whether she wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of her 
circumstances at the time. Its possible that BOS didnt tell Mrs S everything that it ought 
to have  for instance that she would have to continue paying the premiums during a 
claim. But, as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for her, I think that with clearer 
information she would still have thought the insurance was reasonable value and be of 
use and have bought it. I say this bearing in mind the serious consequences that could 
have arisen had Mrs S been unable to make her mortgage repayments, which were 
secured on her home. And particularly since she had only recently started her role with 
her then employer and had been made redundant by a previous employer less than two 
and a half years before. As Ive said, Ive thought about everything Mrs S has told us. Including:
That her family could have helped her make her mortgage repayments had she not 
been working. As we explain on our website, we dont usually take this into account 
because circumstances change  and such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres 
nothing Ive found in Mrs S case to make me think its reasonable to deviate from this 
approach here. Ive also noted that Mrs S had some shares at the time of the sale. 
However, the value of shares can fluctuate, and it may not have been convenient or 
financially sensible to sell them in a hurry had she found herself unable to work. 
BOS said that payments for unemployment would start immediately and continue for 
up to 24 months. Whereas the reality was that the policy wouldnt have paid out for the 
first 30 days of any such claim and would have only continued for up to 12 months.  
Because of the time that has passed, I dont know what Mrs S was actually told. As Ive 
said earlier, she is trying to remember what was said at a meeting over 25 years ago. 
So, on balance, I think it is likely that she now recollects the period of 24 months as 
relating to all claims rather than just to claims for accident and sickness, as was in fact 
the case. And, on balance, without further evidence, I dont think I can reasonably 
conclude that BOS incorrectly told her there was no initial waiting period before 
payments would start.
That she was unable to successfully claim on the policy when she was made 
redundant in 2005. She says she wasnt told that she had to sign on following a 
redundancy in order to qualify. And this was something shed never want to do as she 
considered it shameful and shed always been able to find work. However, I find its 
reasonable that Mrs S should have realised that BOS would require her to take all 
reasonable approaches to gain or stay in employment, without success, before it had to 
pay out for unemployment. And Im satisfied that being registered with the Department 
of Employment, (as it then was), was such an approach. And I find it was not an 
unusual or onerous provision which would have meant BOS should have specifically 
pointed it out to Mrs S
So this and her other comments do not change my decision
This means that BOS doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mrs S.
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs S because: 
BOS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because BOS didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.Mrs S says that some letters BOS told her it had sent never arrived and that she has no 
record of missed-calls that it said it had made to her. Im aware that this and delays have 
caused her frustration. However, I have seen copies of some of the letters she said didnt 
arrive and find that they were properly addressed. And I havent any evidence to suggest 
why they wouldnt have been delivered in the normal way. And overall I dont conclude that 
the way BOS has handled Mrs S complaint is such that I ought to make an award for any 
upset it might have caused. I say this taking into account the effect that both the cut-off date 
imposed for payment protection insurance claims and the pandemic, would likely have had 
on BOS ability to deal with complaints at the relevant time in a timely manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive asset out above I find that the MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of 
Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman