DRN-3119576
The complaint
Mr O complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) failed to act quickly enough to recall a payment 
he had sent in error. 
What happened
Mr O says on the 15 September 2020 he made a payment for £9000 using his banking app 
but sent it to the wrong payee in error. Mr O says when he realised what he had done he 
attempted to contact HSBCs call centre, but it was closed, so he explained the issue asking 
for the payment to be recalled, using webchat and was told the matter would be dealt with. 
Mr O says he made several telephone calls and visited his local branch, but it wasnt until 18 
September 2020 he was told the matter was being investigated and awaiting an update. On 
8 October 2020 Mr O says he received payments into his bank account totalling £22 and 
was told this was the total amount HSBC were able to recover. Mr O feels HSBC didnt act 
quickly enough to recover his payment and he has lost £9000 as a result. 
Mr O wants HSBC to return the £9000 to his bank account.
HSBC says they attempted to recover the payment on 17 September 2020, within their 
advised two working days, but unfortunately could only recover £22. HSBC says they have 
provided the name and address details of the beneficiary to assist Mr O, to recover the funds 
and there is nothing further they can do. 
Mr O wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that HSBC couldnt be held responsible for the payment going to the wrong payee as this 
was an error made by Mr O. The investigator says HSBC did attempt to recall the payment 
within the permitted two-day period, but unfortunately the recipient had withdrawn the 
majority of the funds and only £22 was recoverable. While the investigator sympathised with 
Mr O, he didnt feel HSBC had made an error here.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand how upsetting and frustrating it must have been for Mr O to find the 
payment he had made in error, couldnt be recovered by HSBC. When looking at this 
complaint, I will consider whether the actions HSBC took, led to the failure of the recall of the 
payment from the recipients bank account.
The first thing to say here is Mr O has accepted he was responsible for making the error in 
the first place, when he sent the payment using his banking app, but selected the wrong 
payee. Although Mr O says the payee wasnt saved in his app by him, nevertheless, it 
remains his responsibility to properly check any payments before authorising it, so like the 
investigator, I cant hold HSBC responsible for the incorrect payment being sent in the first 
place. 
That said, Mr Os complaint centres around the time it took HSBC to set in place the 
recovery of the payment after he had made them aware of the issue.
From the information provided to this service, I can see Mr O held a webchat with HSBC 
staff, as the call centre had closed for the evening, on 15 September 2020. From the call 
notes provided, I can see Mr O explained at that time he had made a payment for £9000, 
intended for a car purchase but had selected the wrong payee and asked for the payment to 
be recalled. Mr O has told this service that he chased HSBC for an update the following day, 
but felt he wasnt getting anywhere so he visited his branch on the 17 September 2020, 
where he was reassured the matter would be dealt with. 
Mr O says on the 18 September 2020 he was contacted by HSBC informing him they were 
dealing with the matter and he didnt hear anything further from them, until he complained. 
Mr O says he noticed two payments totalling £22 on his bank account on 8 October 2020, 
and it was after this, HSBC explained this amount was all they were able to retrieve from the 
beneficiarys bank. Mr O says he has made attempts to trace the beneficiary, from the 
information provided by HSBC but without success, and he has involved the police, who 
suggested HSBC could have acted sooner than they did. 
While I can understand how upsetting this matter has been for Mr O, when coming to an 
impartial decision I can only rely on the information provided to me. Its important to say that 
I havent been provided with any evidence to understand what HSBCs staff said to Mr O 
when he visited the branch, so its not possible for me to comment on that. From the 
webchat notes I have seen, there is nothing to suggest HSBC ever told Mr O the funds 
would be returned to his bank account, only that they were referring the matter to the 
appropriate team.  
What I can say is, from the system notes provided by HSBC, its clear they instigated the 
recall of the payment on the 17 September 2020 and not later as Mr O believed. While I 
understand Mr O feels they should have acted sooner than that, as the investigator has 
comprehensively explained, the recall was actioned within the 48-hour timescale, detailed in 
the Credit Payment Recovery (CPR) process, for those banks who participate in the faster 
payment service. So, its fair to say although ideally HSBC could have acted sooner, they 
have acted within the guidelines set and what we would expect to see here. 
Unfortunately, Mr O sent a faster payment which cannot be cancelled, and HSBC have 
correctly followed the guidelines set, and I am satisfied they have done nothing wrong. I 
understand the point Mr O has made, that the police have suggested both banks could have 
acted sooner here, but I havent had any evidence to support that, and the police may not 
have understood fully the actions HSBC actually took, so I cant comment on that point. 
Mr O has raised a number of other issues mainly concerning how the recipient bank have 
dealt with the request to recall the monies by HSBC and allowing the funds to be credited in 
the first place, but I can only consider the complaint raised against HSBC here and that is 
what I have done. I understand Mr O has raised a complaint about the recipient banks 
actions, but that will be looked at separately, on its own individual merits. 
Here, for the reasons I have already explained, I cant say HSBC have made any mistakes that led to the payment being sent to the wrong beneficiary or they have made any errors 
when attempting to recall the misplaced payment by Mr O. 
While Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman