DRN-2711159
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it increased the credit 
limit for his credit card.
 
What happened
In 2011 Mr R opened a Vanquis credit card while he was subject to an IVA. The original 
credit limit Vanquis approved was £250 but in 2013 it was increased to £1,000. At the start of 
2015 the credit limit went up to £2,000 and in the summer of 2015 it increased to £3,000. 
After Mr R experienced financial difficulties, he made an arrangement to make payments. 
But due to arrears, the account was closed and defaulted in the summer of 2018.  
Last year Vanquis agreed it would accept around £800 as a partial settlement for the 
outstanding balance. Mr R complained that Vanquis lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card and later increased the credit limit. Vanquis looked at the credit limit increases it 
had approved in the six years before Mr R complained. Vanquis agreed it shouldnt have 
increased Mr Rs credit limit in 2015 and agreed to refund interest and charges applied from 
that date  totalling around £725. Vanquis also agreed to amend Mr Rs credit file and 
remove adverse information reported from 2015 onwards, including the default. After 
Vanquis applied its refund, the outstanding balance reduced to around £1,550 and was 
noted as partially settled on Mr Rs credit file. Vanquis also offered Mr R £50 to apologise for 
providing conflicting and unclear information. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
we can only look at events that occurred six years prior to a complaint being made  so 
could only consider the credit limit increases in 2015 and 2016. The investigator thought 
Vanquis had dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr R 
asked to appeal and said the account shouldnt show as being partially settled on his credit 
file. As Mr R asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, our rules mean we can only look at issues that occurred in the 
six year period leading up to a complaint being made. In this case, that means we can 
consider the limit increases in 2015 from £1,000 to £2,000 and, later, from £2,000 to £3,000. 
Vanquis responded to Mr Rs complaint and agreed it shouldnt have increased the limit on 
his credit card in 2015 as he was still subject to an IVA at that time. Vanquis upheld Mr Rs 
complaint and refunded the interest and charges incurred after the credit limit increased 
above £1,000. The outstanding balance owed was reduced by £725 as a result. 
Vanquis also took the step of removing adverse credit it had reported from February 2015 
onwards. Overall, I think Vanquis has dealt with Mr Rs case fairly. Its taken steps to ensure 
all the interest Mr R paid after February 2015 has been refunded and removed the adverse 
information it reported about arrears and the default from his credit file. 
Mr R has said he feels Vanquis should mark the debt as settled in full on his credit file. Mr R 
says the level of outstanding debt is still higher than the credit limit Vanquis approved when 
it lent irresponsibly. I take Mr Rs point and that he feels the current settlement doesnt return 
him to the correct position. But, Ive looked at Mr Rs statements and can see he used the 
credit card and spent the funds made available by Vanquis. Whilst I agree it would be 
unreasonable for Vanquis to have retained the interest and charges it applied, I think its fair 
the outstanding balance reflects the funds owed on Mr Rs account. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr R but as the account balance wasnt repaid Im satisfied Vanquis decision to report it as 
partially settled is reasonable. 
As Im satisfied Vanquis has dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Vanquis has already arranged a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman