DRN-1563535
The complaint
Ms B complains about UKIs decision to apply the policy limits to the settlement of her pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ms B had advanced level pet insurance with UKI and made a claim when her dog needed 
treatment to improve a condition that affected his hind limbs. UKI agreed to pay for the 
treatment, but only up to the policy limits. 
Ms B complained to UKI because she felt UKIs decision to limit the settlement to what shed 
been charged for the physiotherapy (which was below the policy limit) sessions and £45 for 
the associated consultation (which was over the policy limit) was unfair.
UKI explained the policy limited payment of consultation fees to £45 and £35 for 
physiotherapy sessions, and that physiotherapy was limited to 15 sessions per condition. It 
said the laser therapy sessions were paid in full because they werent covered by a policy 
limit. 
It explained it had been in touch with the vet practice, whod said the treatment they provide 
is more extensive than that of a typically qualified physiotherapist. It said it would consider 
an itemised list of treatments, investigations and medication, but its underwriters had 
reviewed the information and concluded there was no evidence of an enhanced level of 
physiotherapy treatment. 
Ms B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service, arguing the policy covers up to 
£8,000 for each separate condition. But our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He accepted the policy provided cover for up to £8,000 for each separate condition, 
but he thought it was clear that the policy limited cover for consultation fees to £45 per visit 
and physiotherapy sessions up to £35, with a maximum of 15 sessions.
He noted the treatment was described on the invoices as physiotherapy and consultation 
fees, and there was no detail about the nature of the consultation or treatment to support an 
argument that the claim should be considered under a different section of the policy.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with the outcome of her complaint and has asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. Shes provided a letter from the vet practice stating the charge covers 
the time taken during consultations, which far exceeds the average 10-minute consultation 
provided in first opinion practice. Theyve explained the complimentary treatment was 
invoiced under physiotherapy and that they are not a first opinion practice nor simply a 
complimentary therapist, they are a specialist veterinary referral centre. They argue his type 
of specialist consultation cant be subjected to the same limits applied to that of a first 
opinion consultation due to the time taken in clinic. And they have argued the treatment does 
not differ from orthopaedic specialist consultations or soft tissue specialist consultations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states UKI will refund treatment costs for vet fees or complementary 
treatmentunder the following conditionsadvanced up to £8,000 for each separate 
conditionup to £45 towards consultation fees for each separate visit to the vet as a result 
of the conditionup to £35 per session towards hydrotherapy and physiotherapy fees. The 
policy also states UKI wont pay for more than 15 session of hydrotherapy or physiotherapy 
per condition.
Im satisfied these terms are reasonable and that theyre clearly worded. Im also satisfied 
that in agreeing to cover each consultation and physiotherapy session up the policy limit and 
up to 15 sessions per condition (for physiotherapy) UKI was acting within the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
If the cost of a consultation, medication or treatment charged exceeds the limits fairly 
imposed in a policy, this doesnt mean the application of those limits to the claim is unfair, it 
simply means the claim is only partially covered and the policyholder will have to contribute 
to the costs. Its right that the policy limit for each separate condition is £8,000, but this is 
intended to limit the overall liability for individual conditions and is distinct from the limitations 
on individual sessions and consultations.
UKI acknowledged the argument out forward by the vet practice that the treatment the dog 
received during the physiotherapy sessions was more in depth than standard physiotherapy, 
and it reviewed the information it had in this regard. But it concluded there was no evidence 
to support there having been an enhanced level of service, and in the absence of specific 
evidence to support there having been an enhanced level of service, Im satisfied that was 
fair.
In communications with UKI, the vet practice asked UKI what it would need to do to show the 
treatment the dog had received was specialist treatment, and UKI asked for the clinical notes 
to clarify the exact details of the treatment. Having considered those notes, Im satisfied 
UKIs decision to maintain its position was fair. I accept the vet practice did send in the 
medical notes, but in circumstances where they were arguing the treatment was specialist, it 
was for the vet practice to show there was an enhanced level of service and I dont think 
they did that.
The vet practice said the physiotherapy sessions involved specialist treatment and were 
longer than a first opinion consultation. While I accept the sessions were longer than a 
standard consultation, this doesnt mean the additional cost is covered in circumstances 
where the treatment in question had a policy limit. And, critically, there is nothing to support 
the treatment being considered under a different section of the policy.
Ms B has pointed out that she paid for advanced level pet insurance, but the relevant terms 
and conditions still apply, and Im satisfied UKI has applied them fairly. I understand she will 
be disappointed, but Im satisfied the outcome of the claim is fair and for the reasons 
outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman