DRN-2869764
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to void her 
buildings insurance policy after she had made a claim under it.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs P took out a buildings insurance policy with Admiral for a property which 
she had just bought. She told Admiral that she was currently occupying the property and that 
there was no building or renovation work in progress, just cosmetic changes.
In September 2019, Mrs P made a claim to Admiral for malicious damage. She said that a 
local tradesman with whom she was in dispute had broken into the property and smashed 
parts of it with a hammer. She said the tradesman had been arrested.
Admiral arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property. The loss adjuster noted that the 
property was undergoing renovations and had no plumbed toilet facility, nor was it furnished 
for normal living purposes. After making further enquiries, Admiral noted that Mrs P owned 
another property over 80 miles away at which she was still registered on the electoral roll. 
Admiral asked Mrs P about her living arrangements but was not satisfied that she, her 
husband and three children had ever moved into the insured property. It further noted that 
she appeared to be undertaking renovation work and had left the property unoccupied and 
unfurnished without telling it, in breach of the policy terms. It wrote to Mrs P explaining that, 
in view of the above, it was voiding her policy which meant her claim would not be paid.
Mrs P complained to Admiral about its decision. She said that she didnt live in the other 
property she owned and it was used by her extended family as a place to stay when they 
visited from abroad.
Admiral issued a final response letter maintaining its decision to void the policy. It said Mrs P 
had breached the policy terms by undertaking renovation work and leaving the property 
unoccupied without keeping Admiral informed.
Mrs P was unhappy at Admirals decision. She referred her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Admiral initially provided a recording of the telephone call in which Mrs P agreed to take out 
the policy. However, before this call took place, Mrs P had already received a quote from 
Admiral after answering questions through a price comparison website. Admiral has now 
provided details of the questions Mrs P was asked when she made her online application.
These questions, and Mrs Ps answers, included the following:
Q: Is the property your main residence?
A: Yes
Q: When is there normally someone at home?
A: Day and night
Q: How many adults live in the property:
A: 2
Q: How many children live in the property?
A: 3
I consider the question about whether this was Mrs Ps main residence, and the other 
questions, are clear.
After making her claim, Mrs P continued to tell Admiral that the property was her main 
residence. However, she later clarified that she only stayed there some days, along with her 
children. She said that her husband was also resident on some days and, between them, 
they were working on the house to improve it. At the time the damage occurred, the property 
was uninhabitable because it had no kitchen or bathroom facilities but Mrs P said that the 
bathroom and kitchen strip out had occurred only shortly before the incident. She said that 
following the incident, she removed all the furniture apart from a few items such as a camp 
bed and camping toilet for her husbands use while he remained in the property to undertake 
the remaining building and decoration work.
I find Mrs Ps testimony to be contradictory and confusing. Apart from a council tax bill which 
shows that she was receiving a discount because she had declared that she was a single 
occupier, she has provided virtually no evidence to show the property was her main 
residence. She owned another property over eighty miles away at which she was registered 
on the electoral roll, and had three children under the age of twelve. She also had a job 
which, as I understand it, was near to this other residence. There is nothing to indicate that 
she and her family had made the new property their new home, as she had indicated to 
Admiral. For example, there is no evidence that she had registered the property as her new 
address for correspondence with any organisations or that she had enrolled her children in 
any nearby school or childcare facilities.
In light of the lack of evidence, I consider it unlikely that the house was ever Ms Ps main 
residence. Instead, I consider it likely that Ms P remained living with her family at their old 
address, which served as her main residence, while she and her husband renovated the 
new property as and when they were able. This means the answers Ms P gave when she 
took out the policy were wrong.
Admiral has been inconsistent in explaining its reasons for voiding the policy. However, it 
initially said that if it had known that the property would not be Mrs Ps main residence and 
would instead be unoccupied for an indefinite period, it would not have offered the policy. It 
has provided evidence to this effect.
I consider that, while Mrs P and/or her husband may have stayed overnight on occasion 
during the renovation work, the property was not properly lived in and therefore was not her 
main residence and could reasonably be said to be unoccupied. I consider that if Mrs P had 
correctly told Admiral that the property would not be the main residence for her and her 
family, it would have resulted in Admiral not offering her the policy. This means she made a 
qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012. Im satisfied that, in line with the provisions of this Act, it was fair 
for Admiral to void the policy. This also means that Admiral did not need to consider Mrs Ps 
claim.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision. She said that she was still living at the insured 
address and even worked from there because, although her employment was based near 
her other property, she worked from home. She said that gas and electricity bills would 
demonstrate this. She said that full council tax was now being paid on the property and that, 
even before the incident, she and/or her husband would stay there most nights along with 
their children. She considered that the property had remained habitable during the work 
which they were carrying out to update it, albeit that there were temporary toilet and cooking 
facilities.
Admiral didnt offer any comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mrs Ps further comments. However, her response doesnt persuade me to 
change my view.
Mrs P says that she was living at the property and her children were staying at the property 
most nights before the incident. But although she refers to gas and electricity bills, she has 
provided no new evidence. I acknowledge Mrs Ps point that the property was potentially 
habitable. However, if this property was indeed her family home, as she told Admiral it would 
be, I would expect her at the very least to be able to provide evidence of the children having 
been moved from their old school to a new school. I would also expect her to be able to 
provide evidence that she had notified various organisations, such as financial institutions, of 
her new address for correspondence.
The fact that Mrs P has provided virtually no evidence to support that the insured property 
was her main residence leads me to conclude that Mrs P likely remained living for the most 
part with her family at her old address which continued to serve as her main residence.
In view of this, for the reasons I have previously explained, I consider it was fair for Admiral 
to void the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman