DRN-2093849
The complaint
Mr M complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) did not execute his sale 
limit order as soon as the limit price had been reached. Mr M says he has lost around £1,780 
because of the delay.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail by our 
investigator, so I wont repeat them again here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
IISL acted in line with its agreed terms and conditions and provided Mr M with the best 
outcome, considering the market conditions.
Mr M didnt agree. He replied, in some detail, to say, in summary, that:
There must have been enough liquidity for his sale of 10,000 Legal and General shares 
to be traded.
Electronic prices were available, so he doesnt understand why the trade had to be 
placed manually.
Its not clear why the trade didnt take place until 8.51am and IISL should have 
anticipated the market conditions by making sure their dealers were at their desks long 
before the market opened.
He would have lost out completely if the price had dropped below his limit price.
Theres a possibility IISL was acting in its own best interests, and has benefitted at his 
expense.
The terms and conditions protect IISL; he should be owed a duty of care and should 
receive compensation when things go wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The limit price requested by Mr M was reached when the market opened at 8am on 
13 December. This was the day the result of the UK general election was announced and 
the market was experiencing volatility and unusually high trading volumes. The share price 
and trading pattern of Legal and General shares reflected the overall market conditions. IISL 
would normally execute trades electronically  a range of market makers (or Retail Service 
Providers  RSPs) would quote their prices electronically to IISL and its systems would 
select the best price for the client at that particular time. These are not the prices Mr M may 
have seen on his computer that day  rather they are the price at which a market maker is 
prepared to trade with a broker.
But, due to market conditions on 13 December, market makers werent quoting electronic 
prices for a number of shares, including Legal and General. This meant IISL  together with 
other brokers  needed to trade manually. This meant phoning the market makers to obtain 
quotes and trading at the best price. In turn, this resulted in trades not being placed as 
quickly as they would usually be.
Im persuaded by what IISL has told us that Mr Ms order was executed as soon as it could 
be, taking into account market conditions, and at the best price available at that time.
IISL acted in line with its agreed terms and conditions which say (3.17.1):
We will try to execute Limit Orders, Stop Orders and Market Best Orders as soon as 
practicable but market conditions can affect the time it takes to execute such orders and all 
orders are executed in due turn. We cannot guarantee that a Limit Order or a Stop Order will 
be executed even if the limit or stop price is reached. We do not accept any liability for any 
actual or potential loss you may suffer if there is a delay in execution.
This would not cover situations where IISL have wrongly delayed a trade, for example due to 
a mistake  but I dont find this is what happened here.
Whilst I understand Mr M feels very strongly about this matter, I cant conclude that IISL 
failed in its duty of care to act in Mr Ms best interests or that it benefitted from the outcome 
as he suggests.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman