DRN-2782757
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS) handled her legal expenses insurance claim in relation to data stored on a mobile 
phone. 
What happened
Ms B paid a company to repair her mobile phone. But she said that they destroyed the 
phone, including data on it, which she says is worth in excess of £90,000. She wanted to 
pursue this matter by using her legal expenses insurance policy. 
DAS confirmed that cover was available under the terms of the policy for a breach of 
contract claim. It said it could send details across to solicitors specially trained in clinical 
negligence cases to deal with the claim. Ms B was unhappy as she said this wasnt a clinical 
negligence claim so she needed a solicitor who specialised in telecommunications law. DAS 
said there was an error in the email, and it shouldve stated that the three firms on offer were 
specially trained in contractual disputes. 
Ms B told DAS that she couldnt use one of the firms due to a conflict of interest and asked it 
to provide three law firms in the Legal 500.  She said she wouldnt use any firm that wasnt in 
the Legal 500. And Ms B said that DAS had told her, if there was a conflict of interest, shed 
have the right to choose her own law firm. Ms B has said that she doesnt trust a DAS panel 
firm of solicitors to make an assessment about a case so closely connected to one against 
another DAS firm in a separate legal matter. 
DAS said it didnt agree that Ms B could appoint her chosen solicitor. It said it wasnt willing 
to consider allowing her to appoint her own solicitor unless the claim reaches a stage where 
legal proceedings are necessary. And it doesnt think its been unreasonable in offering the 
three law firms it did. It provided Ms B with details around why its arrangement with panel 
solicitors is advantageous, including beneficial cost agreements which mean indemnity limits 
go further, and knowing their expertise and the kind of claims where they are best placed to 
assist. DAS also stated that the cover provided by Ms Bs legal expenses policy didnt say 
the firms offered were required to be within the Legal 500. 
DAS said the policy wording confirmed that the policyholder could choose their own solicitor 
if there was a conflict of interest. And it said that while Ms B may have had a conflict on 
interest with previous claims, it would be arranging to check with its preferred firms whether 
there was a conflict of interest in this matter. If there was, Ms B would be able to choose her 
own solicitor as long as they agreed to DASs Terms of Appointment and an hourly rate of 
£100, as quoted in the policy wording. But Ms B asked DAS not to carry out this check. It 
agreed not to and concluded there was nothing to suggest the offered firms would be unable 
to act for Ms B in respect of this claim. 
From DASs perspective, it hasnt acted wrongly by offering three preferred solicitors. But it 
made an offer of £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim 
and complaint, acknowledging that there had been several breakdowns in the quality of 
communication. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She concluded that it wasnt unreasonable for 
DAS to consider the claim under the contract dispute section of the policy. She noted that 
the policy states a preferred law firm would be appointed and said that DAS is responsible 
for ensuring a reasonably qualified solicitor is appointed  and felt it was fair to appoint one 
qualified to deal with contract disputes, rather than the more specific area of 
telecommunications law. She didnt think DAS had been unreasonable in offering a choice 
of three solicitors and said the policy terms didnt require it to provide a Legal 500 firm. She 
also didnt think DAS had acted unreasonably in its handling of the potential conflict of 
interest. 
Ms B disagreed. She felt it hadnt been taken into consideration that DAS was a direct client 
of one of the panel solicitors. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms B, Im not upholding this complaint  
Ill explain why.
Before I do, I should explain that while Ive been provided with a wealth of information, the 
crux of this complaint is that Ms B wanted to use a solicitor of her own choosing when 
progressing her legal expenses claim against the company that allegedly destroyed data on 
her mobile phone. DAS offered three of its preferred firms of solicitors, but Ms B feels 
strongly that these firms werent appropriate to use. 
DAS agreed that the matter was covered by the contract dispute section of the policy. It 
appears that Ms B disagreed with this. But I dont consider it necessary to explore this 
further as DAS agreed there was cover  and the dispute around the choice of solicitor is 
unrelated to which section of the policy cover is provided under.  
The policy documentation says:
On receiving a claim, if legal representation is necessary, we will appoint a preferred 
law firm as your appointed representative to deal with your claim.
It defines preferred law firm as:
A law firm or barristers chambers we choose to provide legal services  
So, in line with this, DAS offered a choice of three of its preferred law firms for Ms B to 
choose from. But it was Ms Bs understanding that she could choose her own firm of 
solicitors. 
The terms say that if the appointed preferred law firm cant negotiate a settlement of the 
claim and its necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued or there is a conflict 
of interest, then the insured can choose a law firm to act as the appointed representative. 
And if they choose a law firm who is not a preferred law firm, DAS would give the chosen law 
firm the opportunity to act on the same terms as a preferred law firm. If they refuse to act 
under these terms, the most DAS would pay is the amount they wouldve paid if they had 
agreed to the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment (which are defined within the policy).So, the policyholder can choose their own solicitors but only if certain situations apply. The 
first of these is if DASs preferred law firm cant negotiate a settlement and its necessary to 
go to court and legal proceedings are issued. But Ms B didnt accept any of the preferred law 
firms offered. This means that we dont know if a settlement could have been negotiated or if 
it wouldve been necessary for it to go to court. We also dont know if the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. Under the policy terms, its for DAS or a preferred law firm 
on its behalf, to make this assessment and cover will only be provided if its deemed the 
prospects of success are at least 51%. But as Ms B declined the law firms on offer, the claim 
didnt reach this point. So, I cant reasonably say that Ms B should have been able to use her 
own solicitor on the basis of the claim needing to go to court. 
The other situation in which the policyholder could choose their own solicitor is where theres 
a conflict of interest. I appreciate that Ms B feels very strongly that theres a conflict of 
interest. Based on her testimony, it appears that Ms B has dealt with one of the preferred law 
firms previously and the alleged conflict has stemmed from this experience. While Im not 
necessarily persuaded that theres a conflict of interest here  that firm isnt the one that has 
allegedly caused the loss of data  if we assume theres a conflict, another two options were 
provided and I havent been given persuasive evidence of why neither of these could be 
used. 
Ms B has indicated that theres an issue with DASs preferred law firms, largely due to them 
being firms chosen by DAS rather than because of the firms themselves. But DAS is entitled 
to have panel solicitors and to expect policyholders to use one of those, other than in the 
situations described above. I think it was reasonable for DAS to reject the use of an 
alternative solicitor, in favour of one of its three preferred law firms, at this stage in the 
process.
I also note that Ms B requested a law firm within the Legal 500 but this isnt something that 
the policy states it provides  so DAS wasnt required to do so. And while Ms B said she 
needed a law firm that specialised in telecommunications law, the policy documents say that 
the preferred law firm(s) offered are chosen as they have the proven expertise to deal with 
your claim and must comply with our agreed service standard levels, which we audit 
regularly. DAS is satisfied that the firms offered had the relevant expertise to deal with 
Ms Bs claim and I havent been provided with satisfactory evidence to the contrary. 
So for the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Based on the evidence 
provided, I dont think DAS needs to offer alternative solicitors to those already offered at this 
stage.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman