DRN-3143403
The complaint
Ms G complains that Studio Retail Limited hasnt refunded her account in relation to a faulty 
sofa.
What happened
In September 2020 Ms G ordered a sofa from Studio on her credit account. In October 2020 
the sofa was dispatched to Ms G. In January 2021, Ms G complained to Studio that the sofa 
was faulty. Studio asked Ms G to provided evidence of the fault and said it would arrange for 
a technician to inspect the sofa.
In February 2021 Ms G contacted Studio and asked when the faulty sofa would be collected. 
She said shed been told that the interest and late payment charges on her account would 
be removed. Ms Gs call was transferred to the customer services team. The adviser 
mistakenly thought that the sofa had been collected already and refunded the interest and 
charges. The adviser told Ms G that her account would be refunded 21 days after collection.
In March 2021, Ms G contacted Studio again. She said her account hadnt been refunded 
and she was still being charged interest. Studio looked into the complaint and found that the 
sofa hadnt been collected and that no refund was due. It said it hadnt received a response 
from Ms G to an email it had sent to her in February 2021 about arranging an inspection of 
the sofa.
Ms G was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. She says shes 
returned the sofa and wants a refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest that 
the sofa had been collected, and that there were no grounds to ask Studio to refund Ms Gs 
account.
Ms G didnt agree. She said shed had numerous conversations with Studio in which it had 
confirmed that the sofa had been collected and that she would receive a refund. She said 
the sofa had been collected but she was unbale to provide a receipt as the courier hadnt 
given her one.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods supplied 
must be of satisfactory quality. It also says that if theres a fault with the goods, the business 
is allowed an opportunity to put things right  either by repairing or replacing the goods. A 
business will usually want to inspect the goods to see whether theres a fault, and to decide 
whether to repair or replace.
In this case, Studio has said that it emailed Ms G to arrange an inspection of the sofa, but it 
didnt receive a reply. I dont think its likely that Studio would have arranged collection of the 
sofa with a view to refunding it until it had caried out an inspection of the fault.
Ms G ordered the sofa in September 2020 and received it in October 2020. At around the 
same time, Ms G returned another sofa shed ordered earlier in the year. The return of the 
first sofa was processed in October 2020 and a refund was issued that month.
I can see that Ms G contacted Studio to complain about the sofa in January 20021. Studios 
email regarding arranging the inspection was sent in February 2021, but it isnt clear whether 
Ms G received this because she contacted Studio a few days later and asked when the sofa 
would be collected, which was at odds with the content of the email.
Ive listened to the available calls. Its clear that Ms G was asking about a refund. But the 
sofa hadnt been collected at this time, so I think its likely that Ms G was chasing up a refund 
for the first sofa, which had been collected. If Im wrong about that, I still think its clear that 
the second sofa hadnt been collected at this time. However,the call handler thought the sofa 
had been collected, so it seems likely that the conversation was at cross purposes. This 
explains why the call handler told Ms G that her refund would be processed 21 days 
following collection.
The real issue here is whether the sofa was collected at some point, and whether Ms G 
should receive a refund. Ms G has been asked to provide evidence that the sofa was 
collected such as a rescript from the courtier, but shes said that the courtier didnt give her 
anything. Studio has asked the courier whether it collected anything from Ms G, and it has 
said that it didnt. Studio has provided its system notes which show the collection of the first 
sofa, and the request to inspect the second sofa. But theres nothing in the system notes to 
indicate that a collection of the seconds sofa was arranged.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the sofa was collected. Theres no 
evidence to suggest that a collection of the sofa was arranged or that a collection took place. 
It seems unlikely that Studio would have arranged to collect the sofa before it had inspected 
it, and the request made to inspect the sofa in February 2021 was never replied to by Ms G. 
The courier has stated that it didnt collect the sofa and Ms G doesnt have a receipt to show 
otherwise.
Even if Studio did say to Ms G that the sofa had been collected, I think this was said in error, 
and that the adviser was talking about the first sofa. All of the evidence in this case points 
towards the sofa not having been collected, so I wont be asking Studio to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman