DRN-2391335
The complaint
Mrs H complained that her claim for theft was unfairly declined by esure Insurance Limited 
(esure) under her home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs H said her bag was stolen from next to her whilst out shopping. As part of her trip, shed 
planned on making a trip to the jewellers, so her bag contained some valuable items. Her 
bag contained some gold bangles, a valuable watch, a small amount of cash and some bank 
cards. Mrs H was able to cancel her bank cards and she made a claim to esure for her 
designer handbag and its contents.
As part of esures claim validation process, it asked Mrs H to provide proof of ownership for 
the items that had been stolen. Mrs H was able to show that shed cancelled her cards. She 
was unable to provide a receipt and evidence of payment from herself for the watch and 
bangles but did provide alternative evidence to support her ownership of the items. She was 
unable to provide any evidence of ownership of the handbag apart from a photograph of her 
using the handbag, so she withdrew the claim for this.
esure reviewed the evidence that Mrs H provided, but it didnt think the evidence provided for 
the bangles and watch sufficiently proved that Mrs H was the owner of these items. As esure 
didnt think Mrs H had proven ownership for the bangles and watch it declined her claim. Mrs 
H complained as she thought she had provided enough evidence of proof of ownership.
Our investigators view was to uphold Mrs Hs complaint as she thought Mrs H provided 
enough evidence to support that she owned both the bangles and the watch. Our 
investigator said esure should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, on the basis that proof of ownership had been provided.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the process of validating the claim, esure has put further questions to Mrs H which 
relate to aspects of the theft that go beyond proof of ownership. esure rejected the claim as it 
said Mrs H hasnt provided enough evidence that she owned the items that were stolen. 
Proof of ownership is the only reason esure have given for rejecting the claim and this was 
the subject of the complaint raised by Mrs H. Therefore, for the avoidance of doubt, this 
decision has only considered the issue of proof of ownership for the bangles and watch, as 
well as the associated complaint on the length of time it has taken for esure to validate the 
claim.
If I am to uphold Mrs Hs complaint, I need to see evidence that Mrs H has proved she 
owned the bangles and watch that she was claiming for. As esure declined the claim 
because it didnt think Mrs H provided adequate proof, Ill need to decide whether thats fair 
in the circumstances of the complaint.  
esure asked Mrs H to provide proof of ownership for both the bangles and watch. Given, the 
high value that Mrs H said these items were worth and given they represent the majority 
value share of what was stolen, I think its reasonable that esure asked Mrs H to provide 
proof of ownership as part of the claim validation. This is set out in its terms and conditions.
As with all insurance policies, its the responsibility of Mrs H to show she has suffered a loss. 
Its normal for esure to ask for receipts where possible. However, our services view is that 
most people wont keep receipts for every item they own. Often items may be inherited or 
gifted, so often consumers own items they would never have had a receipt for. For this 
reason, our service will often consider other types of evidence to show a consumer owned 
an item. I will consider the evidence that has been presented separately for each item.
The watch
Mrs H has said that she bought the watch as a gift for her husband. She said she had a poor 
credit record, so she said her aunt agreed to purchase the watch for her on a finance 
agreement and Mrs H agreed informally to pay her aunt back.
Mrs H has provided a receipt of an online purchase for a watch by her aunt for a value of 
£3,250. She has also provided her bank statement that shows she made a payment to her 
aunt for £325 at the time of the purchase, which Mrs H said was for the deposit to the 
retailer. Mrs H has also provided details of the credit agreement in place and provided 
evidence showing 6 monthly payments have been paid to her aunt. Bank statements have 
been provided with Mrs H for four months which show these payments leaving her bank 
account.
Mrs H has provided photographs to esure showing her husband wearing the watch. esure 
havent disputed the photographs.
Mrs H has provided esure with the box that she says the watch was packaged in and its 
warranty card. esure have since returned the box to Mrs H and said the box was damaged, 
but it hasnt challenged this evidence.
esure have said the watch had been added as a valuable item on Mrs Hs insurance 
schedule and it increased the premiums Mrs H was paying to do this. I think esure have 
shown it was happy insuring this item for Mrs H, so it would seem fair that it would pay out 
for any valid claims on the watch.
I think the evidence that has been provided by Mrs H is reasonable proof of ownership of the 
watch. The watch was added to the insurance schedule and there are photographs of Mrs 
Hs husband wearing the watch which have not been disputed by esure.
Mrs H has provided evidence of the purchase of the watch by her aunt. esure asked for 
further proof from Mrs H that she had fully repaid her aunt and for all her bank statements. I 
dont think this is an unreasonable request. However, I also dont think the absence of this 
evidence disproves the ownership of the watch. Mrs H has provided a reasonable 
explanation of why she purchased the watch in the manner she has and there is evidence of 
payments being made to her aunt which match the timing of when the watch was bought and 
when the credit agreement was taken out. I think this provides reasonable evidence that Mrs 
H owned the watch, which she gifted to her husband. Whether Mrs H has fully repaid her 
informal loan with her aunt is separate and I dont think it really has any bearing on the 
ownership of the watch for this claim.
esure made a point that the box the watch was purchased in was in bad condition. However, 
I struggle to see how this impacts on the ownership of the watch. I think Mrs H has provided plenty of evidence to prove she owned the watch, so I think esure have been unfair in 
declining the claim for this reason. Therefore, I uphold this part of the complaint.
The bangles 
Mrs H said she doesnt have a receipt from the purchase of the bangles. Her husband has 
explained that the bangles were gifted to Mrs H as a wedding gift and their family had 
purchased the bangles through part exchanging other jewellery as well as paying with some 
cash. Given the purchase was a gift and was from over five years ago, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Mrs H doesnt have a receipt as proof of ownership. So, I dont think its 
fair that esure have declined the claim as a receipt hasnt been provided. I have considered 
the other evidence that has been provided by Mrs H to prove her ownership of the bangles.
Mrs H has provided many photographs of her wearing the bangles, both in a ceremonial 
setting and from day to day wear. Mrs H has claimed for 8 bangles, 6 of one variety and two 
of another. I think the photographs do support Mrs Hs ownership of 8 bangles, so I find them 
persuasive that she owned the jewellery as opposed to borrowing someone elses jewellery 
for special events. Given I think Mrs H has provided reasonable proof of ownership for the 
bangles, I think esure have been unfair in declining the claim for this reason and therefore, I 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
In summary, I think Mrs H has proved ownership of the items she is claiming for, so I think 
esure have been unfair in declining the claim for not proving ownership. esure are required 
to reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, on the 
basis that proof of ownership has been provided. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
on the basis that proof of ownership has been provided.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman