DRN-3233815
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) didnt pay, in full, a claim 
made on her travel insurance policy. 
Mrs R is being represented in this complaint. But Ill refer to her throughout as she is the 
policyholder as detailed on the schedule of insurance. 
What happened
Mrs R had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, superior travel insurance policy, underwritten 
by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 31 March 2019 to 30 March 2020.
Mrs R travelled to a country Ill call K on 2 March 2020. She was due to return to the UK on 
15 March 2020. The airline who she was due to fly back to the UK with contacted Mrs R on 
12 March 2020 notifying her that the return flight had been cancelled. As a result, Mrs R 
ended up staying in K until mid-May 2020 when she was able to arrange a return flight to the 
UK.
As the UK airport she returned to was different to the one she departed from on 2 March 
2020 (and was originally due to return to), she arranged for a private car to drive her back 
home once she returned to the UK.
Mrs R made a claim under the policy for certain costs including the return flight back to the 
UK and the private car. She did end up receiving a refund from the airline whod cancelled 
her original return flight.
As a gesture of goodwill URV paid Mrs R £500 under the travel disruption section of the 
policy. Unhappy, Mrs R raised a complaint with URV.
By way of a final response letter dated April 2021, and as a further gesture of goodwill, URV 
also offered to pay £200 towards the cost of the private car Mrs R arranged to return her 
home from the UK airport. It also offered her £20 on the basis that her return flight was 
delayed by more than 12 hours. 
Mrs R didnt think she had been treated fairly by URV, so she referred her complaint to our 
Service to look into. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Mrs R disagreed and 
raised several points in reply. Her complaint has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and promptly. And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules into account when reaching my decision. 
I know Mrs R will very disappointed, but Im satisfied that URV has acted fairly and 
reasonably here. Ill explain why below.
Pages 28 and 29 of the policy provide for URV to pay certain costs if Mrs Rs 
outbound travel plans are disrupted due to particular listed, insured reasons. Mrs R 
did experience a combined delay of over 12 hours (but less than 24 hours)  but this 
was when taking her inbound journey back to the UK. So, I dont think the 
circumstances of her claim are covered under her policy. However, even if Im wrong 
on that point, the maximum Mrs R is entitled to under that sub-section of the policy is 
£200. The total sum of the gesture of goodwill URV has offered Mrs R is in excess of 
that sum, so I dont think she has lost out even if URV reasonably ought to have paid 
her the full £200 limit under this section of the policy (which I dont think it reasonably 
shouldve). 
None of the other prescribed reasons of the travel disruption section of the policy 
apply to the circumstances which resulted in Mrs Rs return flight being cancelled, 
and her travel plans being disrupted. As a gesture of goodwill URV agreed to pay 
Mrs R £500  which is the financial limit set by the policy relating to claims for 
alternative transport to get you to your trip destination. This applies when the vehicle 
in which you are travelling to your international departure point becomes undrivable 
due to mechanical failure or being involved in an accident or your public transport is 
delayed, preventing you from being able to check-in on time for your outward 
departure from the United Kingdom, or your connecting flight. Im satisfied that Mrs 
Rs trip wasnt disrupted for these reasons and URV has acted outside of the terms of 
the policy to make the maximum payment to Mrs R under this sub-section of the 
travel disruption section of the policy. I dont think thats unreasonable and it isnt 
something I wouldve reasonably expected URV to have done in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
Having reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, Im also satisfied that there 
isnt any other cover in the circumstances Mrs R found herself in. For example, 
pages 32 and 33 of the policy provides for URV to pay certain costs if Mrs R needed 
to come home early due to particular listed, insured reasons. Not only do none of the 
prescribed reasons apply to the circumstances which resulted in Mrs Rs return flight 
being cancelled, but her trip wasnt cut short. She departed K  to return to the UK  
a couple of months after shed originally planned to do so. Further, the natural 
disaster section of the policy (at pages 42 and 43) doesnt apply to the circumstances 
Mrs R found herself in either. 
Page 24 of the policy says Mrs R isnt covered for the cost of taxi fares. Although Mrs 
R says a private car collected her from the UK airport and drove her home after she 
managed to return to the UK, theres nothing in the policy to say that those costs are 
covered. So, Im satisfied URV has acted fairly and reasonably by offering Mrs R 
£200 towards the cost of the private car home. Although thats less than the amount 
she paid, that isnt something covered by the policy and, in the circumstances, I dont 
think its something that URV reasonably ought to have paid. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Rs comments including those set out in an email 
dated 16 January 2022. Whilst I appreciate Mrs R has been left out of pocket as a 
result of her return flight being cancelled on 12 March 2020  through no fault of her 
own - travel insurance policies dont cover every scenario. Having considered the 
terms of the policy Mrs R had the benefit of, I dont think URV has acted unfairly or unreasonably by the amounts offered towards the total costs claimed in this case  
even though thats less than Mrs Rs losses. 
I also note that Mrs R is unhappy about the delay in handling her claim, the number 
of times URV had to be contacted on her behalf and other customer service issues. 
However, even if I accepted that URVs customer service fell below a reasonable 
standard and this caused her some distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied that the 
amounts offered by URV as a gesture of goodwill in this case (which Im satisfied it 
wasnt reasonably required to do) sufficiently compensates Mrs R for any distress 
and inconvenience she experienced as a result of any customer service issues 
and/or delays in handling her claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman