DRN-4124007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs D had booked to travel on a 
cruise, which was scheduled to depart on 10 July 2022 from a town in a country Ill call N. 
Their outbound flight was a connecting flight, the first leg travelling from the UK to a city in N 
on 9 July 2022. Following an overnight stopover, the second leg of the flight was then due to 
fly on to the place from where the cruise was departing, in time for Mr and Mrs D to board 
the ship. 
Two days before they were due to fly to N, Mr and Mrs D received an email from the cruise 
operator, stating that there was a chance that their flights could be affected by strikes. 
However, the cruise operator gave a second opportunity for delayed passengers to meet the 
cruise on 12 July 2022. So Mr and Mrs D flew to N as planned on 9 July 2022. However, 
after their arrival in N, the second leg of their flight was cancelled due to the strikes. And the 
airline told Mr and Mrs D that it couldnt find them suitable alternative seats to travel on to the 
cruise departure point. As such, Mr and Mrs D werent able to take the second leg of their 
flight in time to board the cruise at either opportunity and so they returned to the UK. They 
made a claim on the policy for their costs.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ds claim. It said the circumstances of the claim 
werent covered by any section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
cancellation section of the policy covered abandonment if a policyholders flight was delayed 
by more than 12 hours. Mr and Mrs Ds flight had been effectively delayed by more than 12 
hours. While she acknowledged that Mr and Mrs Ds flight had been cancelled rather than 
delayed, she thought the effect on them had been the same. She accepted that Mr and Mrs 
Ds cancelled flight had been a connecting flight, which was excluded by the policy terms. 
But she didnt think Great Lakes had made this exclusion clear enough in the contract 
documentation. And she felt that had it done so, Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have purchased this 
particular policy. Overall, she recommended that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim, together with interest and that it should also pay them £150 compensation.
Great Lakes disagreed. It maintained that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I 
think Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ds contract with Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Ds cruise holiday had to be abandoned during 
their outbound journey to their cruise departure point  a point they never reached. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to consider the claim in line with the 
cancellation section of the policy. 
Page 15 sets out the listed, specific insured events for which Great Lakes has chosen to 
provide cancellation cover. One of these is if:
you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your 
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
So Ive gone on to consider the Travel Delay section of the policy. This says:
We pay up to the amount shown on the table of benefits if the intended departure of your 
first outward or final inward international flight, sea crossing or coach or train journey forming 
part of a booked trip, is delayed as a direct result of strike or industrial action, adverse
weather conditions, failure of air traffic control systems, an act of terrorism (affecting your 
return journey only), or mechanical breakdown of aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
Alternatively you can choose to abandon your trip and submit a Cancellation claim under 
Section 1, should you experience a delay as specified above, of more than 12 hours beyond 
the intended departure time.
Im satisfied then that Great Lakes provides cancellation cover if a policyholder has to 
abandon their trip after a delay to their outbound flight of more than 12 hours, because of 
strike action. Its clear though that in this case, Mr and Mrs Ds flight was cancelled, rather 
than delayed. And that the flight cancellation took place on the second leg of their outbound 
flight from the UK to the cruise departure point. As such, on a strict application of the policy 
terms, Mr and Mrs Ds claim isnt covered.
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms if I think their 
application produces an unfair result. And thats the case here, as Ill go on to explore.
As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs D were told, two days before they were due to travel, that 
their flight could be affected by strikes, but that there was another chance to board the cruise 
two days later if they were delayed. In my view, Mr and Mrs D acted as prudent insureds by 
flying to N on 9 July 2022, in order to try and mitigate their losses as much as possible and 
to take steps to board their cruise as planned. Mr and Mrs Ds second leg of the flight was 
cancelled by the airline, due to strike action. It wasnt able to offer them a replacement flight. 
So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ds flight was delayed, due to an insured reason, for more 
than 12 hours. And whether the flight was cancelled or delayed, the impact on Mr and Mrs D was the same  they were unable to take their flight and therefore, missed the opportunity to 
board their cruise. Nor were they able to arrange replacement flights which would get them 
to their boarding point in time to take the cruise. Or indeed which would get them to the 
boarding point in order for them to connect with the cruise when it returned to the original 
departure point to meet delayed passengers. So I dont think Mr and Mrs D couldve 
reasonably taken any further steps to try and mitigate their losses. Accordingly, I think they 
had little choice but to decide to abandon their trip and return to the UK. 
I appreciate the Travel Delay section provides cover for the first outward international flight. 
But in these circumstances, I find its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat Mr and Mrs 
Ds cancelled flight as falling within the scope of cover. I say that because Mr and Mrs Ds 
flight was booked as one flight from the UK to N, even though it was broken down into two 
legs. And I note that Great Lakes hasnt expanded on what it means by first outward 
international flight within the policy terms.
The Travel Delay section of the policy states that Great Lakes wont cover:
any costs incurred as a result of you missing a connecting flight.
Ive thought about this carefully, as Im mindful that Mr and Mrs Ds flights were booked as 
connecting flights. With that said, it isnt at all clear that this exclusion could fairly apply to the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds claim. Thats because Mr and Mrs D didnt miss their 
connecting flight  it was cancelled. 
Even if Im wrong on this point though, I agree with our investigator that Great Lakes didnt 
clearly highlight this exclusion within the policy documentation. In my view, exclusions for 
connecting flights are a significant restriction on policy cover which ought to be drawn to a 
policyholders attention in the policy documentation. However, the Insurance Product 
Information Document, which sets out an at-a-glance summary of the main features and 
exclusions of the policy, doesnt include this term. I dont think that by including the exclusion 
on page 21 of the policy, Great Lakes did enough to draw Mr and Mrs Ds attention to it.
Given Mr and Mrs Ds ability to reach the cruise departure point depended upon them taking 
connecting flights, I think this exclusion is likely to have been important to them. And so I find 
its unlikely theyd have chosen to buy this cruise-specific policy had the term been made 
clear enough. 
Overall, based on the specific facts of this complaint, I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
Great Lakes to have turned down Mr and Mrs Ds claim. Im persuaded that an effective 
delay of more than 12 hours, due to an insured reason, led to Mr and Mrs D having no 
choice but to abandon their trip. On that basis, I find it would be fair and reasonable for Great 
Lakes to treat this claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy and to now 
settle Mr and Mrs Ds claim, in line with the policy terms, together with interest.
Id add that I think Great Lakes could have done more to progress this claim more quickly 
than it did and there were delays too in it responding to Mr and Mrs Ds concerns. I dont 
doubt that this caused Mr and Mrs D unnecessary, additional frustration and inconvenience. 
So I agree with our investigators recommendation that Great Lakes must also pay Mr and 
Mrs D £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to treat Mr and Mrs Ds claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy and to now pay their claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% 
simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement. *
I also direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs D £150 compensation.
*If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman