The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited)) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs K. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. This is because I dont think AXA made clear the 
real costs, or the limits on benefits, of the PPI policy. I think this would have made a 
difference to any decision Mrs K may have made to take PPI. I say this because the level of 
her likely employer sick pay would have probably made the cost of the PPI not seem 
worthwhile. And she also says she had quite good savings, and so the PPI would have 
seemed even less necessary. 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mrs K in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs K would have owed when she closed her credit
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs K owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
DRN-1510290B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs K would have
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when
Mrs K wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be  8% a
year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs K would have owed each month without PPI 
Mrs K paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple
interest on the extra Mrs K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Mrs K wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be
8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs K what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs K that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman