DRN-3178635
The complaint
Ms S complains that Investec Bank PLC (Investec) wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has made detailed submissions, which Ive read and considered  along with 
everything else  in their entirety. I wont be responding in the same level of detail. It isnt my 
role to respond to each and every point made, and I hope the parties wont consider this a 
discourtesy. In keeping with our role for quick and informal resolution, Ill be concentrating on 
the crux of the issue.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Ms S authorised the payments in question. So, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, shes presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Investec should fairly and reasonably:
oHave been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams; 
oHave had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and 
oIn some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment; or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
That said, when simply executing authorised payments, Investec doesnt have to 
protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. So, Ive 
first considered whether the merchant (M) Ms S says scammed her was a fraudster. 
Cryptocurrency investments of this type  which are generally unregulated  
sometimes use sales methods that are arguably unethical and/or misleading. 
However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or 
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing 
to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing 
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive taken account the evidence Ms S has provided about why she thinks M set out 
with the intent to defraud her. On balance, Im not persuaded Ive got enough to show 
thats the more likely explanation  given the high bar for showing fraud was 
intended. There are other explanations, such as that M acted unethically, or that it 
ran into difficulty and wasnt able to deliver what it set out to. M appears to have links 
to a genuine firm which has been regulated by the UK financial services regulator 
(the FCA). And Ive not found any FCA or IOSCO (International Organisation of 
Securities Commission) had identified M, or any connections Im aware of to M, as 
operating a scam. So Im not persuaded Investec had a duty to intervene here.
Regardless, if I found M was a scam, Id then need to consider whether Investec fell 
short of the expectations I set out above. And whether any such failings led to her 
loss. I dont have enough to show whether these transactions ought reasonably to 
have appeared suspicious, based on Ms Ss general account use. But even if they 
should have, Im not persuaded further checks by Investec would have prevented Ms 
Ss loss. There wasnt public information about M (such as an FCA warning) that 
showed M was a scam, rather than a company legitimately providing cryptocurrency 
services  which it wouldnt need FCA regulation to do. At the time of these 
transactions  early 2018  there was less industry knowledge about these types of 
scams. Investec might reasonably have pointed out that cryptocurrency trading is a 
high-risk activity, which I think Ms S likely already knew, in which scams were known 
to occur. But without any specific reason to doubt M, Im not persuaded that such an 
intervention would have prevented Ms S from making the transactions  which she 
was satisfied to do at the time based on her own research and knowledge. I havent 
identified any failings by Investec that contributed, or led, to her loss. 
Ms S has queried whether Investec should reimburse her in line with the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). But the CRM 
Code wasnt in effect at the time of Ms Ss transactions, nor is Investec a signatory. 
And it doesnt cover debit card payments (which is how these transactions were 
made). So shes not entitled to a refund from Investec on these grounds.
Ive also considered whether Investec should have done more to recover Ms Ss loss. 
Although the chargeback scheme covers debit card payments, a claim on this basis 
would need to be raised within 540 days of the transactions. But Ms S didnt dispute 
these with Investec until 2020  and the payments were made in early 2018. So I 
dont think Investec could have done more to recover the loss, as it would have been 
too late to consider a chargeback claim. 
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly hold Investec liable for Ms Ss loss as Ive not found 
this to be caused by Investecs acts or omissions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman