DRN-3703839
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society provided poor service and she felt 
discriminated against when she visited a branch to withdraw cash.
What happened
In January 2022, Miss C visited a branch of Nationwide to withdraw £600 cash.
Miss C was surprised to be asked security questions as other Nationwide branches 
authenticate her differently, such as through a banking app. So, she challenged the 
representative.
Miss C says the teller took a dislike to her and was rude. And, because she was wearing a 
headscarf and appears Somali physically, she feels she was discriminated against.
Nationwide say Miss C refused to answer security questions, so they politely asked her to 
write the answers down. However, Miss C responded in a rude way and started shouting.
Soon after, Miss C received an unacceptable behaviour letter from Nationwide saying that, 
when she visited the branch, she raised her voice to a staff member and spoke to them in an 
intimidating manner. Miss C considered this to be a false allegation and was distressed as 
she felt she had been on the receiving end of poor behaviour. In addition, Nationwide said 
the details contained in the letter would be retained and an alert of the outcome would be 
added to her profile for six months.
Miss C complained to Nationwide who said they were satisfied that there hadnt been any 
service errors.
Miss C complained to our service and our investigator didnt think Nationwide had 
discriminated against Miss C or acted unfairly or unreasonably by carrying out its 
identification process.
As Miss C remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain how Ive come to my 
decision.
Firstly, I would like to highlight that it is not my role to decide if the Equality Act has been 
breached here as thats for a court to decide. However, Ive looked at whether Miss C was 
treated fairly when she visited a Nationwide branch to withdraw cash.
As there are two different versions of the events that took place, I have to reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I questioned why CCTV footage of Miss Cs visit wasnt available despite Miss C raising her 
complaint with Nationwide within the required timescale. And, following a review of 
Nationwides communication records, Im satisfied that CCTV was requested and the 
deletion was a genuine error. 
Although the footage wasnt retained and its not possible to corroborate the testimony 
submitted by Miss C, I agree it wouldve been difficult to verify the unreasonable behaviour 
alleged by Nationwide staff even if the footage was retained. This is because the CCTV is 
likely to have been silent and the allegations from Nationwide staff are that Miss C was 
intimidating and aggressive because she raised her voice and was abrupt. 
Also, whilst there are several testimonies that describe this behaviour, I had to bear in mind 
this was from staff members who were colleagues. I also considered it wouldve been 
unlikely for Miss C to request tapes to vindicate herself if she thought they would show her 
acting unreasonably. So, its difficult to confirm Miss C displayed behaviour which was 
unreasonable.
However, from reviewing the file notes I think its more likely than not that Miss C challenged 
Nationwide staff and expressed dissatisfaction. This is because its clear from both Miss Cs 
comments and the testimonies that Nationwide staff felt a need to ask security questions and 
there was a dispute over the necessity and method. 
Nationwide have explained their cash withdrawal policy and that Miss C wasnt a regular 
customer at the branch. So, because other branches exercised a form of discretion as they 
had previously identified Miss C, it doesnt mean it was unreasonable for Miss C to be asked 
security questions at branches where staff didnt know her. 
As Miss C says she didnt have to go through an identification process at other branches I 
can understand why she feels she was being treated differently here. However, considering 
Nationwide have a procedure in place and a duty of care to protect customers money, Im 
satisfied that the security questions were necessary because Miss C wasnt known to the 
staff rather than for discriminatory reasons. 
So, as the staff didnt exercise discretion and instead were diligent adhering to an important 
customer security process, I think it likely that Miss C challenged the Nationwide staff and, 
when they defended their position and she expressed dissatisfaction her manner, tone and 
pitch was perceived as being intimidating. And this led to Nationwides staff member feeling 
upset and logging a report.
I also checked Nationwides confidential incident management procedure and Im satisfied 
the unacceptable behaviour and alert action they took was within their guidance.
Finally, I looked at Miss Cs concern that the Nationwide complaints handler had told a lie 
when they said theyd spoken to the branch manager. Having looked at the file notes, I 
agree with the investigator, that its more likely than not that the Nationwide staff member 
who Miss C spoke to, who said this hadnt happened, was either unaware of the contact or 
confused by the question.
So, considering all the above, I think it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to ask Miss C 
security questions and write to her about her behaviour. Also, I cant see Nationwide have 
acted in a discriminatory way, attempted to cover anything up or treated Miss C unfairly 
here.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman