DRN-3157695
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. 
Mr T experienced issues with the car, which included; 
Misfiring 
Steering vibrating
Undisclosed previous repairs
Noisy engine and brakes
Oil and water mixed in the cooling system
Engine management and oil pressure lights illuminated
In August 2020 the car went into limp mode. Mr T had the car recovered to a local garage 
who identified a misfire fault and cleared it. Following this, Mr T took the car to the garage 
again because the brakes were juddering. The garage identified warped brake discs.
In October 2020 the car went into limp mode again. Mr T took the car to the garage who 
diagnosed engine failure.
Mr T complained to Moneybarn. It arranged for an independent inspection. This found that 
there had been oil contamination and catastrophic failure of the engine. The engineer said 
that because of the time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply, the fault would not 
have been present at the point of supply.
Moneybarn said it wouldnt accept a rejection of the car. Mr T wasnt happy with the 
response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. he said that despite the engineers report, he didnt 
think it was reasonable to experience so many faults within such a short time of the point of 
supply.
Moneybarn didnt response to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car to 
require more repairs than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I would 
need to be satisfied that the car had a fault at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault 
which occurred due to wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the 
consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help to decide whether a car was of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. Ive looked at the engineers report in this case. He found that 
although the coolant level was correct, there was evidence of oil contamination throughout 
the engine and the diagnostics identified five fault codes relating to the cylinder pressure and 
crank/cam position. The engineers opinion was that the car had suffered from engine 
overspeed which and caused catastrophic engine damage. He said he didnt think the fault 
would have been present at the point of supply due to the time and mileage elapsed.
When the car was supplied it had covered around 78,000 miles. I can see from the 
engineers report that the oil pressure switch malfunctioned at around 81,000 miles in 
October 2020. This is consistent with Mr T reporting that the car went into limp mode in 
October 2020. So, at the time of engine failure, Mr T had had the car for around 3 months 
and had covered around 3000 miles.
Ive also taken into account that the car previously went into limp mode in August 2020. The 
garage who looked at the car at this time identified a misfire fault. 
Although the engineers report says that the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of 
supply, Ive got concerns that the car went into limp mode and had a misfire fault so soon 
into the agreement. Further, I dont think that 3 months/3000 miles is very long in terms of 
time and mileage before a major failure occurred. On balance, I dont think the engineers 
report is enough to rebut the presumption that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Ive also thought about the issues with the brakes. The issues occurred around a month into 
the agreement. The garage identified warped brakes and excessive wear. Although, as Ive 
said, Id expect some wear and tear in a second hand car, I think this level of damage to the 
brakes is more than a reasonable person would expect so early on into the agreement. I 
think its more likely than not that the brakes were in an unsatisfactory condition at the point 
of supply.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Putting things right
Mr T has paid for repairs to the car. if he hadnt done so, I would expect Moneybarn to 
arrange for repairs and bring the car back up to a satisfactory condition. In the 
circumstances, Moneybarn should refund the cost of repairs.Following the engine failure, Mr T wasnt able to drive the car for several months until he 
could afford the repairs. I dont think its fair to expect him to make payments under the 
agreement when he was unable to use the car. Moneybarn should refund these payments.
Further, Mr Ts use of the car was impaired because of the issues with the brakes. 
Moneybarn should refund 10% of payments made by Mr T for the period when he brakes 
werent functioning as they should have done. 
The faults with the car have impacted on Mr T. Hes had to return the car to the garage more 
than once and has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result. Moneybarn should 
compensate Mr T for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited should:
Refund the cost of repairs in the sum of £4640
Refund all payments made by Mr T from 7 October 2020 to 12 March 2021
Refund 10% of payments made by Mr T from 27 August 2020 to  & October 2020
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £150 compensation (in addition to any compensation already paid) to Mr T for distress 
and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file relating to the agreement  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman