DRN-4068916
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited delayed the transfer of his pension to 
another provider and he suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr S had three pension policies with Aviva. He applied to transfer all three policies to a new 
provider on 27 November 2020. He says the first two policies were transferred relatively 
quickly with the funds being received by the new provider on 30 November 2020 and 2 
December 2020 respectively. However, he says the third policy was not transferred until 22 
December 2020.
Mr S complained to Aviva.
Aviva looked into his complaint. It said it had to raise a query because the name on the third 
policy didnt match the name on the Origo Transfer Service (OTS) request. OTS is described 
as an electronic pipework that lets connected businesses swiftly and easily transfer 
customer funds from one platform to another. The receiving scheme had clarified the name 
on 8 December and the funds were transferred after that. Aviva said it had added £24 by 
way of interest to the payment that had been made. It said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt accept this and Aviva looked into his complaint again.
Aviva subsequently issued a further final response letter. It said it had reviewed the requests 
for all three policies and all had quoted the same name. As two of the policies had been paid 
without delay, Aviva said it shouldve been aware of the other policies and treated them all 
the same and not caused a delay with the third policy. It said the third policy should have 
been transferred on 1 December and not 19 December. Aviva said it would carry out an 
assessment to see if Mr S had incurred a financial loss as a result of the delay.
Aviva also said it would arrange for a cheque for £200 to be sent to Mr S by way of apology 
for the inconvenience caused.
Mr S says he heard nothing further. He submitted an assessment of loss to Aviva. He said 
he wanted compensation for the loss in growth caused by the delay. He also said he wanted 
compensated for potential IHT (Inheritance Tax) he might incur. He thought Aviva should 
pay him an additional £200 for the inconvenience hed experienced.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. She asked Aviva to provide its assessment of 
financial loss. It said that the receiving scheme had not provided it with details of the 
investments Mr S had made after he transferred his pension. 
Our investigator thought that Aviva hadnt done enough to complete its loss calculation. She 
said it should now complete the loss calculation with the aim of putting Mr S back into the 
position he wouldve been in had the transfer completed on 1 December 2020. She also 
thought Aviva should pay Mr S an additional £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr S thought that the compensation should be calculated on the basis of the calculations he 
had provided. He also said that an additional £200 for distress and inconvenience would be 
more acceptable to him.
Aviva said it would agree to pay an additional £200 (£400 in total) by way of compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. But, it said that after reviewing the matter again, it did not 
accept it had done anything wrong when it had requested clarification about the name on 
Mr Ss policy. It said it had still paid the funds into the receiving schemes bank account 
within its normal ten day service standard. It said it wouldnt pay any further compensation 
because it didnt think Mr S had incurred any financial loss.
Our investigator considered what Aviva had said. She changed her view as a result. She 
thought Aviva had shown it had a valid reason to request clarification about the name on the 
OTS request. The fact it hadnt done that for the other two policies didnt mean it had acted 
incorrectly regarding the third policy. Aviva had completed the transfer within a reasonable 
timescale.
Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S asked Aviva to transfer three pension policies. As hes pointed out, all three policies 
had the same details  name, address, national insurance number. And the requests for the 
policies to be transferred were all submitted at the same time. So, I can understand why he 
thinks Aviva shouldve treated all three policies in the same way and made the transfers 
within the same timeframes.
Avivas explanation for why it treated one of the policies differently is that it noticed Mr Ss 
name on the OTS application didnt exactly match the name it held on its records. And, 
although the same issue applied to the other two policies, it says that doesnt mean it acted 
wrongly when it sought clarification about the name on the third policy. 
When it wrote to Mr S in May 2022 Aviva said it shouldve been aware of the other two 
policies, treated them all the same and not caused a delay with the third policy. Aviva has 
subsequently changed its position regarding this. It now says it would always have taken 
longer to process this transfer request because of the queries about Mr Ss name. It says it 
requested the information from the receiving scheme on 1 December 2020 and received a 
response on 8 December 2020. After receipt of the information it transferred the funds within 
its normal ten day service standard. 
So, Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said. Having done so, although I 
know this will disappoint Mr S, Im not persuaded, on balance, that Aviva has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably when completing the pension transfer. Ill explain why.
The request for confirmation of Mr Ss name
It is important when transferring a pension that checks are carried out to ensure that the 
funds are being transferred both to and from the correct account. 
When Aviva received the OTS application, it identified that the name on the application 
differed from the name it held on its records. I can see that Mr Ss first name on the application was recorded differently to the first name which Aviva held for him on its 
systems. Thats why Aviva sought clarification.
The fact that this check does not appear to have been carried out on Mr Ss two other 
policies does not mean that Aviva acted incorrectly when it requested additional information 
about the third policy. That remains the case  despite the fact that the other two policies 
were correctly transferred without the additional check having been completed.
So, although I can understand why Mr S has complained about the delay that occurred as a 
result of this check being made, Im satisfied that Aviva did act fairly and reasonably when it 
requested confirmation that the name on the application was the same as the name on its 
records. It requested this information on 1 December 2020 and received a response on 8 
December 2020.
The time taken to process the transfer
When considering whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably we take into account 
the law, codes and good practice. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) published a 
statement of good practice relating to pension transfers in 2006. It said that requests relating 
to transfers of pensions should be completed within ten working days. That doesnt mean it 
will always take ten days to complete a transfer  some transfers will be completed quicker 
than that and some will take longer. It will depend on the particular circumstances of each 
case.
Ive looked at the timeline of events that applied here. Aviva received the application on 27 
November 2020. It identified that the name on the application differed from the name it held 
on its records. It sought clarification from the receiving scheme on 2 December 2020 and 
received a response on 8 December 2020.
Mr S has pointed out that even after it received the information it sought, Aviva took longer to 
make the transfer than had been the case with his other two policies. However, having 
looked at the timeline, Im satisfied, on balance that after Aviva received the confirmation it 
had requested, it progressed the transfer, and made the payment to the receiving scheme, in 
line with its usual service standards. To ensure that the payment was made within the ten 
day period, Aviva says it transferred the funds using telegraphic transfer rather than BACs. I 
think that was fair and reasonable.
Although overall the process, from application date to payment date, took longer than ten 
working days to complete, Im satisfied, on balance, Aviva completed the transfer within a 
timescale which was fair and reasonable. When reaching that view Ive taken into account 
the time taken by the receiving scheme to respond to the request for information. And Ive 
also noted that Aviva paid credit interest on the amount it transferred because of the 
additional time taken to complete the transfer process.
The amount transferred
Mr S says Aviva should not have disinvested the pension until the date it was ready to make 
the transfer. Instead, he says Aviva disinvested the pension as soon as it received the OTS 
request and hes experienced financial loss as a result. 
Id just comment that its not unusual, when a transfer application is received through OTS, 
for the transferor pension provider to disinvest the funds as soon as it receives the request. 
Thats also in line with what the customer might reasonably have expected when the transfer 
request was made. 
We asked Aviva for its further comments about the date it disinvested the pension in this 
case. It told us that the information it required here was a confirmation only of Mr Ss name. It believed that the query could be answered without the need for anything further other than 
a quick response from the receiving scheme. It says thats why it went ahead and 
disinvested the pension whilst at the same time requesting the confirmation it required. 
Having thought about what Aviva has said, Im persuaded it was fair and reasonable to 
progress the OTS request in the way that happened here. The query about Mr Ss name was 
raised by Aviva at the start of the process - which meant that the transfer could progress in 
the usual way as soon as the confirmation had been received. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to say that Aviva should be liable for the time taken to get a response to the 
query it raised.
So, Im satisfied, on balance, Aviva didnt do anything wrong when it went ahead and 
disinvested the pension when it did. That means, Im also satisfied that the correct amount 
was transferred to the new provider.
Distress and Inconvenience
Aviva has acknowledged that Mr S experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of 
what happened and it has now offered to pay him £400 (in total) by way of compensation. 
Because Ive decided that Aviva didnt unreasonably delay the transfer here, I cant require it 
to pay this amount to Mr S. But if it has not done so already, I would hope that it honours the 
offer it has made to pay Mr S £400 (in total).
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman