DRN-3520017
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that eToro (Europe) Limited didnt communicate clearly about their 
overnight fees for foreign exchange positions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
here. In summary, Mr P held a trading account with eToro (Europe) Limited from February 
2018 to August 2021 when it was moved to eToro (UK) Limited. In June 2021 he complained 
that eToros terms and conditions and their website werent clear about when overnight fees 
would be charged. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mr P, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In June 2021, eToros terms and conditions said overnight fees would be charged or 
credited each time you keep a position open after trading hours. This is the crux of 
Mr Ps complaint  the eToro website set out trading hours for currency pairs and this 
showed no break in trading hours between Sunday evening and Friday evening each 
week. So Mr Ps view is that the terms and conditions dont allow for overnight fees to 
be charged on other days of the week. 
However, the terms and conditions also said in relation to fees: please readour 
website, gave a link, and said charges and fees might be updated from time to time. 
So the terms and conditions clearly anticipate them being read in conjunction with the 
information about fees displayed on the website.
Ive looked at what the eToro website said about overnight fees in June 2021. Under 
the heading When do I pay overnight fees?, it said Overnight fees are charged 
every night between Monday and Friday at 17:00 EST for open CFD positions. 
The website also showed a screenshot of what a customer would see when making a 
trade  and this sets out the overnight fee at the bottom  giving the daily and the 
weekend fee separately. 
It seems there was an element of contradiction between eToros terms and 
conditions, which effectively said that overnight fees would only be charged at 
weekends (because of the trading hours for currencies), and their website which said 
theyd be charged every night.
So its fair to say eToros information in relation to overnight fees wasnt entirely 
clear.
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mr P  and what hed have done 
differently if the information had been clearer. But each time he placed a trade, the 
screen showed what the fees would be. And a casual understanding of the word 
overnight would be that the fee would be charged each night. So I think its unlikely 
Mr P would have traded differently if the wording in the terms and conditions had 
been clearer.
It follows that I dont think Mr P has suffered any financial loss. And I dont think 
eToro need to compensate him for any distress or inconvenience  this is a small 
contradiction deep in the terms and conditions which I wouldnt expect to have had a 
significant impact on Mr P. 
In summary, although I agree with Mr P that the terms and conditions in relation to fees are 
not as clear as they might be, I cant say this has had any significant impact on him.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about eToro (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman