DRN-3620352
The complaint
Mr T complains that some advice given to him by Portal Financial Services LLP about the 
transfer and investment of his pension savings was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2013 Mr T was introduced to Portal by a financial advisor. Portal provided Mr T with 
advice about the pension savings that he held in a personal pension plan. At that time Mr T 
was aged 36, single, and self-employed.
Portal recommended that Mr T should transfer his pension savings to a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). And it then advised him on how those transferred pension 
savings should be invested. Portal advised Mr T to spread his pension investments across a 
range of funds, however its recommendation was for around 60% of the monies to be 
invested in unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
I have previously considered an objection from Portal that Mr T had made his complaint too 
late. However I concluded that this was a complaint we could deal with. So Portal provided 
our investigator with its reasons why it thought the advice it had provided had been suitable 
for Mr Ts circumstances.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by our investigator. He didnt think the investments that 
Portal had recommended had been suitable for Mr T. And our investigator wasnt persuaded 
that it had been necessary for Mr T to transfer his pension savings at all. So our investigator 
asked Portal to put things right for Mr T.
Portal didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The information that Portal gathered from Mr T suggested that he was someway off wanting 
to access his pension benefits  at that time he was only aged 36. So whilst he had a long 
term over which to invest his pension benefits, I dont think he was in any reasonable 
position to provide any firm intentions about how he might want to take his pension benefits 
when he retired. So I think my focus, when considering the suitability of the advice Portal 
provided, should be on the investment and growth phase of Mr Ts pension savings, rather 
than any considerations for his future retirement.
The pension savings on which Portal was providing its advice were, apart from a future state 
pension entitlement, Mr Ts only specific provision for his retirement. He was making monthly 
contributions to his pension savings, and Portal recommended that these should continue. 
I have noted that Mr T did also hold some buy to let properties. So it is possible that, as he 
approached his retirement he might have sold those assets to provide capital, or continued 
to benefit from any income they produced. But that income was far from guaranteed. So 
I think Portal should have taken care to ensure that its advice reflected the fact that Mr Ts 
pension savings were a crucial part of his financial provision for his future.
Portal assessed Mr T as having a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. In its suitability 
report it described an investor with that attitude to risk as someone who would have 
moderate to high levels of financial knowledge, and usually be experienced investors who 
have used a range of investment products in the past. It said they are investors who are 
willing to take risk with a substantial proportion of their available assets.
But those characteristics appear to be contradicted by some of the answers that Mr T gave 
to a Risk Attitude Profiling Questionnaire that Portal asked him to complete. For example 
Mr T said he didnt feel comfortable about investing in the stockmarket. He said that he had 
little experience in investing in stocks and shares and that he was concerned by the volatility 
of stockmarket investments. And he said that he had no strong opinion on matters such as;
- looking for safer investments even if it means lower returns
- finding investment matters easy to understand
- taking substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns
- preferring alternative investments that are considered to be less volatile even if it 
reduces liquidity.
The only investment area that Mr T showed any strong confidence in was investing in 
property. And given what Ive said about the buy to let portfolio that he held, that is 
unsurprising.So I cannot agree with Portal that it fairly categorised Mr Ts attitude to risk based on the 
answers it recorded to the risk questionnaire. I dont criticise Portal for its use of a 
questionnaire  that is a fairly common approach across the industry. But Portal should have 
been considering Mr Ts responses in the overall context of its relationship with him. He was 
clearly uncomfortable and inexperienced in many aspects of investing. And his questionnaire 
answers did not match what I would expect to see from an adventurous investor.
Portal also considered Mr Ts capacity for loss on his pension savings. Ive explained earlier 
a little about why I consider those pension savings to be a vital part of Mr Ts provision for 
his retirement. Portal stated that it believed Mr T had a suitable capacity of loss for the 
recommendation it had made. But it provided little, if any, analysis to support that conclusion. 
And I think it of concern that Mr Ts capacity for loss appears to have been measured 
against the recommendation that Portal made, rather than the other way around. I think it 
would have been far more appropriate for Portal to have assessed Mr Ts capacity for loss, 
and then formulated its investment advice to meet that assessment.
As part of its investment recommendations Portal advised Mr T to place around 60% of his 
pension savings into illiquid UCIS investments. Those investments were split over five 
separate funds. In 2010 the regulator considered investments of this nature. In summary its 
conclusions were that these funds should only be considered suitable for a small group of 
individuals  for example high net worth, or sophisticated investors. And even so, the 
regulator thought that investments of this nature should only comprise around 3% to 5% of a 
diversified portfolio.
I dont think, based on what I have said above, that UCIS investments should have been 
considered suitable for Mr T. And the amount of his portfolio that Mr T was advised to place 
in UCIS funds was significantly in excess of the regulators guidance.
Portal described the funds as being secured bonds. It did explain that they were fixed term 
investments and that they were illiquid. But it said that the assets were secured against land 
or property. I think that gave the impression to Mr T, who had already expressed his comfort 
with property investments, that they were quite safe. Portal explained that the investments 
provided attractive interest rates in return that would be accumulated during the first 
2-3 years. But Portal failed to adequately explain the unregulated nature of these 
investments. And the potential for the entire investment to be lost should the fund default.
So on balance I dont think Portal did enough to explain the nature of these funds to Mr T. It 
should have made it clearer that they were unregulated and so didnt benefit from any 
protection through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. And for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think they were suitable for Mr Ts attitude to risk, or his capacity for loss.
But what Ive said above doesnt necessarily mean that Portal was incorrect to advise Mr T 
to transfer his pension savings to the SIPP. So Ive now gone on to consider that advice 
more generally, and whether the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests.
Portal noted on its fact find that Mr T was looking to improve the performance of his pension 
investments. And it noted that Mr T was keen to explore other investments apart from 
property, and that he had some interest in the Asian markets. I do however note that Mr T 
appeared to have already had some of his pension savings invested in that market.
Mr T already held his pension savings in a personal pension plan provided by a mainstream 
provider that offered a range of investment opportunities. I havent seen anything that makes 
me think Mr T needed to utilise the extensive range of investment funds that might have 
been offered by a SIPP. It is true that the headline cost of the SIPP was lower than that of 
his existing pension plan. But Portals analysis failed to adequately consider the costs of the new individual funds, or that Mr T would be paying an ongoing charge for its advice and 
management of the transferred funds. And of course Mr T also needed to pay 5% of his 
pension savings to Portal for its advice. That would form a significant drag on his investment 
returns for an extended period of time.
So in summary, for the reasons given above, I dont think it was suitable to recommend that 
Mr T transfer his pension savings from his personal pension to the new SIPP. It doesnt 
seem to me that the existing scheme would have been unable to reasonably meet his 
investment objectives. I dont think the investments that Portal recommended were suitable 
for Mr Ts circumstances. And I dont think Portal gave sufficient consideration to the fact that 
it might have been in Mr Ts best interests to leave his pension savings where they were. But 
for Portals unsuitable recommendation, I think its more likely than not that Mr T would have 
remained in his previous personal pension.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr T would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr T would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr T £300 for the distress and inconvenience he would have experienced when 
he became aware that some of his recommended investments had run into trouble 
and his retirement income had potentially been compromised as a result.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists but 
some illiquid 
assetsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
IncomeDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement
Total (if not settled
Return within 28 
days of the
business
receiving the
complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where some 
assets are illiquid (meaning they could not be readily sold on the open market) as is likely to 
be the case here. Portal should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mr T provides an undertaking to pay 
Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr T's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Novia SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
 
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr T's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr T can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr T an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the
Why is the above benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth whilst accepting some limited risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman