The complaint  
Mr and Mrs M complain about the action that Barclays Bank UK PLC has taken over arrears  
on their mortgage.  
What happened  
Mr M said that hed had cashflow issues in his business. He said arrears built up on his  
mortgage, and his wife had felt bullied by Barclays into cashing in her pension early to pay  
these off. He told us about the health problems that shed survived. He said she would have  
preferred to keep that information private.  
Mr M said hed spoken to a charity that supports small businesses with debt. He said that it  
suggested two proposals. The first was rejected by Barclays. Mr M said that Barclays and its  
solicitors didnt reply when he sent the second proposal, but it went ahead with a hearing,  
and obtained a sus pended possession order over his home.  
Mr M said Barclays had admitted mistakes, and offered £125 in compensation. But it had  
added about £500 in solicitors fees and £400 in hearing costs to his mortgage. And hed 
had to use over £3,000 to clear arrears and avoid court. Mr M said that Barclays solicitors 
had continued to harass him and Mrs M.  
Mr M said that because hed settled the arrears, he wanted us to help prevent further  
intimidation from Barclays and its solicitors. He wanted Barclays to accept that he was true  
to his word in paying what he owed. Mr M wanted the solicitors and court fees to be  
reimbursed, and he wanted Barclays to make a contribution to the pension funds his wife  
had used, because shed felt bullied. He suggested Barclays should pay back 75% of that  
money.  
Barclays said it had refused Mr Ms first proposal, because there was no demonstration that  
what he proposed would be sustainable. It refused the second proposal, because it looked  
as if Mr and Mrs Ms disposable income was less than £100. Barclays said it had asked its  
solicitors to tell Mr M that the second proposal had been refused, but it understood this  
hadnt been done, and it was sorry about that.  
Barclays also said it was sorry about the service Mr M received whe n he spoke to an advisor  
about the mortgage. It felt that this advisor hadnt behaved in the professional and efficient  
manner it would expect.  
Barclays offered Mr M £125 for the service failings hed experienced. Mr M wanted our  
service to look at this i nstead.  
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr and Mrs Ms  
mortgage had been in arrears, and the mortgage current account had been overdrawn since  
DRN-28143662015. Barclays notes showed that Mr M had been asked numerous times  to complete an 
income and expenditure form, but hadnt done so until September 2019.  
 
Mr and Mrs M had made two recent proposals to clear the arrears, both of these were turned  
down. But Mr and Mrs M cleared the arrears, by cashing in a pension of Mrs Ms . Barclays  
decided to go ahead with the possession order, as the mortgage current account was still  
overdrawn.  
 
Although our investigator noted that Mr M said hed kept Barclays informed and presented  
them with repayment proposals, our investigator said that those were all on Mr Ms own  
terms. He needed to work together with Barclays, including by filling in the income and  
expenditure form. Our investigator felt that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been subject to the  
calls and letters that t hey regarded as harassment, if they had worked with Barclays.  
 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays did anything wrong in getting a suspended possession  
order given the time it had taken to reach this point. Barclays has the right to protect its  
security . So he didnt think Barclays should refund the court and solicitors fees.  
 
Our investigator didnt think it was Barclays responsibility if Mr and Mrs M had chosen to  
cash in a pension to pay off the arrears on their mortgage. And he didnt think the  
communications from Barclays solicitors were intimidating. He said they were factual, and  
lenders have to tell customers about things that could happen on their accounts, even if this  
can be worrying to hear.  
 
Our investigator said that Barclays had offered £125 for not telling Mr M that it wasnt  
accepting his second repayment proposal, and for the unprofessional behaviour of the call  
handler. He said he couldnt recommend that Barclays do any more.  
 
Mr M didnt agree. He said that before the difficult perio d, he was seven or eight months  
ahead on the mortgage. Mr M said that arrears had accrued, but hed repeatedly assured  
Barclays that he would turn matters around. He said he had done that, and the mortgage  
was then up to date.  
 
Mr M said that hed worked w ith Barclays on the second proposal, and had expected it to be  
accepted.  
 
Mr M said that his wife hadnt cashed in her pension to pay the mortgage. That had been  
done 18 months previously, to buy some breathing space as projects came to fruition. He  
said that his wife had felt intimidated and pressured in order to buy the couple time in the  
early parts of the cash flow problems.  
 
Mr M said he knew about the possession hearing, but was told he didnt need to go, because  
the arrears were cleared. Mr M s aid that there was no need for the hearing, but a 12 -month  
suspension was still imposed. He didnt think Barclays should add solicitors fees and  
hearing costs to the mortgage.  
 
Mr M said he hadnt accepted the £125 in compensation that Barclays offered, b ecause then  
he wouldnt have been able to take his case further.  
 
Mr M said his business had been affected by Brexit, but he wanted to stress that the arrears  
were cleared by paid invoices and hard work on the orders he had assured the bank was  
there, not a cashed in pension.  
 
Mr M disputed that he wasnt prepared to complete income and expenditure details. He said  
hed been offering Barclays solutions that would work for a self -employed person. He said  his income wasnt steady, like an employees income, b ut he thought that Barclays didnt  
understand or accept how that worked. Mr M wanted Barclays to work with him, and accept  
that he was true to his word when he said the arrears would be cleared.  
 
And Mr M said his wife hadnt wanted to reveal her medical h istory to Barclays. She wanted  
to retain her dignity but felt pressure to reveal her situation. They wanted Barclays to take  
that into consideration.  
 
Mr M said he wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to  
me for a final d ecision.  
 
My provisional decision  
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to  
uphold it. This is what I said then:  
 
I think that there may have been some misunderstandings on some of the facts in  
this case, so Ill set out the position as I understand it, as well as my views.  
 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account has experienced arrears since 2015. Mr M is self - 
employed, and during these difficulties he has repeatedly said that he expects  
business to pick u p, and given details of future contracts he expects in the near  
future.  
 
Mr M says the income and expenditure information that Barclays asked for just didnt  
work for him, because his income isnt a smooth regular flow. I understand that Mr  
Ms income woul d be periodic, and not necessarily regular. But I dont think that  
Barclays has ignored this. It has taken account of what he said about future  
contracts, and repeatedly given him time for those to be secured. And I can see  
Barclays has offered to accept i nformation on contracts or invoices that Mr M had  
coming up. I dont think that Barclays requests were unsuitable, or failed to take  
account of Mr Ms position as a self -employed person.  
 
Mr M said his wife felt pressured into telling Barclays about her h ealth. But I can see  
that Mr M first mentioned his wifes health in February 2016, when he was ringing to  
pay arrears. I can see from the notes Barclays made that at that time, Mr M had been  
in the later stages of selling a second property, which he told B arclays had £40,000  
of equity. So its not clear to me that Mrs M would have felt pressured into revealing  
issues about her health at that time.  
 
Mr M said that his wife hadnt cashed in her pension to clear the recent arrears. That  
had been done to provide a little more cashflow some 18 months ago. Barclays  
notes suggest this was done in late 2017.  
 
When Mr M brought his complaint to our service, he said we have settled the  
arrears  I want .. a contribution of the pension funds we used to be reim bursed say  
75%.  I think that is why our investigator thought that Mrs Ms pension was used to  
clear recent arrears, although Mr M has been clear now that the pension was not  
used for this purpose.  
 
Mr M says he felt Barclays and its solicitors had bullied  him and his wife. I do  
understand that its frightening to receive letters which warn about possible  
repossession of your home. And Mr and Mrs M got letters about a repossession in  
2017, then again in 2019. But I also think that Barclays and its solicitor s do have to  
tell Mr and Mrs M about whats happening with their debt. When things arent going  well, Barclays has to let them know. And that includes when theres a real risk that  
Barclays will seek to repossess their home. I dont think that letters and contact about  
this were bullying Mr and Mrs M.  
 
Mr M said that there had been a hearing in March 2020, and I can see that our  
investigator thought that a suspended possession order had been granted. Ive asked  
for more information from Barclays, and I can confirm that no possession order was  
made.  
 
Barclays didnt ask the court to make this order. Mr and Mrs M paid the arrears that  
Barclays was seeking to recover, not long before the hearing date. The hearing was  
adjourned, so Barclays could go back to cour t if it wanted to in the twelve months  
following that date. Thats what the twelve -month suspension means. Theres no  
possession order on Mr and Mrs Ms house.  
 
Mr M said that he just wanted Barclays to accept that he was good to his word, and  
that he would clear the arrears. Id like to stress that I dont doubt Mr Ms intentions  
are to do just that. But Barclays has to take into account that it does look as if Mr Ms  
business has been having difficulties since long before the Brexit vote. And although  
Mr M has assured us that the business is now generating income which allowed him  
to clear the arrears, I dont think Barclays can currently be sure that Mr M has paid off  
the recent arrears with profits from a revitalised business, rather than the large P PI 
award that he showed Barclays hed received in early 2020.  
 
Ive considered this complaint carefully. When Mr M complained to us, he wanted  
Barclays to remove the legal and hearing costs from his mortgage. Hes told us how  
much those were. I dont think  the costs Mr M has described are unreasonable. And I  
dont think that Barclays was wrong to request a hearing in this case, particularly as  
Mr M hadnt been able to reach an agreement with Barclays, and he doesnt appear  
to have demonstrated to it before the hearing date that there had been an  
improvement in his business. So I dont think Barclays has to take the costs Mr M  
mentioned off Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage.  
 
Mr M also said that he wanted a contribution to the pension that he and Mrs M had to  
cash in, but hes now confirmed that he didnt use pension money to clear his  
arrears. He says those were cleared through profits from the business. So I dont  
think Barclays has to contribute towards replacing any pension funds that Mr and Mrs  
M have released.  
 
I do think that Barclays shouldve told Mr M that the second of his proposals for  
clearing arrears, made before its hearing, wasnt accepted. I think Barclays let him  
down by not telling him that expressly, although I think this would have been clear to  
Mr M at the time, because Barclays was going ahead with the hearing for a  
possession order.  
 
Im glad to see that Barclays has offered Mr and Mrs M some compensation for this. I  
think that a payment of £125 does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to thi s part  
of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. So Ill require Barclays to make that payment now, if it  
hasnt done so already.  
 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think the rest of his complaint  
should be upheld.  
 
Mr and Mrs M have said that their bu siness has improved. They havent suggested to  
us that they are in financial difficulties at the moment, and I understand that when we  last spoke to them this mortgage was up to date. But trading conditions remain  
volatile for small businesses, so, moving forwards, I would like to remind Barclays  
about the current FCA guidance for taking action to recover mortgage arrears given  
the impact of the global pandemic. I would expect Barclays to continue to treat Mr  
and Mrs M in line with this guidance as it conti nues to evolve over time.  
 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.  
Both sides replied.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair an d 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Barclays agreed with my provisional decision. It said that it could pay the award Id  
suggested into Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage current account if they would like, or it would pay  
the money elsewhere if they would prefer.  
 
Mr M said that he and Mrs M needed to ensure that Barclays would withdraw its aggressive  
actions now that they have the mortgage onto overpayments and the mortgage current  
account in operating tolerance with further signifi cant payments to reduce the overdraft.  
They said that they could then feel under less stress and pressure.  
 
What I said in my provisional decision was that I didnt think that Barclays had bullied Mr and  
Mrs M. I understood that some of the correspondence that they received from Barclays could  
be frightening, but I thought that was a reflection of the seriousness of the situation rather  
than aggressiveness by Barclays. I said that when there is, for example, a risk of  
repossession, Barclays does have to let  its customers know.  
 
So I dont think Barclays would have to withdraw any aggressive stance now, because I  
dont think that Barclays was being aggressive before now. However, I do think its very likely  
that Mr and Mrs M will notice a difference in Barcla ys approach to their mortgage and their  
mortgage current account, if theyve now been able to put these both on a different footing. I  
hope they will feel under less stress and pressure as a result.  
 
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.  
 
My fina l decision  
 
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs M the sum of £125  
which it previously offered.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to  
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.  
 
Esther Absalom -Gough  
Ombudsman  