DRN-3261102
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has agreed to do to 
put things right after he complained that it failed to apply the regulators temporary guidance, 
brought in as a result of the pandemic, on his overdrafts.
Background
NatWest agreed to retrospectively apply the regulators temporary guidance to Mr Hs 
accounts and refund any extra interest it charged. It also proposed to remove Mr Hs 
overdrafts once this had been done.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and she thought that what NatWest had 
agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
case. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
NatWest has agreed that it should have applied the temporary guidance on Mr Hs accounts 
when he asked for it, rather than direct him to make a separate application for this. And it 
has agreed to refund any and all of the extra interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Hs 
overdrafts from then in order to put things right. 
In this case, Mr H has been left with an outstanding balance even though hes been 
refunded all of the extra interest, fees and charges applied. So NatWest has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here and Im satisfied that this represents a fair and reasonable 
solution for the additional interest added.
In addition to this NatWest has proposed removing Mr Hs overdrafts, once cleared, in order 
to prevent him incurring further charges that hes said hes unable to pay. I understand this is 
what Mr H is unhappy with. But, as a regulated lender, NatWest needs to make sure it 
doesnt lend, or continue lending, irresponsibly. And amongst other things, NatWest needs to 
continue doing enough to understand whether Mr H can continue to afford to repay any 
credit it provides to him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Each lender will have its own criteria for assessing whether they should continue offering a 
credit facility. In this case, I dont know what other checks NatWest may or may not have 
undertaken. But most crucially Mr H has complained that he cant pay the charges for his 
overdrafts and therefore that he cant afford to maintain his facilities. I dont think it is unfair 
for NatWest to have taken this into account (indeed its arguably unfair for it not to consider 
this going forward) or put measures in place to ensure Mr H doesnt accrue charges he cant 
afford to pay. 
As this is the case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that NatWest 
should continue to provide overdrafts to Mr H in circumstances where, bearing in mind what 
Mr H has said, it has concluded he cant afford them. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr H  reworking his accounts so that any and all the extra interest, fees and 
charges which shouldnt have been added are removed  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, 
its up to Mr H to decide whether he wishes to accept NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman