DRN-3772601
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected her 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
her purchase of some solar panels.
Miss A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Miss A bought solar panels for her home in January 2019. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from OCRF, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of 
the installer, Saint Solar Ltd. Miss A says Saint Solar misled her into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
OCRF did not agree that any misrepresentations had been made, and so Miss A brought 
this complaint to our service. After that, OCRF re-investigated the claim and this time it 
accepted that the panels were not generating as much energy as had been estimated at the 
point of sale. It calculated that this would result in a shortfall of £524.50 over the term of the 
loan, and it offered to reduce the loan balance by that amount. But it maintained that there 
had been no misrepresentation.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator accepted that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Miss A and upheld the complaint. OCRF did not agree, and so 
the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Misrepresentation
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not think that the panels were 
misrepresented. That is because the sales documents set out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
There is a one-page document titled Saint Solar Estimated Year One Returns. It gives a 
breakdown of the feed-in tariff generation and export income and the savings on Miss As 
electricity bills, and then gives the total, described as Total Estimated Year One Benefit. 
The total given is £368.49. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine 
print. This document was signed by Miss A, and so I am satisfied that the installers 
salesman did bring this information to her attention.
The contract is two pages long and has also been signed by Miss A. It says that the cash 
price is £6,545; this figure is immediately above her signature. The interest on the loan does 
not appear on this document, and so I think that Miss A could be forgiven for overlooking it. 
However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to £654.50 each year. That 
is nearly £300 more than the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this is clear.
The adjudicator thought that this document was inadequate because it did not set out the 
interest on the loan. I think that would have been important if including or omitting the 
interest had made the difference between the panels paying or not paying for themselves. 
But since I have found that the sales documentation made it clear that the panels could not 
possibly pay for their cash price during the loan term, it necessarily follows that they could 
not pay for their cash price plus the loan interest. So I think these documents did do enough 
to compare the cost and benefits of the solar panels.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Miss A about the benefits 
and cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term 
of the loan, so it does not seem likely to me that the salesman told her otherwise.
Underperformance
The panels have only generated about 89% of what was estimated at the point of sale. 
OCRF has calculated that the shortfall came to £52.45 in the first year, which it says comes 
to £524.50 over the ten year loan. It has offered to reduce the loan balance by that amount. 
However, this calculation fails to take inflation into account. I think that OCRF should 
recalculate the shortfall over the ten year term of the loan allowing for inflation to date.
Responses to my provisional findings
OCRF accepted my provisional decision. It added that another document, the validation 
sheet, had shown the full price including interest. The CMC did not reply. So there is no 
reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
Putting things right
I think it would be fair for OCRF to reduce the loan balance by the shortfall over the ten year 
loan term. The shortfall in the first year was £52.45, but the shortfall in later years will be 
greater than that due to inflation. So rather than just multiplying £52.45 by ten to get the 
shortfall over ten years, OCRF must calculate the shortfall for years two to ten taking 
inflation into account. It must then deduct the recalculated total shortfall from the outstanding 
loan balance.
OCRF must also pay Miss A £100 for her inconvenience.1
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to put things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 I mentioned this in the introduction to my provisional decision, which is not included here.