DRN-4437287
Complaint
Mr L has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (Oakbrook Finance) provided 
to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to him.
Background
Oakbrook Finance provided Mr L with a first loan (under its Likely Loans brand) for 
£1,500.00 in March 2021. This loan was due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of 
£154.48. This loan was settled early in June 2021.
In November 2022, Oakbrook Finance provided Mr L with a second loan. This loan was 
under its Finio Loans brand and was for £3,000.00. It had a 24-month term and had monthly 
repayments of £197.58. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr L and Oakbrook Finance had told us. And he 
thought that Oakbrook Finance hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint be upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Oakbrook Finance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Oakbrook Finance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr L could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Oakbrook Finance provided Mr L with loans for £1,500.00 in March 2021 and £3,000.00 in               
November 2022. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 instalments of £154.98, and 24 
instalments of £106.41 respectively. Oakbrook Finance says it agreed to Mr Ls applications 
after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on credit searches it carried out and (in the 
case of loan 1 proof of income) all of this information showed Mr L could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr L has said these loans were 
unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr L and Oakbrook Finance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Oakbrook Finance has provided an indication of what it 
saw about Mr Ls debts at the time of his applications. And Ive cross checked this against 
the copy of a credit report Mr L has provided. Crucially, Mr Ls debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively 
well managed. 
Given the amount being lent for loan 1 as well as the monthly payment and the lack of 
obvious indicators of recent difficulty in the information Oakbrook Finance did obtain, I dont 
think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining anything 
further. So Im satisfied that Oakbrook Finance didnt act unfairly towards Mr L when it 
provided loan 1 to him. 
For the second loan, given the increased monthly repayment I think that Oakbrook Finance 
needed to find out a bit more about Mr Ls regular living costs. Ive seen what Mr L has said 
about monthly repayment being unaffordable when all of the direct debits and expenditure 
on his bank statements is deducted from his income. But I wouldnt have expected this level 
of granularity in any assessment of Mr L living costs - particularly as obtaining bank 
statements wasnt the only way for Oakbrook Finance to have found out more about Mr Ls 
regular living costs. 
Instead, given the circumstances here, I would simply have expected Oakbrook Finance to 
have had an understanding of Mr Ls headline living costs and, in my view, finding out about 
these would not have led Oakbrook Finance to conclude that Mr L wouldnt be able to make 
the repayments to loan 2. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan 1 was settled very early and loan 2 wasnt taken until almost 
a year and a half after loan 1 had been settled. So I dont think that it was obvious that Mr L 
might have been taking loan 2 because of the effect his previous Oakbrook Finance loan 
had left on his finances. 
I accept that Mr Ls actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Oakbrook Finance obtained. For example, Ive 
seen that Mr L was using his overdraft. But the funds for this loan could have been used to 
clear Mr Ls overdraft. Furthermore, if Mr L believes he was in a cycle of using his overdraft 
unsustainably this is a matter he needs to take up with his overdraft provider, rather than 
Oakbrook Finance.
Overall I dont think that Oakbrook Finance did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr L 
- it carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ls indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably, or in circumstances where further checks would have shown the monthly 
payments to be unaffordable. So I dont think that Oakbrook Finance treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman