DRN-4326087
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBI) and their 
refusal to pay for her undamaged tiles in her bathroom to be replaced.
Mrs S has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, and comments made, by either Mrs or Mr 
S as Mrs S throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs S held a home insurance policy, underwritten by LBI. Unfortunately, in the summer of 
2022, Mrs S discovered a leak at her home. She instructed a plumber to attend her property 
and repair the leak, which was found coming from a pipe located within the floor of her 
bathroom.
Unfortunately, during this repair process, some of Mrs S bathroom wall and floor tiles were 
damaged. So, she contacted LBI to make a claim for the restoration of these, alongside 
other damage caused to her property.
Initially, LBI led Mrs S to believe all the tiles in her bathroom would be replaced at no cost to 
her, as the damaged tiles were part of a matching set. But LBI later confirmed they wouldnt 
be covering the costs of this as, under the terms of Mrs S policy, she didnt hold matching 
sets cover. Mrs S was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs S didnt think it was fair for LBI to confirm all the tiles would be replaced, including those 
tiles undamaged, before changing their mind. She didnt think it was fair for LBI to replace 
the damaged tiles only, as it had been confirmed the same tiles as those remaining in her 
bathroom couldnt be sourced. So, she didnt think it was fair to leave her with a bathroom 
that had different tiles visible on the wall.
LBI responded to Mrs S complaint and upheld it in part. They thought their decision not to 
cover the cost of all the bathroom tiles was a fair one, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy Mrs S held. So, they maintained their position that they would only cover the cost 
of replacing the damaged tiles, with a similar replacement. But they accepted they did mis-
advise Mrs S initially, and they recognised how this failed to manage her expectations and 
so, the upset this would have caused. And they paid Mrs S £350 to recognise this. Mrs S 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied the £350 paid 
by LBI adequately compensated Mrs S for the incorrect advice they provided. But they 
explained our services approach, which states that where there are damaged items that are 
part of a matching set, wed expect insurers to pay something towards the undamaged 
items. So, considering this approach and the number of tiles that were damaged, and where 
they were located in the bathroom, they thought LBI should pay 15% towards the costs of 
replacing the undamaged floor and wall tiles.
LBI didnt agree. They explained the replacement floor tiles, and the costs of these, had 
been considered and covered in full. And they explained why they thought theyd acted in 
line with their terms when refusing to pay towards Mrs S undamaged wall tiles.
Our investigator considered this information and issued a new view, explaining that as the 
floor tiles had been covered, their recommendation was now for LBI to pay 15% towards the 
replacing of all the wall tiles, including those undamaged. Mrs S accepted this 
recommendation, but LBI didnt. LBI again provided several comments explaining why they 
felt they had acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs S held. 
They also explained their belief that Mrs S had the chance to pay an additional premium for 
matching sets cover and chose not to do so. Because of this, they didnt think they should 
pay Mrs S 15% of the costs to replace the wall tiles. As LBI didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before explaining why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mrs S has discussed further complaints she has 
about LBI and the service they provided during the claim. But our service is only able to 
consider the events Mrs S has complained about directly with LBI, where LBI have had a 
chance to respond. So, this decision focuses solely on Mrs S complaint about LBIs decision 
not to cover the full cost of replacing her wall tiles, and the service they provided around this.
I note LBI have accepted they mis-advised Mrs S during the claim process, confirming they 
would replace all the tiles before retracting this offer. And theyve paid Mrs S £350 to 
recognise any upset this caused. As LBI accepted they acted unfairly here, I dont think this 
aspect of the complaint is in dispute. So, I havent considered the merits of this in any further 
detail. Instead, I will focus on the compensatory payment later within this decision, when 
discussing what I think LBI should do to put things right.
What remains in dispute is whether LBI acted fairly when taking the decision not to cover the 
costs required to replace any of the undamaged tiles. LBI think they have acted fairly, as Mrs 
S didnt have matching sets cover which she couldve held, had she taken out a different 
policy at a higher premium.
It's not in dispute that Mrs S didnt hold matching sets cover, as this isnt shown on her policy 
schedule which Ive been provided. So, I can understand why LBI think theyve acted fairly, 
as their actions fall in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs S held. But as well 
as acting within the policy terms, I also must be satisfied LBI were fair to rely on these terms, 
in this individual circumstance. And our service has a set approach to situations such as this 
one.
Our approach sets out that, where a customer has part of a matching set damaged, such as 
wall tiles, and these wall tiles cannot be replaced like for like, then we dont feel its fair for a 
customer to be left without a full matching set as this is what they had before the damage 
occurred. But our approach also doesnt think it would be fair for a business to cover the full 
cost of replacing all the undamaged items, where a customer holds an insurance policy that 
covers the damaged items only.So, in situations such as this, we feel it is fair for a business to pay a percentage of the costs 
to replace all the damaged and undamaged items. So, I dont think I can say LBI have acted 
fairly when refusing to cover the costs Mrs S will incur replacing all the tiles in her bathroom, 
to ensure she has a matching set as she did before the damage occurred. And because of 
this, Im satisfied their decision not to offer anything at all was unreasonable. As I think LBI 
have acted unreasonably here, Ive then turned to what I think LBI should do to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Ive already set out above our services approach in situations such as the one Mrs S found 
herself in. So, had LBI acted fairly, I think they wouldve offered to pay a percentage of the 
costs Mrs S will incur to replace all the damaged and undamaged tiles, to return her 
bathroom to a position where she has a full matching set. So, this is what I think LBI should 
do.
This percentage should be reflective of the extent of the damage, and how many items were 
damaged compared to those that were undamaged. Our investigator recommended that LBI 
pay 15% of the costs Mrs S will incur, which Mrs S herself accepted. And I think this 
recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our approach and what I wouldve 
directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think this offer is reflective of the evidence Ive seen which shows the majority of Mrs S wall 
tiles were undamaged. And, that the tiles that were damaged were located in areas of Mrs S 
bathroom that were fairly discreet and werent immediately visible in comparison to the look 
of the bathroom overall. I think it also takes into account the fact Mrs S didnt hold matching 
sets cover and, that she couldve held this cover had she taken out a more extensive policy, 
at a higher premium. So, I am directing LBI to cover 15% of the total cost Mrs S will incur re-
tiling the walls of her bathroom. Mrs S should provide LBI with an invoice to show the cost of 
this work so this payment can be calculated correctly, and fairly.
Ive also thought about the £350 LBI have already paid Mrs S to recognise their error when 
initially confirming they would cover 100% of these costs. And having done so, I think this 
compensatory payment is a fair one. I think it adequately recognises LBIs failure to 
managed Mrs S expectations, and the obvious confusion and upset she wouldve felt when 
LBI made her aware they didnt intend to cover any of the costs at all. But I think it also takes 
into consideration the fact Mrs S didnt hold matching sets cover and so, I dont think LBI 
were ever obligated to cover the full costs of the bathroom wall retiling. So, I dont think they 
need to offer anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint.
I understand this isnt the outcome both parties were ideally hoping for. And I want to 
reassure LBI I have considered their comments regarding the cover Mrs S held, and her 
ability to purchase a policy with a higher level of cover. But even though this is the case, I 
dont think its fair for Mrs S to be left with a bathroom without a matching set through no fault 
of her own, and so, I think the 15% is a fair compromise that is fair to both parties 
considering the individual circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs S complaint about Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs S the equivalent of 15% of the cost she incurs replacing the damaged and undamaged wall tiles in her bathroom.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman