DRN-4048710
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
relation to a holiday product she purchased, with Mr B, in 2013.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mrs Bs, because it relates to a credit 
card in her sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Bs name, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs B throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) in 
June 2013. The total purchase price, including fees was around $31,000 (equivalent to 
around £20,000 based on average exchange rates for the time). They part funded the 
purchase with Mrs Bs Tesco Bank credit card.
Mr and Mrs B say that when they were on holiday the membership was marketed to them 
and they were told they had a four-day cooling off period. They agreed to the acquisition of 
the membership and paid the deposit (making two payments on Mrs Bs Tesco Bank credit 
card and a payment on Mr Bs credit card provided by another bank). They were transferred 
from their apartment to a villa and provided with additional services. After two days they 
decided they no longer wanted to continue with the purchase of the membership and 
contacted the Supplier. They say they were told that if they wanted to exit the agreement, 
they would need to pay £15,000 for the use of the villa and services. They say they felt they 
had no choice but to continue making payments towards the membership. They say they 
returned home and have never made use of their membership. Mrs B wants a full refund.
Tesco Bank considered Mrs Bs claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). It noted that for a valid claim under Section 75, there needed to be a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. It said that the parties Mrs B paid using her Tesco Bank 
credit card were different to the holiday club membership provider and so there was no valid 
DCS agreement. Because of this it didnt progress Mrs Bs claim.
Mrs B didnt agree with Tesco Bank and said evidence had been provided to show a valid 
DCS agreement was in place.
Following this, Tesco Bank issued its final response saying that Mrs B had said they were 
provided with a four-day cooling off period but evidence of this hadnt been provided. And 
that although Mr and Mrs B hadnt used the holiday club membership, as this was available 
to them it couldnt say this constituted a breach of contract. As it didnt find evidence of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract it didnt uphold Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with Tesco Banks outcome and raised a complaint that was 
referred  through a third-party representative  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator issued a view in February 2022. He noted that Mrs Bs credit card payments 
were to two different companies. He was unable to establish the exact nature of the 
relationship between the two entities Mrs Bs payments were made to and the Supplier and 
didnt think he had seen enough to say that the necessary DCS agreement was in place for 
Mrs B to be able to bring the claim. However, he said that even if he was to assume the 
required DCS agreement existed between the relevant parties, he still wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint, as he didnt think Tesco Banks overall decision to decline the claim 
was unfair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. They reiterated that the DCS 
agreement was in place.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below:
Was the right arrangement in place?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision. And given the facts of this complaint, thats also the case when 
claiming under Section 140A of the CCA.
Tesco Bank said there wasnt the required DCS agreement as the payments Mrs B made 
using her credit card werent to the Supplier. Mrs B made two initial payments using her 
credit card: one on 16 June 2013 and one on 17 June 2013. She then made a number of 
subsequent monthly payments. The payment on 16 June 2013 was to one entity (entity 1) 
and the payment on the 17 June 2013 and the subsequent monthly payments were to 
another entity (entity 2). Neither entity 1 nor entity 2 have the same name as the Supplier.
Having looked at the membership agreement with the Supplier theres a box at the bottom 
that says payment should be made in favour of an entity which appears to be entity 2. This 
suggests that the initial payment and subsequent monthly payments were being made to an 
agency rather than directly to the Supplier. However, Mr and Mrs B have sent us a 
conditional membership certificate that, confusingly, refers to both the Supplier and entity 2, 
and indicates that they jointly admit Mr and Mrs B to membership of the holiday club. The 
certificate is signed (with equal prominence) by both companies. The reason for payment to 
entity 1 is even less clear  and its not clear what its relationship is with the Supplier or 
entity 2. Given the lack of clarity, its possible that the required DCS agreement wasnt in 
place.
However, given the overall outcome Ive reached below, I dont think its necessary to make 
a formal finding on the DCS agreement for the purpose of this decision because I dont think 
the complaint should succeed.
Section 75: Misrepresentation or breach of contract
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 of the CCA, there needs to have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs B said that they were told they had a four-day 
cooling off period but when they contacted the Supplier after two days, they were threatened 
with a bill for £15,000. I can see how upsetting this must have been. However, based on the 
information available I havent seen details of the four-day cooling off period. I also note that 
Mr and Mrs B said that they were told if they exited the agreement, they would need to pay 
for the villa they had been upgraded to. I cannot say that this charge was linked to the 
purchase agreement or that based on this comment they were told they couldnt exit the 
membership agreement. So, while I can understand how upsetting this must have been, I do 
not find I have evidence to say the cooling off period was misrepresented or the approach taken by the Supplier when Mr and Mrs B asked to exit the agreement constituted a breach 
of contract.
Mr and Mrs B have said they havent made use of their membership. Unfortunately, while I 
appreciate this means they have spent money on something they havent used, as I have 
nothing to suggest the membership wasnt available for their use (and it was a choice of 
Mr and Mrs B not to make use of this), I cannot say the contract has been breached.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
While I note the comments that have been made about the pressure Mr and Mrs B felt under 
in regard to their holiday product purchase, I cant see that Mrs B ever asked Tesco Bank to 
consider a complaint under Section 140A of the CCA or that Tesco Bank has had a chance 
to investigate this. So, if Mr and Mrs B wish to complain that there was an unfair relationship 
under Section 140A, they will need to contact Tesco Bank separately.
Conclusion
While I can understand why Mr and Mrs B may be unhappy with the membership product 
they purchased, the evidence available does not appear to support their claim for a refund 
under the CCA.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative responded to my provisional decision on their behalf. It said:
Misrepresentation under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mrs B entered into a contract with the Supplier after an extremely arduous and frightening 
sales pitch. Mr and Mrs B signed an agreement in order to be able to leave and they did this 
on the basis that they had four days in which to cancel. However, they were then told that 
they could not cancel the agreement and that they would not be allowed back their passports 
unless they honoured the contract. 
The representative said there was clear evidence of breaches of contract and systemic 
misrepresentations made by the Supplier and in accordance with Section 75 of the CCA, 
Tesco Bank was liable for the full amount paid being £3,942.23.
Cooling Off Period
Mrs B was not given the requisite time for cooling off, being 14 days in the UK and 10 days 
under the Timeshare Act 2010. They tried to cancel within two days but were not allowed to 
do so. 
Deposits taken before the Cooling Off period has expired (Timeshare Act 2010)
The regulations make provision about when consideration may be accepted in relation to 
regulated contracts and state that no person may accept any consideration from the 
consumer before the end of the withdrawal period in relation to the contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
This complaint was raised six years after Mr and Mrs B purchased their holiday club 
membership. Based on the dates of the information available it appears not to fall outside of 
the timescales for the Limitation Act 1980. Therefore, I have considered whether Tesco Bank 
acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mrs Bs claim under the CCA.
As I set out in my provisional decision, and was further noted in the representatives 
response to that decision, Mrs B made two initial payments using her credit card and then a 
number of subsequent monthly payments. I havent seen any further evidence in regard to 
the DCS agreement and as I noted previously there is a lack of clarity regarding the 
relationships between the parties and, its possible that the required DCS agreement wasnt 
in place.
However, as I mentioned in my provisional decision and I reiterate here, given the overall 
outcome Ive reached below, I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on the DCS 
agreement for the purpose of this decision because I dont think the complaint should 
succeed.
Misrepresentation under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs Bs representative reiterated the experience 
Mr and Mrs B had previously noted in regard to the sales process. The representative said 
that Mr and Mrs B were told they had to honour the contract or they wouldnt get their 
passports back. While I note this comment, in the initial information provided by Mrs B, she 
explained that they were upgraded from their apartment to a villa and given other additional 
services but when they said they wanted to withdraw from the holiday club membership they 
were told they would need to pay £15,000 for the use of the villa and services. As I have 
previously stated, I can understand how upsetting this must have been and I note the 
comments about the threats made regarding the payment. However, for me to say that a 
misrepresentation occurred I would need to show they were told something that induced 
them into the agreement that wasnt true. In this case the issue appears to be that Mr and 
Mrs B benefited from additional services when they agreed to the membership and then 
were told these would need to be paid for when they asked about withdrawing. Based on 
what I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say that this shows the agreement was 
misrepresented to them.
Mrs B says they agreed to sign the membership agreement because they were told they had 
four days to withdraw without any costs. I havent seen all the terms and conditions of the 
agreement Mr and Mrs B entered into so I cannot say it the terms included a withdrawal 
period. However, as noted previously, it appears the issue arose in regard to the costs for 
the additional services being charged when the discussion about withdrawal occurred rather 
than the withdrawal not being accepted. Therefore, based on what I have seen I do not find I 
have enough to say that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B.
Cooling off period and payments made
Mrs Bs representative has said that Mr and Mrs B werent given the required cooling off 
period and were required to make payments straight away. As I have previously noted this 
decision relates to Mrs Bs claim under Section 75 of the CCA. So, while I note the comments made, as these do not change my position in regard to the claim under Section 
75 of the CCA I have not considered these points further.
As I set out in my provisional decision, as issues relating to an unfair relationship giving rise 
to claims under Section 140A hadnt been raised with Tesco Bank I havent considered 
these further. If Mr and Mrs B wish to complain that there was an unfair relationship under 
Section 140A, they will need to contact Tesco Bank separately.
In conclusion, while I note the points raised in response to my provisional decision, these do 
not change my conclusion and my decision remains that I do not find Tesco Bank was wrong 
not to uphold this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman