DRN-2280954
The complaint
Mrs N complains about excess mileage charges when her agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited ended.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs N was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
BMWFS. She voluntary terminated the agreement in September 2020 and entered into a 
new agreement with BMWFS for a new car.
Mrs N is unhappy that shes been invoiced for excess mileage charges. She says she was 
advised that she wouldnt be charged excess mileage as she had taken out a new BMWFS 
agreement.
In response, BMWFS said it had made it clear to Mrs N that she would be responsible for 
excess mileage charges, and that the charges had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of her agreement.
Mrs N wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that Mrs N was told that she wouldnt be liable for excess mileage charges. The investigator 
said that the excess mileage charges had been applied in line with the terms and conditions 
of the agreement.
Mrs N didnt agree. She said shed been told she wouldnt be charged for excess mileage. 
She also said she wouldnt expect to be charged for excess mileage as shed entered into a 
further finance agreement with BMWFS.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This says that excess mileage charges will be payable 
if the maximum contact mileage is exceeded. It also says that if the agreement is voluntary 
terminated  as it was in this case  the maximum contract mileage will be pro-rated for the 
period the agreement has been ruing and the excess mileage charges will be payable on the 
pro-rated figure.
I can see from the agreement that Mrs Ns maximum contract mileage was 12,000 per 
annum. The agreement was voluntary terminated after 33 months and at that time the 
excess mileage was 11,946. The invoice for excess mileage shows how this has been 
calculated. Based on what Ive seen in the agreement and the invoice, Im satisfied that the 
excess mileage has been charged in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
I understand that Mrs N feels that shes been treated unfairly. Shes said that she was told 
that she wouldnt have to pay excess mileage because she was taking out a new BMWFS 
agreement.
This service has spoken to the dealership where Mrs N purchased her new car. It has said 
that it didnt advise Mrs N that her excess mileage charges would be waived. It also said 
there werent any discussions about excess mileage because Mrs N had already begun the 
voluntary termination process.
This service has also spoken to BMWFS. It has said that it isnt usual process to waive 
excess mileage charges and confirmed that dealerships have no authority to offer to waive 
excess mileage on BMWFSs behalf.
I understand Mrs Ns strength of feeling about this. But based on the information I have, 
there isnt enough evidence for me to say that Mrs N was told that excess mileage charges 
would be waived. I appreciate that Mrs N doesnt think she should have to pay these 
charges when shes taken out a further agreement with the same finance provider. But 
theres no evidence to suggest that BMWFS offered to waive excess mileage for this reason 
either.
I dint disagree with what Mrs N has said about ULEZ charges. However, Im unable to hold 
BMWFS responsible for the new legislation and charges. And I dont think the reasons for 
Mrs N changing her car have any bearing on her liability to pay excess mileage charges 
which have been applied in line with the terms and conditions of her agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman