DRN-3997428
The complaint
Mr W complains that Sainsbury's Bank plc didn't fairly deal with a claim he made under 
Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 'CCA') in relation to a purchase he 
made with a supplier.
What happened
Mr W purchased two laptops from a supplier, M, on 22 April 2022 for £4,808. He said they 
arrived on 29 April. He said the delivery driver knocked on his door and left the parcel on the 
doorstep. Mr W noticed the box was crushed and looked saturated, like it had been dropped 
in a puddle. He said he called the delivery driver back and refused the delivery due to the 
electrical and expensive nature of the products. He said he wasn't willing to accept the 
shipment and the delivery driver took the parcel back to his van.
Mr W said he contacted M which said it would investigate the situation. M rejected Mr W's 
refund request with no reason given. Mr W said he then brought the issue to Sainsbury's on 
1 June 2022 and made a S75 claim on the purchase.
At first Sainsbury's advised that the parcel was 'rescheduled for delivery' and it put the claim 
on hold for 30 days so the parcel could be re-delivered back to him or he could provide proof 
that he returned the parcel to M. Mr W said the tracking information showed that he rejected 
the parcel on 29 April and despite the tracking showing rescheduled for delivery he had not 
received the damage parcel nor any replacement from M. Mr W said he has a right to refuse 
delivery if the delivery is damaged.
After waiting some time to hear back from Sainsbury's Mr W raised a complaint with 
Sainsbury's.
In its final response Sainsbury's said Mr W hadn't provided any evidence there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by M, or that the goods were damaged as Mr W had 
suggested. It also said Mr W hadn't provided any evidence that he had rejected the goods 
and returned them to the delivery driver. Sainsbury's also said it hadn't received any 
evidence from M that it had received the rejected goods. Mr W wasn't satisfied and brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she didnt think Sainsburys had dealt with Mr Ws dispute unfairly. Mr 
W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but having done so I wont be asking 
Sainsburys to do anything further. 
In deciding what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required to 
consider relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
S75 of the CCA is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy goods and services on 
credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint about Sainsburys, I must be satisfied theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by M, and that Sainsburys response to Mr Ws claim under S75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable. But Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ws claim under S75 as that is 
for a court to decide.
From what Mr W has said he ordered two laptops. He says they were delivered but he did 
not accept the delivery because the package looked crushed and was saturated in one 
corner and was wet to touch, so he gave them back to the delivery driver to return them. Mr 
W says the delivery driver took the package away. Non receipt of items would be considered 
a breach of contract
In its response to this service Sainsbury's said it spoke with M in order to confirm whether 
the laptops were received by it. M confirmed it had not received the laptops. M also provided 
Sainsburys with a copy of the Proof of Delivery document that it took from the delivery 
company's website using Mr Ws tracking reference. Sainsbury's said this document is sent 
to the customer by the delivery company as a proof of delivery for the shipment. It said the 
document confirms that the package was delivered at 9.15am on 29 April 2022 to Mr Ws 
house. 
Sainsbury's said that the document does not however provide any evidence the package 
was rejected by the customer and returned to the delivery driver. It said Mr W provided a 
screenshot in his initial S75 request from the delivery company which has the tracking 
information as Returning to Sender. Sainsbury's said M provided it with a copy of this 
tracking information in further detail which they again obtained using Mr Ws tracking 
reference. It said under the Returning to Sender tracking details, the screenshot confirms 
this was logged at 4.26pm in Canada. It said the tracking information says the receiver 
refused the package that requires a Package Release Code. 
Sainsbury's went on to say Mr W claims he refused the package when it was delivered, at 
9.15am UK time. It said given the discrepancies between Mr Ws account and the tracking 
information provided by the delivery company, it did not consider the tracking information 
provided by Mr W to be sufficient evidence the package was rejected and returned to M. 
Sainsbury's said Mr W also has not provided evidence that he returned the goods to the 
delivery driver. It said its understanding is that delivery drivers will not accept packages 
returned in this way. As per the delivery companys website, in order to return the goods, the 
customer must take the item to be returned to a drop point near the customers home or 
schedule a collection.
Mr W provided this service with a copy of the screenshot saying reschedule of delivery 
confirmed then returning to sender. The tracking reference number matches that provided 
on the invoice for the laptops. So I'm satisfied that the delivery on the screenshot is 
connected to this particular parcel. But there is no further update as to whether the delivery 
reached either Mr W or M.
Mr W said the delivery company website states he could not refuse delivery for damaged 
items as this is not the correct process and he should have accepted the items and returned 
them to a parcel shop and advised them there he wanted to reject delivery. Mr W said this is 
not what happens and that whatever the standard text on the delivery website says, is not proof that he hasn't returned the items. He said he did not take legal ownership of the items 
in the first place, and the actual tracking information for the parcel M sent to him, shows he 
refused the delivery and the package was returning to sender.
I've looked on the website for the delivery company. I note that if a customer has a problem 
with a parcel they can file a claim. In the section managing your claim there is a flagged 
note which says if customers submit a damage claim they must retain the damaged item, 
packaging and all contents until the claim is resolved.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make a decision 
based on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I'm not disputing Mr W's 
testimony and I can fully understand his frustration at not receiving the laptops hes paid for. 
As I mentioned above my role is to determine whether Sainsbury's acted fairly in how it 
handled Mr W's S75 claim.
M provided evidence that it believed supported its case, namely evidence that showed the 
goods were delivered to the address that Mr W provided, and evidence from the delivery 
company showing the time and date the items were delivered. It also says it has no record of 
receiving the laptops back. Mr W has provided a screenshot tracking the parcel but the 
tracking data is unclear and Mr W hasn't provided evidence the box was damaged when it 
was delivered. 
For a valid claim to be made, Sainsburys would need to have enough evidence to show that 
there had been a breach of contract, i.e. that the laptops werent delivered to Mr Ws 
address. And in the absence of sufficient evidence to contradict the information provided by 
M, I cant fairly conclude that Sainsburys should have provided a refund under S75.
I've seen correspondence between Sainsbury's and M and I'm satisfied it investigated the 
complaint and sought evidence of breach of contract. I understand this will disappoint Mr W 
but Im satisfied Sainsburys has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with his claim and 
I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
We are an informal dispute resolution service so if Mr W chooses not to accept my decision, 
he is of course free to pursue his complaint through the courts, though this will come with 
additional cost and risk. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman