DRN-3065597
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Nationwide Building Society provided new bank details to a third
party without their permission.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.
Around December 2019, Mr and Mrs B cancelled a direct debit from their Nationwide
account for an insurance policy
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs B switched accounts to another bank via the current
account switching service
Around November 2020 Mr and Mrs B received a letter from the insurer informing
them it would be taking a payment from their account
As Mr and Mrs B had switched accounts, they didnt believe it would be debited, but
they later discovered the insurer had obtained their new bank details and had taken a
payment
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this and believes Nationwide disclosed the details
of their new account information to the insurer
Nationwide said the direct debit to the insurer was not on the list of debits it provided
to Mr and Mrs Bs new bank as part of the switching service and it had not provided
the new details to the insurer
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Nationwides response, so they brought their complaint to 
our service
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She said the insurer
had no record of Mr and Mrs Bs new bank account, or knowledge they switched accounts,
but were still able to take a payment from the new account, after being redirected.
She said on the balance of probabilities, she was persuaded it was Nationwide that passed
on the new account information to the insurer. She recommended Nationwide pay Mr and
Mrs B £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Nationwide said as the old bank, it wasnt responsible the redirection, so it didnt agree with
our investigator.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator, they provided further comments. In 
particular they didnt agree the compensation recommended by our investigator was
sufficient.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have raised other complaints regarding this issue. My decision is regarding the
complaint against Nationwide, so any references to any other parties is purely for contextual
purposes only.
I understand Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about what has happened and I want to assure
them Ive read and considered everything theyve said carefully. However, my findings focus
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. I dont mean this as
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence
presented by Mr and Mrs B, and by Nationwide, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The switching service is a scheme which several banks subscribe to. The service is
overseen by a separate organisation responsible for Direct Debits and Credits in the UK 
and not by Mr and Mrs Bs new or old bank.
On the switching services website (www.currentaccountswitch.co.uk), under common
questions, it says payments that are sent to old accounts are redirected to new ones by the
Current Account Switch Service.
The insurer has acknowledged a system error led to it losing information about lapsed
accounts  which led to it re-requesting the direct debit from Mr and Mrs Bs account. When
this happened, the request wouldve automatically redirected the insurer to Mr and Mrs Bs
new bank as part of the switching service.
Additionally, Nationwide have provided a list of direct debits it provided to Mr and Mrs Bs
new bank via the Current Account Switching Service. There are several direct debits on the
list, but I cant see that it contains any relating to the insurer in question.
So, Im not persuaded Nationwide provided the details of Mr and Mrs Bs new account to the
insurer.
And for the reasons Ive set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide responded to say they had nothing further to add
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with my provisional findings. They said there was a connection 
between the Nationwide and the insurer, as Nationwides website has a direct link to them. 
They said Nationwide were fully aware the direct debit had been cancelled previously and it 
should have been obvious this wasnt a new payment and contacted them.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. 
The insurer has acknowledged a system error led to it losing information about lapsed
accounts  which led to it re-requesting the direct debit from Mr and Mrs Bs account. When
this happened, the request wouldve automatically redirected the insurer to Mr and Mrs Bs
new bank as part of the switching service  and wouldnt have involved Nationwide.
Ive not seen the specific website link to the insurer Mr and Mrs B are referring to, but had I, 
Im not persuaded this means Nationwide shared the details with the insurer  as Ive 
already explained why I dont believe this is the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman