The Complaint
Ms F i s unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined her clai m under her household 
insurance policy following the fall of a ceiling, due to water damage. 
Background
Ms F noticed there was dampness in the bedroom carpet and that there was also a smell in 
the bedro om. She contacted gas engineers who sent someone to ca rry out an inspection. 
Having done so they told her that a sealant should be applied to the showe r and that she 
should instruct a plumber to apply the sealant. 
Ms F instructed a plumbe r who applied the sealant. He also told h er that he sa w cracks and 
thought that the water could be coming from the cracks. 
After this Ms F noticed that, although the bedroom carpet had dried out, water wa s seeping 
from the bathroom into the wall and the ceiling.  Shortly afte r this the ceiling fell. 
Ms F contacted AXAs Claims Department saying that there was water damage within her 
property. AXA instructed a lo ss adjuster to inspect the damag e and validate the claim. AXA 
then contacted Ms F and told her that the damage was not covered by he r insurance policy.
Ms F brought her complaint to u s and our investigato r didnt uphold it. Our investigator 
thought that AXA had acted in line with the terms and conditions of her policy. 
My findings
In considering this case, I have to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably. I have 
taken accou nt of all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reason
able in the circumstances of this complaint. 
AXA obtained a report fro m the loss adjuster that included photographs. The loss adjuster 
said wate r  damage was caused b y a deteriorated shower seal and said the leak had been 
going on for more than six months and the area was saturated and the timber s had started 
to rot. The loss adjuster said the walls were also badly saturated and the plasterboard would 
require to be replaced. 
It is clear from the report th at the sealant aroun d the shower had been leaking for a period of 
time (six years or more) and there has been a gradual deterioration of the shower sealant.
DRN-1595145I note from the policy documents that insured persons must take all reasonable precautions 
to avoid injury, loss or damage and that there is an obligation to maintain buildings (and 
contents) in a good state of repair.
In regard to Ms Fs claim the policy document states that damage may occur due to sealant 
or grout around the bath or shower getting worn away and it is therefore important to 
inspect and maintain the property since damage of this nature is not covered by the policy. 
It is also clearly stated in the policy documents that loss or damage caused by a failure or a 
lack of sealant and/or grout is not covered.
It is clear that there is an obligation on insured persons to maintain their property. However 
the sealant had been leaking for a period of more than six months. I also note that leaking 
sealant is excluded from the policy.
I conclude that AXA have acted in a fair and reasonable manner and have followed their own 
policy in declining Ms Fs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  I conclude that AXA Insurance UK Plc 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman