DRN-3584278
The complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr W was given 3 loans by 118 118 Money. He borrowed £2,250 in February 2016 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. He refinanced that loan in March 2017 and took 
additional borrowing. In total he was due to repay £3,910.60 over 36 months. Mr W then 
refinanced again for a second time in December 2017 and again added some additional 
borrowing on top. In total he borrowed £4,484.20 and agreed to repay this back over 24 
monthly instalments. When Mr W made his complaint to 118 118 Money, he had repaid all 
that he had borrowed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed to the first loan. It 
asked Mr W about his income and some information about his essential expenditure. It says 
it verified his income using an online tool. It carried out a credit check. It says those checks 
suggested Mr W had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that 118 118 Money 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ws 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were 
sufficient to achieve that aim. I think 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what the 118 118 Money gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it 
made a fair lending decision. 
118 118 Moneys credit check showed that Mr W was making use of other credit at the time 
he applied for loan 1. He had a fairly large payday loan, a credit card, another loan and 
home credit. He also had recently incurred a default on a telecommunications account. So, I 
think it would have been right for 118 118 Money to be concerned at this early stage that Mr 
W might be facing some problems managing his money.
In total Mr Ws outstanding loan and revolving credit debt amounted to around £2,276, and 
due to the short-term nature of one of his loans, his next monthly repayment due was over 
£1,000. If Mr W had told 118 118 Money that he was using the loan for something other than 
debt consolidation, I would have made the same conclusion as our investigator and said that 
Mr W had committed to too much credit repayment already. But Mr W told 118 118 Money 
that he wanted to use its loan to refinance those other debts. Since the amount that Mr W 
asked to borrow was around the same as his total outstanding credit, I think it would have 
been reasonable for 118 118 Money to accept his explanation of how he would use the loan 
at this stage. And by using the loan in that way Mr W would be able to reduce his credit 
expenditure from the £1,000 repayment he was due to make to around £178 per month. The 
loan term was clearly a lot longer, being 2 years, for him to be indebted by. But Mr W had a 
chance at this stage to clear all of his outstanding debts and have one affordable monthly 
repayment going forward.
So, at this stage I think it was reasonable for 118 118 Money to accept Mr Ws reason for 
applying for loan 1. And by doing so Mr W could significantly reduce his monthly outgoings 
and pay of his outstanding other debt. So, I currently dont think 118 118 Money did anything 
wrong when it agreed to give him loan 1.
Mr W then came back and asked 118 118 Money for a second loan in March 2017. He was 
looking to refinance and also have an additional amount paid to him on top. 118 118 Money 
says he told it he was going to use the capital coming to him for a car or car repairs. I think 
Mr W coming back, around halfway through his first loan repayments, asking for more 
finance should have caused 118 118 Money concern.
As before, 118 118 Money asked Mr W for information about his income and expenditure. It 
largely carried out the same checks as it did for the first loan including a credit check. The 
checks again suggested that Mr W had enough disposable income each month to afford the 
second loan repayments. And, although I think it ought to have had some concerns as I have 
already mentioned, I think on balance, its checks were also proportionate. But again, I think 
it would need to react to what these checks showed, and I dont think it did for loan 2. I think 
it should have not agreed to lend and I will explain why.    
The credit check that 118 118 Money carried out showed that Mr W had taken out several 
lines of new credit since it had last carried out a check on his finances for the application for 
loan 1. Mr W had 15 active accounts on this check. The additional active accounts had been 
taken out by Mr W within weeks of him applying for this loan. I can see that he had taken out 
4 short term loans in January and February 2017 alone and he had repayments to make on 
all of these. He also had 2 new home credit accounts and he had extended his credit limit for 
a mail order account too. In short, the debt consolidation from loan 1 didnt work.
Mr Ws outstanding debt had significantly increased from around £2,250 to over £6,000 and 
he now had several new credit commitments. Seeing all of this on Mr Ws credit report, 
demonstrate to me, on balance, that Mr W had become reliant on credit and was taking out 
loans to repay existing debt. He was now paying over half of his monthly income to service 
his debt and this loan would do nothing to alleviate that or improve the situation he found 
himself in. By agreeing to loan 2, all that 118 118 Money were doing were extending the 
terms of his first loan and agreeing to lend a bit more, that would in turn add to Mr Ws 
growing debt burden. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, I dont think the loan 
repayments for loan 2 were sustainably affordable for Mr W and 118 118 Money shouldnt 
have agreed to it.  
Mr W then came back 9 months later and asked for a third loan for £4,484.20. This would be 
repaid over 2 years with a proportion of the loan being used to repay loan 2 and an 
additional amount going to Mr W. 118 118 Money carried out similar checks to the ones it did 
for the first two loans. I dont think the checks it carried out here were proportionate, due to 
the findings I have already made and also because he had been indebted to 118 118 Money 
now for 22 months. I think by now, it ought to have been looking to carrying out a complete 
review of Mr Ws finances. But I think with the information it did have in front of it, it shouldnt 
have given Mr W the loan anyway. The credit search results that 118 118 Money gathered for loan 3, showed that in only 9 
months Mr W had increased his overall indebtedness to almost £12,000. He had taken out 
further credit including a significant loan for £6,193. Mr W was still making use of short-term 
lending. It is clear to me at this stage that Mr Ws debts were increasing steadily, and he 
continued to borrow more to repay what he already owed. This loan repayment was also not 
sustainably affordable for Mr W and 118 118 Money shouldnt have agreed to this loan 
either. Mr W told 118 118 Money that he was going to use the money for debt consolidation 
but as I have already explained, his previous attempt to do this had failed. It is more likely 
than not that Mr W would only be adding more to his debt pile by taking loan 3.
In addition, as I have already mentioned, Mr W had been indebted to 118 118 Money for 22 
months, when he came back and asked for another loan. I think 118 118 Money ought to 
have had serious concerns about the pattern of lending that had developed here and Mr Ws 
reliance on it for credit. I say this because the amount he had asked to borrow over this time 
had not decreased at all. Mr W was paying large amounts of interest to service a debt to 118 
118 Money over an extended period of time and this had become harmful to him. 
In conclusion, I think 118 118 Money made proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 1 
and on balance didnt do anything wrong when it agreed to lend at that stage. But by the 
time Mr W asked for loan 2, his circumstances had changed and 118 118 Money ought to 
have seen and reacted to this through the checks it made. I am currently minded to think it 
didnt make a fair lending decision when it agreed to loan 2 and his finances deteriorated 
further when it agreed to loan 3, so I dont think it should have given him that loan either. I 
also am minded to conclude that Mr W had become reliant on credit from 118 118 Money by 
the time he had asked for loan 3 and this was harmful to him. So, I uphold Mr Ws complaint 
and 118 118 Money need to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties responded and had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
loans 2 and 3, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted 
with interest and charges on loans 2 and 3 that shouldnt have been provided to him.
118 118 Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 2-3 and treat all the payments Mr W 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.Discuss with Mr W an affordable repayment plan if there is still an outstanding 
balance to repay.
Remove all negative information about Loan 2 on Mr Ws credit file. Remove all 
entries on Mr Ws credit report relating to loan 3. Any information about this loan was 
likely to be adverse for Mr W.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman