DRN-3777825
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs M opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in November 2019. Her account limit 
was initially low - £300. Over the course of the next 11 months Mrs Ms account limit was 
increased three times until, in October 2020, it was £1,000.
Mrs M says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her. She says that Studio Retail should 
have consulted her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was 
affordable for her.
 
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs M  and when it 
increased her credit limit.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ms complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mrs M was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was 
increased, Studio Retail didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so.
 
Our adjudicator said that Studio Retail should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mrs M. 
Studio Retail didnt agree. It said that Mrs M didnt miss any payments until after the last 
increase in her credit limit and that the management of her account was splendid. 
As Studio Retail didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ms complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs M. These factors include:
Mrs Ms income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayments to a 
given credit amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mrs M had been indebted, 
reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Mrs M opened her account in November 2019, Studio Retail has told us there were no 
signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, I dont 
think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to 
have approved the account. Mrs M declared an annual salary of £16,000. In the three 
months before opening the account Mrs M had no arrears or defaults, no CCJs and was not 
in bankruptcy or other debt arrangement. Studio Retail says it was unable to accurately 
verify Mrs Ms income but based on Office of National Statistics data it estimated Mrs M had 
a disposable income of £103 a month. Mrs M showed that Mrs M had a significant number of 
external credit accounts including five active revolving credit accounts and that she was 
relatively over-indebted. On this assessment Studio Retail concluded that it could offer Mrs 
M a credit limit of £300  and then £600 in March 2020. Sustainable repayments on this if 
the whole credit limit was utilised would have been in the region, it says, of £18 a month 
initially and by extension around £36 a month at the point of the first credit limit increase. 
I think on the information available that Studio Retail did sufficient checks at the point of 
account opening and first credit limit increase. I think Mrs Ms small disposable income was 
on the cusp of being insufficient to manage sustainable repayments, but  on balance  I 
think Studio Retail didnt act unfairly in providing the relatively small credit limit on account 
opening.
Two months later, Studio Retail increased Mrs Ms credit limit to £750  an increase of 150% 
on the original credit limit provided. I think given the low disposable income Studio Retail 
knew Mrs M had , Studio Retail should have had sufficient information for it to consider that it 
would have been proportionate to have found out more about Mrs Ms committed 
expenditure, such as her rent, council tax and utility bills. I cant be certain what Studio Retail 
would have found out had it done those checks, but I think its reasonable to take into 
account information Mrs M has provided about her finances in the form of her bank 
statements from the time. 
In the three months leading up to the credit limit increase in May 2020 the bank statements 
show that Mrs Ms committed expenditure, including rent, food, utilities, insurances and 
servicing other debts, exceeded her net monthly income. 
Studio Retail points to the fact that Mrs M didnt contact it to inform it of her financial 
difficulties. It also notes that that she had positively accepted the first increase in credit limit 
and hadnt opted out of further increases. But this does not detract from the fact that Studio 
Retail had an obligation to conduct reasonable and proportionate checks before offering the 
increase in credit. I consider that Studio Retail did not do this and, if it had, it would have 
realised Mrs M could not afford any more credit. I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Studio Retail to have increased the limit to £750 in May 2020 and I think Mrs M lost out as a 
result of what Studio Retail did wrong. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio Retail to refund any interest and charges incurred 
by Mrs M as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from 26 May 2020 onwards, therefore Studio Retail should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 26 May 2020 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, Studio Retail can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £600  this being the 
credit limit before 26 May 2020.
Studio Retail should work out how much Mrs M would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mrs M made since 26 May 2020 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs M 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs M no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from 26 May 2020. 
I understand that as of 29 March 2022 Mrs M had an outstanding balance. Studio 
Retail should treat Mrs M fairly if she continues to have difficulty meeting the 
repayments. If Mrs M feels she has been treated unfairly she must discuss matters 
first with Studio Retail and this service can consider this as a separate complaint if 
she is unhappy with their response. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Mrs M on 26 May 2020. 
To put this right, I direct Studio Retail & Company Limited to pay compensation as explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman