DRN-3458097
The complaint
Mr D complains that the advice given to him by Morgans Ltd about his Personal Pension 
arrangements was unsuitable. This complaint relates to two instances of advice where Mr 
Ds pension was switched to a new provider and in the second instance tax-free cash taken 
and drawdown commenced.
What happened
Switch 1  Zurich to Royal London.
Mr D held a Personal Pension with Zurich.  In 2002 Mr D met with an adviser from Morgans, 
she advised Mr D to switch his pension to Royal London. The reasons given were that it 
would provide cheaper fund management and provide access to a wider range of investment 
choice. The value at the time was £25,264.24. Mr D had been invested wholly in With-
Profits.
Within the reasons why letter Morgans said that the Zurich policy had exit charges and a 
bid/offer spread charge. However, weve since seen evidence that this wasnt correct  there 
was no exit penalty and no bid/offer spread charge.
Our original investigator looked into matters and from the information she was able to obtain, 
she found that the charging structure of Royal Londons plan wasnt cheaper than the 
original plan and so she said this transfer was unsuitable.
However, a second investigator reviewed the case and after obtaining further information 
from the providers, he came to a different conclusion. He found that whilst the reasons 
Morgans had given at the time for justifying the transfer werent accurate, there was a benefit 
to Mr D in transferring. After speaking to Royal London, he understood that at the advisers 
request the plan had a feature where the transfer value was enhanced on commencement, 
in this case 12%. To fund this enhancement an additional management charge was applied 
each year to clawback the enhancement over the life of the policy  which had a retirement 
age of 65. But the investigator concluded that the net enhancement of the transfer value was 
significant enough to mean that the transfer was suitable. He explained it gave Mr D a bigger 
pot to invest, which with good returns could provide higher benefits than the same returns 
from Zurich. The investigator also felt that the diversification achieved through the transfer 
was sensible and suitable for Mr D.
Both parties appear to have broadly agreed with the conclusions of the second investigator 
regarding Switch 1.
Switch 2  Royal London to Phoenix Wealth 
In 2006 Morgans says it wrote to all members to inform them that the rules around accessing 
protected rights pension funds had changed (allowing the funds to be converted into tax-free 
cash). Mr Ds recollection is slightly different, he says he was approached by Morgans who 
told him his pension was doing well and tax-free cash was available.
Regardless of how it came about, Mr D met with Morgans and it was recorded that he 
wished to take his benefits so he could access the tax-free cash early but that he didnt 
require income.  The adviser recommended a switch to income drawdown with Phoenix 
Wealth. She said there would be a small penalty applied due to the clawback arrangement 
due to the enhancement with Royal London of 7%. 
It appears that directly before transfer the value of the plan was £33,157.94 and after tax-
free cash of £8,269.74 was taken, a total of £24,809.24 was left. Morgans took commission 
of 6.5% from this balance  a total of £1,612.60. The plan also had other charges included, 
a Policy Service Charge of £125 deducted before the policy was placed into drawdown and 
then a Drawdown Service Charge of £125 after the tax-free cash had been paid. Meaning 
the amount left to be invested had reduced to £23,071.64.
Morgans said that Mr D had no safeguarded benefits but would lose the 50% spouses 
pension attached to the protected rights on transfer to drawdown.
Our original investigator didnt uphold the advice given to switch from Royal London to 
Zurich as Mr D had said that around the time of advice hed wished to purchase a car and 
caravan. The investigator had also worked on Mr Ds separate case looking at advice to go 
into drawdown in 2005 from a separate plan.  She said this wasnt Mr Ds main pension 
provision and it seemed to be a better route than using credit facilities. And whilst she 
didnt think the advice process was thorough enough to say Mr D was fully informed, she 
thought hed have gone ahead anyway as he had a requirement for the tax-free cash.
However, our second investigator came to a different conclusion. He spoke to Mr D and 
ascertained that hed only purchased a caravan and not a car. He said the crux of whether 
this advice was suitable was whether Mr D needed the tax-free cash. He explained 
Morgans shouldve recorded at the time why Mr D required the tax-free cash and it hadnt. 
And its defence that Mr D required it to purchase a caravan and a car had only come from 
something Mr D had told us subsequently (in relation to the other complaint). Hed now 
clarified with Mr D what hed actually used the money for  and hed purchased a caravan 
for £12,000 from the proceeds of the earlier advice to take tax-free cash from the other, 
larger, pension. The investigator pointed out this made sense considering the values and 
timescales involved.
So he concluded that there didnt appear to be any justification for drawing down the 
pension and taking tax free cash. He concluded the main function of a pension was to 
provide income in retirement  to take benefits earlier than that for other reasons would 
require a compelling reason to be suitable  and there wasnt one here. The investigator 
also said the further transfer in 2013 recommended by the same adviser wasnt Morgans 
responsibility as she had since moved to another firm.
Morgans in response said that in todays environment it agreed significant supporting 
evidence would be needed to recommend taking pension benefits to access tax free cash, 
but it was not so sure that this was the case in 2006.
It also said it was the clients money and if he wished to access his tax-free cash then what 
position was it to stand in his way. Morgans feel the investigator is applying the stricter 
rules of today to 2006.
Before issuing this decision I contacted both parties to say I intended to issue a decision 
along the same lines as the second investigators view but I would be making an 
amendment to the redress. I explained that the investigator had awarded 8% interest to be 
applied to any loss calculated at the date of the switch in 2013. However, Mr Ds fund had 
remained invested, and typically 8% is awarded due to loss of use of money. Whereas, any losses Mr D suffered were actually a loss of investment opportunity. And therefore an 
index in line with his attitude to risk was a fairer solution.
Morgans responded to say that it didnt understand why if we agreed the loss should be 
capped at 2013, why it needed an award to bring it up to the date of calculation. It also said 
its records show the adviser left in 2011, so that is the date that should be used to 
calculate the loss. 
The investigator explained that if a loss was found in 2013, the missing funds needed to 
be brought up to date, as Mr D wouldve had more money then to invest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I have to decide?
The investigators view that switch 1 was suitable hasnt been disputed and I am in 
agreement with his findings. So I dont think it necessary to discuss this in any more detail.
However, the advice given in relation to switch 2 is still in dispute. I therefore have to decide 
whether this advice was unsuitable. And if so, whether Mr D wouldve done something 
different if given suitable advice. 
The rules and guidance applicable at the time
As Morgans have pointed out legislation has strengthened over time but there were still rules 
and guidance in place at the time of the advice in 2006. Ive set out below the relevant rules 
and guidance from the time:
COB 5.3.5(1) said:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that, if in the course of designated 
investment business:
(a) it makes any personal recommendation to a private customer to:
(i) buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a designated investment (or to exercise any right 
conferred by such an investment to do so); or
(ii) elect to make income withdrawals; or
(iii) enter into a pension transfer or pension opt-out from an occupational pension scheme; 

the advice on investments or transaction is suitable for the client.
 (3) In making the recommendation or effecting the transaction in (1), the firm must have 
regard to:
(a) the facts disclosed by the client; and
(b) other relevant facts about the client of which the firm is, or reasonably should be, aware.Suitability wasnt defined but it is generally understood that this was built on the concept 
introduced by LAUTRO and FIMBRA  that suitability meant ensuring the advice met the 
customers demands and needs based on an analysis of their circumstances at the time.
COB 7.2 Churning and switching
COB 7.2.2  G 01/12/2001  
Principle 6 (Customers' interests) requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. A firm should therefore not "churn" a customer's account, 
that is, enter into transactions with unnecessary frequency having regard to the customer's 
agreed investment strategy. A firm should also not switch a private customer within or 
between packaged products unnecessarily, having regard to what is suitable for that 
customer. Firms are reminded that a customer's interests are paramount.
COB 7.2.3  R 01/12/2001  
A firm must not: 
(1) deal, or arrange a deal, in the exercise of discretion for any customer; or 
(2) make a personal recommendation to a private customer to deal, or arrange a deal that 
gives effect to such a recommendation; or
(3) make or arrange a switch within a packaged product or between packaged products, in 
the exercise of discretion for a private customer; or
(4) make a personal recommendation to a private customer to switch within a packaged 
product or between packaged products, or make or arrange a switch that gives effect to such 
a recommendation;
unless the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that the deal or switch is in the 
customer's best interests, both when viewed in isolation and when viewed in the context of 
earlier transactions.
In December 2008 the Financial Services Authority (now the FCA) published a thematic 
review summarising the good and bad practices it found from its research. It assessed 
pension advice from April 2006 to see what was happening in the market.
The report set out four main areas where customers had lost out due to poor advice:
the switch involved extra product costs without good reason (79% of
unsuitable cases);
the fund(s) recommended were not suitable for the customers attitude to risk
and personal circumstances (40% of unsuitable cases);
the adviser failed to explain the need for, or put in place, ongoing reviews when
these are necessary (26% of unsuitable cases); and
the switch involved loss of benefits from the ceding scheme without good reason
(14% of unsuitable cases).
With regards to costs, it also said:
Unnecessary additional costs3.4 This was by far the most common reason for unsuitable advice, accounting for 79%
of unsuitable cases. The main problems found were:
 extra product costs were incurred without good reason (65% of unsuitable cases);
 a switch to consolidate different pension schemes where the cost was not explained
or justified to the customer (35% of unsuitable cases); and
 the new pension was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder
pension would have met the customers needs (21% of unsuitable cases).
My findings
Mr D was given advice to transfer his benefits into drawdown to access his tax-free cash. 
But in doing so early redemption penalties and extra costs were suffered and he also lost his 
entitlement to a 50% spouses pension.
The adviser said in the suitability letter that there would be a small penalty applied to the 
fund on transfer. I disagree that the penalty was small, it was 7% of the fund, he also paid 
6.5% commission to Morgans and another £250 of provider charges. So Mr D suffered 
significant costs to access his tax-free cash. In considering whether Mr D was treated fairly 
alongside the rules and guidance at the time, I think its reasonable to say there would need 
to be a very good reason to incur these penalties.
Did Mr D require the tax-free cash?
Morgans in its suitability letter said it was recommending drawdown as Mr D required tax-
free cash, but it didnt record why he required it. Which is a failing in itself. Firms were 
required to detail why they were making a recommendation with reference to a customers 
circumstances and needs. Not recording why Mr D required the tax-free cash raises 
questions, if it was discussed Id expect it to have been recorded as it was the key reason for 
recommending the switch and Mr D incurring additional costs.
As part of our investigations into this case and the separate case, Mr D told us that the only 
reason taking tax-free cash appealed was that he was considering buying a new caravan 
and car. Hed also told us, hed already paid off his mortgage, was on good money for the 
time and had no dependant children, so he couldve financed large purchases in other ways.
Mr D clarified about the above, that in the end he only bought the caravan which cost him 
around £12,000. And he used the tax-free cash that hed received from the proceeds of his 
former employers plan in 2005, which Morgans had also advised him to transfer to access 
tax free-cash.
So given there was no documented need (in either transfer) for tax-free cash. And Mr Ds 
recollections from the time which Ive no reason to believe arent honest, it doesnt appear 
that there was any great need for Mr D to take more tax-free cash in 2006.
Was the advice suitable? 
In switching the pension, as Ive already set out Mr D incurred significant costs and also 
gave up a 50% spouses pension to access the tax-free cash that it doesnt appear he 
needed. I think this is a clear failure to meet the standard of advice required at the time (as 
set out earlier) under COB.
 Morgans shouldve reasonably been aware of the reasons why Mr D wanted to take tax-free 
cash and it shouldve balanced this against his needs in retirement. As ultimately, the 
purpose of a pension is to provide income in retirement. It didnt do so. 
It should also have had regard for Mr Ds circumstances, such as his other pension provision 
and the fact it had already advised him to transfer his main pension provision to access tax-
free cash just a year earlier (and in doing so losing Mr D a significant amount of protected 
tax-free cash). It also needed to consider this switch in isolation but also in relation to other 
transactions it had advised on. And only four years prior, Morgans had recommended Mr D a 
plan and actively selected a feature where exit penalties would be applied on a sliding scale 
if the pension was switched or taken early. The benefit of which was to give Mr D a higher 
starting figure to invest with the idea of outperforming the additional charges applied.  In 
advising Mr D to switch his plan so soon after, he then incurred a 7% penalty due to 
selecting this feature which most likely undid any good the enhancement wouldve offered. I 
dont think Mr Ds interests were held as paramount as COB 7.2.2 required. 
Looking at the findings of the thematic review, the advice given here meets many of the 
markers of poor advice identified by the regulator at the time. Mr D suffered unnecessary 
costs without good reason and also lost benefits. 
What would Mr D have done if given suitable advice?
Morgans have argued that Mr D approached them wanting to take tax-free cash and it 
wasnt for them to stand in his way as it was his money. But I think this is a fundamental 
misunderstanding of its responsibilities when giving advice. Mr D wasnt paying them simply 
to administer a switch for him, he was paying for expert advice. And he didnt come to 
Morgans with a specific destination in mind, theres no evidence to say Mr D was insistent. 
So Morgans needed to give suitable advice considering Mr Ds circumstances and needs, 
and provide him with all the facts so he was fully informed. I dont think it did.
Mr D also disputes that it was him who approached Morgans, regardless I think Mr D was 
fully reliant on Morgans for advice. Had Morgans advised Mr D that there would be 
significant penalties on taking his benefits early which likely wouldnt be recovered and 
discussed properly whether there was a pressing need for tax-free cash, I dont think Mr D 
wouldve wished to go ahead with the switch to drawdown. Had he understood he would 
likely be better off leaving his funds invested until he needs them in retirement, I think Mr D 
wouldve listened to this advice.
Conclusions
The advice given to Mr D in 2006 was wholly unsuitable for his circumstances and needs. 
And it didnt meet the required standards of the time.
If Mr D had been given suitable advice, I dont think he wouldve wished to take the tax-free 
cash and wouldve left his benefits invested with Royal London until he required income in 
retirement.
Putting things right
It is not possible to put Mr D back into the position he wouldve been had he not switched his 
pension in 2006. And I understand he has also made a further switch in 2013. The adviser 
was no longer connected to Morgans Ltd when the further switch in 2013 occurred, which 
means Morgans could no longer advise Mr D on his investment/retirement plans. And 
therefore I think the date of the 2013 switch is a fair point to calculate the loss at.Morgans in response has argued it should be an earlier date as the adviser ceased to work 
for Morgans in November 2011, so this is the date that should be used. Ive considered this 
carefully but having done so I think the date of the switch in 2013 is a fairer date to select. I 
say this because the advisers way of working appears to have only to involved switching 
providers rather than considering the investments within an existing provider. So the result of 
the advice in 2006, would likely always have been the same regardless of whether she was 
working for Morgans or her new firm.
Weve contacted Phoenix Wealth to ask if any fund switches were made between 2011 and 
2013 and theyve informed none were, bar a mandatory and automatic switch that happened 
due to a fund being no longer offered. So I think any losses up to the switch in 2013 were as 
a result of the advice given in 2006. I recognise Morgans couldnt have changed the portfolio 
after 2011 but had the adviser stayed with Morgans the evidence strongly suggests she 
wouldnt have made any changes then in any event. It should be noted that I dont know the 
performance of the funds in question, so it could be that 2013 or 2011 could increase or 
decrease the loss in question. This is not about choosing a date that benefits one party or 
the other but what seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Morgans also questioned why if the loss was calculated in the past, i.e at the date of switch , 
why does it need to be brought up to date  it said this didnt seem fair. The reason for this 
is, lets say the loss Mr D suffered in 2013 was calculated as £5,000, had it not been for 
Morgans unsuitable advice he wouldve had £5,000 more to invest  to the present day. So 
that £5,000 needs to be brought up to date, as if Mr D had invested it.
The investigator had said to use 8% simple interest to bring the award up to date  but this is 
commonly used in situations where a customer has lost the use of that money where it 
would otherwise wouldve been in their pocket to spend. But I understand that Mr D is only 
looking to draw benefits from his pension plans now and they remain invested. An alternative 
to using the actual investments a customer has been invested in (the switch in 2013 brought 
about new investments  so it wouldnt be fair to use these) is an index which can be used to 
mirror the likely investment performance an investor with a similar risk rating couldve 
received. In the circumstances here I think this is the fairest solution.
Fair Compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr D as close as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
advice.
I think Mr D would have remained within his Royal London plan. I am satisfied what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Morgans do?
To compensate Mr D fairly Morgans should:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment up until 2013, with the notional value if it 
had remained with Royal London from 2002 through to 2013. If the actual value is 
greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Morgans should pay into Mr D's current pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation calculated  this should include a payment to 
reflect the loss being brought up to date using the index specified. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Morgans shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Morgans are unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr D 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Morgans consider that it is required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Morgans should tell 
Mr D how much it has taken off. Morgans should also give Mr D a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
calculation to 
bring loss up to 
date
Phoenix
Wealth
Pension
PlanNo longer in 
force as 
switched in 
2013Notional value
from Royal
London2002  date 
of switch to 
Royal LondonAugust
2013 the date 
of the switch 
out to a new 
provider. If a loss is 
found at the end 
date  this 
needs to be 
brought up to 
the date of 
calculation 
(present date) 
using the rate of 
return of the 
FTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income total 
return indexActual value
This means the actual amount of the Phoenix Wealth policy at date of switch.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with Royal London until the end 
date. Morgans should request that the Royal London calculates this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Phoenix Wealth Pension Plan should be added to the
notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Phoenix Wealth Pension Plan should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Morgans total all those payments and deduct 
that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the Royal London is unable to calculate a notional value, Morgans will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the Royal London is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the measure 
below is appropriate. If the provider is able to calculate a notional value then the index 
below should be used to bring any loss up to date.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr D's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can 
be found by following this link: https://www.financial- 
ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-complaint/understanding- 
compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, just type 
compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Morgans Ltd should pay any loss calculated as set out above.
Morgans Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman