DRN-2584146
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to tell him that he was no 
longer earning credit interest on his 123 account. 
What happened
Mr M opened a 123 account in 2013. In 2019, Mr M discovered that he was no longer 
receiving credit interest on his account. Mr M says that Santander did not make him aware 
that he was not receiving interest and shouldve contacted him as a matter of courtesy. He 
believes that Santander should refund him the interest that he missed out on.
Santander say that the reason why no interest was earned was because a direct debit was 
cancelled by Mr M in 2016 and another direct debit expired due to not being used. Given this 
he no longer met the criteria for earning interest. Santander also says that Mr M was 
informed that he was no longer meeting the criteria for interest on his monthly bank account 
statements.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr M disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance the main things for me to consider are whether Santander made Mr M aware 
of the criteria for earning interest; whether Mr M no longer met the criteria; and whether 
Santander did what it was obliged to do in relation to informing Mr M that he was no longer 
meeting any criterion.
I should also clarify that as an independent and impartial service I can only recommend that 
Santander refund interest if it has done something wrong.
In relation to the notification of the criteria for earning interest I can see that they are 
highlighted in the terms and conditions of the account and on monthly bank statements. So I 
think Santander did enough to inform Mr M on how to earn interest. 
I am satisfied that Mr M cancelled a direct debit in 2016 himself which meant that he had no 
active direct debits on the account. I can see that the criteria for earning interest states that 
two active direct debits are required for interest to be earned. So overall I am satisfied that 
Mr M no longer met the criteria to earn interest.
The next thing to consider is whether Santander did enough to inform Mr M that he was no 
longer earning interest. I can see that on the monthly account statements posted to Mr M in 
the interest earned section it stated that no interest was being earned. Additionally, directly 
under this section it states the criteria for earning interest. Given this I think that Santander 
has done what it was required to do.
I note that Mr M believes that as a courtesy Santander shouldve contacted him directly 
outside of the monthly account statements. I understand Mr Ms feelings on this but nothing 
in the terms and conditions of the account state that Santander was required to do this. 
There was no personal account management, or wider financial advice, provided as part of 
this account. I can see that Mr M believes that his Select Advisor shouldve proactively 
reviewed his account to check he was receiving interest but my understanding is that it is 
their role to provide financial advice when asked rather than to continually review accounts. 
So I cant see how an individual Santander representative could have been expected to 
notice this change and proactively contact Mr M about it. 
I note that Santander has now changed its processes, so it does notify customers when they 
are not receiving interest. But this does not mean they made an error in not doing this in the 
past as it previously made no prior commitment to its customers to do so.
I can see that in the past Santander paid Mr M compensation for not informing him that it 
was cancelling a direct debit on a separate account. But in this instance Santander did not 
cancel Mr Ms credit card direct debit, he did this himself, so there was nothing for it to let 
him know in relation to this direct debit.
Because of this, I dont think Santander should pay Mr M the interest he couldve earned. So 
overall Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman