DRN-2921105
The complaint
Mr A has complained about esure Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in an accident in November 2019. esure said it was uneconomical 
to repair and settled Mr As claim for the loss of his car. But it said, when taking the policy 
out, Mr A had under-declared the annual mileage. So it reduced its claim settlement.
esures salvage agents sold the car before Mr A had agreed to the settlement. At that time 
the car had a cherished number plate. Mr A complained that esure had sold his car and plate 
without his agreement. esure accepted that some of its service could have been better. So it 
paid Mr A £300 to address the impact of that. It also said it would cover the costs of an 
equivalent cherished plate if Mr A wanted that. But it was happy it had settled the claim fairly.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2021. For ease 
I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr As made a number of detailed points. But I don't intend to 
address each and every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
issues at the heart of Mr As complaint.
Was it fair for esure to reduce its settlement for the total loss of Mr As car?
Mr A initially took out a policy with esure in July 2018. He applied for it online through a 
comparison website. When applying for it the website asked what his estimated yearly 
mileage would be. And it warned Mr A to answer as accurately as possible as otherwise his 
cover could be impacted. Mr A said he thought the car would drive between 4,000 and 5,000 
miles a year. Mr As policy renewed in July 2019. It did so on the basis that Mr As car would 
again do between 4,000 and 5,000 miles a year.
When Mr A claimed for the loss of his car esure noted from its MOT history that Mr As car 
had travelled:
15,564 miles between March 2017 and March 2018.
17,400 miles between March 2018 and March 2019.
20,290 miles between March 2019 and November 2019 when his car was deemed a 
total loss.
Based on his mileage from March 2019 to November 2019, esure estimated Mr As total 
miles covered between 2019 and 2020 would have been in the region of 25,000 to 30,000. It 
said that if it had been aware of Mr As actual mileage it would have charged him a higher 
premium. In essence it said that in not giving an accurate mileage figure Mr A had made a 
mistake, known in the insurance industry as a misrepresentation, when applying for the 
policy and again at renewal.
It might help if I explain that theres specific law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - which sets out what insurers may do when a 
consumers made a misrepresentation. And that says that where, but for that 
misrepresentation, an insurer would have offered the policy, but charged a higher premium, 
then the insurer may settle any claim on a proportionate basis. By that I mean it can work out 
what percentage of the correct premium the policyholder had actually paid compared to what 
they should have paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that percentage (as set against 
the overall settlement figure). In this case esure said that if Mr A had declared his full 
mileage it would have charged him considerably more for his premium. It said that as he only 
paid around 64.67% of his premium, it settled his claim for the loss of his car based on the 
same percentage of the full settlement figure.
Mr As said he didn't make a misrepresentation when his policy renewed in 2019. He said his 
circumstances changed in June 2019; in that he started car sharing and was only using his 
car about once a week. He added that one of the named drivers on his policy had moved 
away which caused a dramatic reduction in his mileage. But I don't find Mr As comments 
persuasive.
Mr As said that comparing mileage from one year to the next is illogical. But I disagree. 
Insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. That is, insurers think about how likely it is 
that their policyholders will make a claim and what they will likely have to pay out for those. 
Insurers consider many factors when calculating that risk. One of those factors is the 
mileage that its policyholders will travel. Thats because, generally, cars with a higher annual 
mileage are seen as being a higher risk. The more time they spend on the road the more 
likely they are to be in an accident. Insurers use complex algorithms to calculate that risk. 
And when designing those, amongst other things, they will look to whats happened in the 
past to determine whats likely to happen in the future. So I don't think its necessarily 
illogical to compare one year with another.
When Mr A took out his policy in July 2018 he told esure that he only anticipated doing about 
a third of the miles hed travelled the previous year. Mr A told us that when applying for that 
policy he used prudent judgement and took reasonable care to arrive at that annual 
mileage. But if thats correct then his judgement appears to have been considerably flawed. 
And, if his circumstances changed causing his mileage to increase significantly during the 
year, then his policy required him to tell esure about that. But I haven't seen evidence that he 
did so despite the car doing more than three times his estimated mileage.
Mr A renewed his policy in July 2019. He left his annual mileage as between 4,000 and 
5,000 even though, in the year between March 2018 and March 2019 his car had covered 
17,400 miles. Mr As said that because of the changes in his circumstances I've referred to 
above, he expected his mileage to reduce significantly in the policy year starting in 
July 2019.
Mr A told us that he hadn't exceeded his mileage at the time that his car was deemed a total 
loss. He said his mileage was at around 95,000 miles when the policy renewed in July 2019. 
So hed only covered around 2,300 miles between his policy renewing and his accident 
(around four months later) in November 2019.
But, if the cars mileage was 95,000 in July 2019, that means it had travelled around 17,988 
miles between his MOT in March 2019 (when the mileage was 77,012) and his policy 
renewing in July 2019. That gives an average over that four month period of roughly 4,500 
miles a month. That would equate to 54,000 miles a year. This is more than triple his previous mileage and hugely over what he told esure he anticipated covering in that whole 
policy year. However, despite this vast increase in mileage Mr A didn't notify esure of it. Mr A 
says he then expected to reduce his car usage, from June 2019, to around 400 miles a 
month, which using the average figure I calculated of 4,500 miles, would be less than 
ten percent of his average mileage previously. I think a reduction in use of his car of that 
nature is unlikely.
Further, Mr A said that one of his named drivers had moved away dramatically reducing the 
mileage. But, in response to our investigator's assessment of the complaint, Mr A had 
previously told us that he was the cars main user, and that based on past experience he 
expected his named drivers to only cover around 100 miles in the year. So I don't think 
Mr As been consistent. And I dont find his evidence plausible.
In those circumstances I think it was reasonable for esure to look at the mileage Mr A had 
done from the date of his MOT until his accident and calculate a likely annual mileage based 
on those figures. Thats what esure did, and I think that was reasonable. And, if Mr A had 
told esure about his likely actual mileage it would have charged him a higher premium. In 
those circumstances CIDRA allows it to settle his claim proportionally, which is what it did. I 
think that was fair.
Was it fair for esure to sell Mr As car?
Mr A believes the car esure sold is still his property. But he's mistaken. Mr As policy says 
that once esure has settled a claim for the total loss of a car, the car becomes its property. 
And, like all motor insurance policies I'm aware of, Mr As policy allows esure to settle claims 
as it sees fit. That means it didn't require Mr As agreement in order to settle his claim on a 
total loss basis. And, having settled it, the car became esures property, regardless that Mr A 
might have continued to dispute the amount of the settlement.
That said at the time of the accident Mr As car still had a cherished number plate. And he 
wanted to consider his options about keeping the plate and buying the cars salvage from 
esure and repairing the car himself. But because esure sold the car, he couldn't do either of 
those things. I should say that esure isn't under any obligation to sell the salvage to Mr A, 
but in this case I haven't seen any reasons why it shouldnt have given him that option if hed 
asked for it. And even if Mr A had decided he didn't want to buy the car back, it should have 
given him the opportunity to secure the cherished plate before it sold the car on.
esure has accepted that it shouldnt have sold the car as it did. So it offered to cover the 
costs of an equivalent cherished plate, of roughly £270, although, as far as I'm aware, Mr A 
didn't accept that offer. It also paid Mr A £300 compensation. But in the specific 
circumstances of this case, I don't think that compensation goes far enough. Not only did 
esure deny Mr A the opportunity to fully consider his options about keeping his car, the sale 
of it also meant he lost his cherished number plate. I understand that was a gift from a family 
member. And its something hes unlikely to be able to recover. I don't think the £300 
compensation esure has paid goes far enough to address the impact of esures mistakes. So 
to reflect Mr As distress and inconvenience arising from the premature sale of the car, 
together with the number plate, I think esure should pay Mr A a further £500 compensation. 
For the avoidance of doubt that is on top of the £300 its already paid to him.
Developments 
Mr A said that he didn't exceed 4,000 to 5,000 miles during the policy period. He said there's 
no evidence of him doing that. So he didn't make a misrepresentation. He said esure had 
agreed with him not to move, sell or salvage his car. He said that agreement superseded the 
policy. So esure wasn't entitle to settle the claim as it saw fit. esure disagreed with the level of compensation I said I was intending to award. It said that 
Mr A hadn't asked to keep his car, only the plate. So it hadn't given any consideration to 
whether or not Mr A had wanted to keep the car. It said it wouldn't be appropriate for it to 
offer policyholders the option of keeping their cars when uneconomical to repair.
It said it simply hadn't realised that Mr As car had a cherished plate. But it felt its offer to 
replace it with something similar together with the £300 compensation it had paid was fair. It 
said that £800 compensation solely for the loss of a number plate was excessive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I don't intend to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Mr A 
said he didn't exceed the mileage limit and insists there's no evidence he did so. But, for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, I think it's more likely than not that Mr A exceeded 
his mileage limit, and the evidence to support that comes from his cars odometer which 
recorded the distance it had travelled. Mr A hasn't provided any new evidence or arguments 
which persuade me to change my conclusions on that matter. So I'm satisfied that Mr A did 
make a misrepresentation when he took out his policy and that it was fair for esure to settle 
his claim on a proportionate basis. 
Mr As also said that esure had an agreement with him not to move, sell or salvage the car. 
And he said that agreement superseded his insurance policy. But I think hes mistaken. For 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision and which I've expanded on below I agree that 
esure shouldn't have sold the car as it did. But any agreement Mr A had made with esure 
didn't supersede his policy. That was still in place at the time that esure sold the car. And the 
policy formed a contract between esure and Mr A. So its not the case that it had been in any 
way superseded. And that meant that esure could settle the claim as it saw fit. That is unless 
Mr A had withdrawn the claim in its entirely, which would have meant he wasn't entitled to 
any form of settlement under the terms of the policy. And given Mr As car was a total loss I 
don't think that was something that was likely to happen. 
That said, at the time that esure sold Mr As car it hadn't settled his claim. That meant that 
the car wasn't esures to sell. And if it had been clear about what it intended to do, including 
disposing of the car, Mr A could have thought about whether he wanted to retain its salvage 
or not. But esure didn't give him that opportunity because it had already sold the car. That 
wasn't fair regardless of whether or not Mr As car had a cherished plate. And as that's a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr A its something I've taken account of when 
awarding compensation. So esure is wrong to say that the compensation Ive awarded is 
solely for the loss of a cherished plate.
Further, the lost cherished plate was a gift from Mr As brother. Replacing it with something 
similar  but not the same  won't make up for that loss. And, when I've thought about 
compensation, I've also thought about the value of the lost plate. So, as well as the distress 
and inconvenience to Mr A because esure sold both his cherished plate and his car when 
those things weren't its to sell, Ive also taken into account the value of the lost plate. And 
having thought about those factors carefully I think £800 compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances, as it's in line with awards we make in other cases of similar seriousness.   My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr A a further £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman