DRN-2289840
The complaint
Ms R complains that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd wrongly advised her to 
invest £15,000 in an unsuitably risky product, the Meteor 5 Kick Out Plan, in 2011.
What happened
Ms R said she initially went to the advisor for mortgage advice and, after realising how much 
she had on deposit, he encouraged her to invest. This money was set aside for her 
daughters future and she would never have wanted to take a big risk with it. She said hed 
also tried to persuade her to invest the rest of her money in hand-to-hand lending, which 
demonstrates how little he was concerned with her circumstances compared to his own 
interests.
Ms R subsequently confirmed that she was not complaining about other recommendations 
from the time such as the Met Life bond.
An investigator at this service felt her complaint should be upheld, noting Ms Rs 
circumstances and likely objectives at the time, including:
She had £25,000 from maturing endowments
She was advised to invest the other £10,000 in a limited capital-protected product 
(with a guarantee of 70% back)
She had an additional £15,000 on deposit and £5,000 in an ISA
She was 36, had a modest salary with a recorded monthly surplus of £200
She had a dependent child and an outstanding mortgage
Her attitude to investment risk was recorded as realistic (described as an average 
risk taker) and was recorded as looking for a long-term investment to deliver capital 
growth and financial security
In his view, Ms Rs complaint should be upheld given:
Ms R was a fairly inexperienced investor and was looking for a low-risk product
The business description of a realistic risk-taker was someone who would like to 
preserve short term financial security through low risk investments but also wish to 
benefit from the prospect of good long term returns from higher risk investment types, 
which may include some lower risk share/equity-based investments.
Ms R responded to the statement Investments can go up and down and experts 
often say you should be prepared to weather a downturn. By how much could the 
total value of your investments fall before you would begin to feel uncomfortable? 
answering more than 33%
By contrast, the Meteor Plan prospectus said: The capital return at maturity will 
depend on the performance of the shares and it is possible that you could lose some, 
or all, of the amount you invest
There was no evidence that Ms R was looking to take this level of risk with her 
money i.e. potentially losing all of it
The unacceptably high level of risk posed by this investment was underlined by the 
fact that returns were based on the performance of five individual shares rather than 
a broad-based spread of shares as with a managed fund
Taking account of the £10,000 Ms K was advised to invest in the partially capital-
protected product this still left too much of her money exposed too excessive risk
He proposed that Wealthmasters should compare the return Ms R received on her Meteor 
investment with what she might have got via a more suitably low-risk investment and by 
using this services standard low-cautious risk returns formula. If this showed a loss, it 
should pay this and add 8% simple interest to the sum from the date Ms R surrendered the 
investment to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Wealthmasters did not agree, and said:
Ms R was a well-educated person and capable of understanding the information 
provided, including the suitability letter which fully explained the product
She chose a more aggressive strategy given the low interest rates at the time
She chose to surrender her bond early so this should be taken into account when 
considering any compensation
Had she retained the plan, shed have got a better return as gains were locked in
The Meteor bond recommendation was part of an overall package of 
recommendations, notably the capital-protected product
Together, the risk of these two products matched her overall capacity for risk
She met the advisor on several occasions and this recommendation was agreed 
between them, and was something she fully understood
Her overall loss at 34.6% was within a tolerance margin of her capacity of 33%
It has been well documented by the regulator that reliance on a sole risk statement or 
assessment is not sufficient justification for advice. This is therefore used as part of a 
consideration of the clients overall circumstances combined with detailed 
documented discussions etc.
It cannot be held liable for the subsequent poor performance of an investment, and 
this is what prompted this complaint (and Ms Rs changing recollection of events)
The Ombudsman should initially be relying on contemporaneous records; if these 
support the business then these should be relied upon more heavily than assertions 
made by Ms R after the fact, especially given how long ago the advice occurred
The investigator misinterpreted the use of the lock-In option. This was an added 
option available to provide additional security during uncertain markets and had no 
impact on the potential losses or of the risk rating of the underlying fund
The 30% barrier was not therefore the basis for the capacity for loss but the 
underlying fund, its exposure, performance and risk rating. It is not appropriate 
therefore to use the lock-in feature as the basis of loss assumption
The fund overview shows evidence of this along with its almost identical performance 
to that of the suggested redress portfolio
Her need to access the funds would have impacted on whatever alternative portfolio 
should allegedly have been implemented
The Met Life Bond was suitable and so should not be included in any redress 
calculation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
the detailed explanation he gave, which I entirely agree with.
In essence, I am satisfied that this was extremely poor advice, exposing a large amount of 
Ms Rs money to far too high a risk given her background, circumstances and likely 
objectives. In my view it is clear that Ms R should have been recommended a relatively 
cautious-risk investment (in relation to this £15,000 of her money) and that this product was 
very far from cautious. Whether it would be more fairly described as medium or high risk is 
debatable but it clearly exposed her money to very substantial risk. 
The fact that Mrs Rs actual loss was only just over the 33% figure the advisor recorded as 
the maximum she would be comfortable with losing does not justify what was an intrinsically, 
unsuitably risky product. She could have lost far more than 34.6% of her money. Also, it was 
the advisors responsibility to assess her overall circumstances, including her limited 
investment experience, and her financial position to give her the benefit of his experience 
and expertise  and not just take her reference to a maximum 33% loss as the basis for 
recommending something which could easily lose that amount. 
I am therefore satisfied that any compensation should be based on how much Ms Rs money 
might have returned if invested in a more suitably low-risk investment (using this services 
agreed formula).
From the evidence I have seen I am also satisfied that this recommendation - and the very 
large loss that ensued - caused Ms R great mental strain. I have further taken into account 
that Wealthmasters refused to acknowledge and deal with Ms Rs complaint when she first 
expressed clear signs of dissatisfaction with the original advice (as judged by the FCA 
guidelines) back in 2014 and that this resulted in a very lengthy delay in her complaint being 
considered. I have no doubt that this added considerable extra trouble and upset to Ms R.
Given this, I informed Wealthmasters that I intended to instruct it to pay Ms R £500 in lieu of 
this substantial trouble and upset, giving it two weeks to comment before I made a final 
decision about this issue. It did not respond.
 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation for this money (£15,000), I consider that
my aim should be to put Ms R as close to the position she would probably now be in if he 
had not been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given s R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What Wealthmasters should do
To compensate Ms R fairly it should:
Compare the performance of her investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
It should also pay interest as set out below.Provide the details of the calculation to Ms R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Meteor 
bondsurrendere
dfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement8% simple
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced 
a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, it should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end 
of the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept 
if it totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
      Ms R wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital
.
The WMA index is a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes, 
mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher returnI consider Ms Rs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Ms R into that position. It does not mean she 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Ms R could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude
Wealthmasters must also pay Ms R £500 for the reasons outlined earlier.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman