DRN-3967190
The complaint
Ms H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (who Ill call BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms H acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It explains that a consumer has 
30 days to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory quality, not fit for purpose, or not as described.
Theres no dispute that Ms H asked to reject the car within 30 days of taking receipt of it. 
But the business say the car was of satisfactory quality and I agree. The relevant legislation 
says that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Ms H has provided a report from a garage who inspected her car shortly after she had taken 
receipt of it. The report said the car had slight play in the near side front ball joint. Whilst 
the business may have been willing to repair that issue I dont think it could fairly be 
considered to have rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality. I say that because the car 
passed an MOT only a few days before it was supplied to Ms H, and I think its therefore 
likely the condition of the steering and suspension was assessed and that it was considered 
roadworthy. I think a reasonable person would therefore consider slight wear to be 
acceptable wear and tear, especially given the car was already about eight years old at the 
time and had completed over 52,000 miles.
I understand Ms H thinks the identification of slight play in the ball joint suggests the MOT 
wasnt carried out thoroughly. Shes specifically referred to the fact that front tyres needed 
replacing before the MOT was conducted and shes suggested that may have alerted them 
to a problem with the ball joints. I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest that slight 
play was sufficiently serious to cause the car to fail the MOT, and, even if there was such 
evidence, I can see the MOT was completed by a third party MOT station and I think it would 
be unreasonable to suggest the dealership, or the business, were unreasonable to rely on 
that third partys approved expertise.
If Ms H has a complaint about the thoroughness of the MOT I think it can therefore only fairly 
be raised against the MOT station.
But here Im afraid I dont think BMF have been unreasonable to reject Ms Hs request to 
reject the car and terminate her agreement with them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman