DRN-3770414
The complaint
Mr W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include roadside 
assistance providers, complaints-handlers and others insofar as I hold RSA responsible for 
their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr W is (or was in late 2021 and early 2022) a vehicle technician. Mr W had a small electric 
car with an automatic transmission. He had the car covered on a group breakdown policy. 
RSA was the insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim.
On a Sunday in late October 2021, Mr W was on his way to see family. He was in a car park 
about a mile from his home when, unfortunately, his car wouldnt start. He tried to start the 
car, but he diagnosed that a small battery had failed, so he couldnt get the rear wheels to 
roll. In the early afternoon, he called for help under the policy.
RSA sent a succession of three different recovery vehicles over many hours, but RSA didnt 
recover Mr Ws car.
The next day Mr W bought a replacement battery, fixed the car and drove it home.
He complained to RSA that it had given him poor service and that it had damaged 
a jacking point of his car.
By a letter dated late December 2021, RSA said it couldnt send a final response, but Mr W 
had the right to bring his complaint to us. At around the same time, RSA offered £50.00 
compensation and £25.00 for the damaged jacking point.
Mr W brought his complaint to us in early January 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that RSAs 
compensation offer didnt reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr W had suffered. He 
recommended that RSA should:
1. pay Mr W £25.00 to cover the cost of the damaged jacking point; and
2. increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £150.00.
Mr W agreed with the investigators opinion.
RSA didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So the investigator asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W told RSA his cars rear wheels wouldnt roll so it needed a recovery vehicle that could 
lift it rather than drag it. Yet RSA sent a van, followed later by a slide-back vehicle. 
I accept Mr Ws statement that the second recovery attempt unnecessarily damaged a 
jacking point. I accept that Mr W was concerned that dragging the car onto the recovery 
vehicle might damage the cars transmission.
When the second recovery vehicle left, Mr W had been waiting in the cold and wet well into 
the evening. So he went home.
After 10 oclock that Sunday evening, RSA arranged to meet Mr W in the car park with 
another recovery vehicle. But  rather than a vehicle capable of lifting the car  the recovery 
vehicle was a second slide-back vehicle. So Mr W again left his car and went home.
I accept Mr Ws statement that he took the Monday day off work to source a new battery, 
tools and equipment, and to fix his car in the car park. But I doubt he wouldve been able to 
do all that on the Sunday afternoon at home if RSA had recovered his car. 
Mr W has said that he took a days annual leave on the Monday. But he has told us that he 
rang RSA at about 11:00 that morning to say that he had fixed and recovered the car. So I 
find it likely that he had the afternoon free.
RSA later tried to put things right with its offer.
Putting things right
RSA offered £25.00 for the damaged jacking point. So, notwithstanding that Mr W told us 
that a replacement part would cost about £16.00, I find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to 
pay £25.00 compensation for that.
RSA also offered compensation for distress and inconvenience. But Im not satisfied that this 
went far enough.
I keep in mind the duration and repetition of the delays in cold and wet weather. I conclude 
that RSA should pay Mr W (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £150.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr W:
1. £25.00 for the damage to his cars jacking point; and
2. (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman