DRN-2088618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that after they were given mortgage advice by HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
mortgage rates reduced and they were not told about this. They say that they are paying a 
higher rate than they couldve been and want HSBC to amend their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G spoke with HSBC regarding a remortgage. They were given advice and 
agreed to take a fixed rate mortgage. A mortgage offer was sent to them setting out the 
details of the mortgage in September 2019. 
The mortgage completed in March 2020 and Mr G contacted HSBC as hed noticed that 
lower rates were available on its website. He asked HSBC to put his mortgage on a lower 
rate. HSBC didnt agree as the mortgage had already completed. So, Mr and Mrs G 
complained to HSBC. They said HSBC had given them advice so shouldve contacted them 
when a lower rate became available.
HSBC said that its rates are available on its website, and it couldnt contact all consumers 
when rates change. Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs G referred the complaint to our service 
where one of our investigators looked into it.
Our investigator agreed that HSBC couldnt contact all its customers every time rates 
changed, so didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed. So, its been passed to me to review and issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs G are unhappy. They have a mortgage rate which is higher 
than those available when the mortgage completed. 
When Mr and Mrs G sought advice, this was done so based on the rates available at the 
time. Its reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs G were happy with the rates available given that 
they applied for and accepted the mortgage.
The mortgage offer clearly set out the rate and the monthly payment. And had Mr and Mrs G 
not been happy with this, they didnt have to proceed with an application.
When mortgage advice is given, a number of factors are taken into account as well as the 
interest rate available when making sure a mortgage is suitable. And it can only be done 
based on the rates available at the time. It isnt the role of a mortgage advisor to recommend 
the cheapest rate alone, but to recommend a product where all features are suitable for a 
borrower. And it seems this was the case here.
I think its widely known that mortgage rates do regularly vary, both increasing and 
decreasing. Based on the number of mortgage applications HSBC deals with, I dont think 
its reasonable to expect it to contact every customer who has a live application every time 
rates change. As HSBC points out, its rates are published on its website, and I think that is 
sufficient to make customers aware of changing rates. 
I know Mr G says that he wasnt told that he should check whether rates had changed or not. 
But given that hed accepted a rate that he was happy with, I dont think HSBC needed to tell 
him this. And had he had concerns about the rate being too high, I think he wouldve 
checked the website, and possibly other lenders, before allowing the mortgage to complete.
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs G will remain unhappy, I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong in this situation.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman