DRN-3217776
The complaint
Mrs P, through a claims management company (CMC), has complained about the advice 
she received from a business which is now the responsibility of Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix). She was advised to purchase a reviewable whole of life (WOL) policy, but feels 
the advice was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs P took out the WOL policy in March 1989. It was called a Living Assurance policy and 
had critical illness cover included. 
In 1993 Mrs P submitted a claim under the critical illness element of the policy. However this 
claim was declined by Phoenix as it found that the condition Mrs P was claiming for was a 
pre-existing one which hadnt been disclosed during her application for the policy.
Mrs P decided to cancel the policy after her claim was declined.
The CMC raised a complaint with Phoenix stating that the policy was unsuitable because 
Mrs P hadnt been made aware of alternative products, no assessment for long term 
affordability had been carried out and it wasnt clear why Mrs P needed cover. It also added 
that the adviser who sold Mrs P this policy was made aware of her pre-existing condition, but 
he failed to disclose this on the application form. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
found that while the policy may have had exclusions under the critical illness cover, overall, 
the policy was suitable for Mrs P and provided valuable cover.
The CMC disagreed with the investigator stating Mrs P never would have taken out the 
policy had any exclusions been applied from inception. And the fact that Mrs P surrendered 
the policy after her claim was declined supports this view. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the amount of time that has passed there is limited information from the point of sale. 
And as I obviously wasnt present at the meeting with Mrs P and the adviser, I cant 
comment on what was said by either party. So, in the absence of this I need to see what 
other evidence has been provided that supports either partys position and make my final 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened in light of that evidence.
At the time of taking the policy Mrs P was married and permanently employed. In making the 
complaint she has stated that she specifically wanted to take out critical illness cover. So, on 
first sight, a whole of life policy containing critical illness cover could possibly have been 
unsuitable if all Mrs P wanted was critical illness cover. 
However, standalone critical illness policies were unavailable in March 1989 and critical 
illness protection was only available as an additional part of a policy that provided life 
protection. While this started to change later in 1989 (at which point they would have been 
prohibitively expensive), its evident at the point Mrs P wanted cover, critical illness as a 
standalone policy wasnt readily available. 
As Mrs P mainly wanted critical illness cover it seems one of the only ways this could 
happen was for the critical illness cover to be provided as part of a policy which also 
provided life protection. I accept she could have taken this with an endowment protection 
plan rather than a whole of life plan, but the role of this Service isnt to look for the best 
advice possible; it is to assess whether the advice and recommendation provided was 
suitable.
Therefore, in this situation, given the time the policy was taken, I think taking the whole of life 
policy which also provided the critical illness protection Mrs P wanted was a suitable way of 
meeting her specific objectives. Overall, there was little else she could do if she wanted the 
critical illness protection at that time.  So, in light of this my view is that the WOL policy 
Phoenix recommended was largely suitable for Mrs P given her objectives and the time 
which it was taken out.
The CMC has said that Mrs P would never have taken the policy out if she knew conditions 
relating to her pre-existing condition were excluded from the outset of the policy. It feels the 
fact the cover was cancelled shortly after her claim was declined support this. It has also 
said that the adviser was aware of Mrs P pre-existing condition but had decided to not 
disclose this on the application.
Given the lack of information I dont know what was discussed when Mrs P took out the 
policy so I dont know for sure whether all exclusions were set out for her. However, given no 
medical issues were noted on the application form and she signed it to confirm she had read 
it and all the details were correct, its likely exclusions didnt need to be discussed because 
none were disclosed. Furthermore, I think its unlikely the adviser would have purposely not 
recorded Mrs Ps pre-existing conditions on the application form as this would have been 
against his obligations as an adviser. And as I have already said, Mrs P signed the 
application form confirming the information it contained was correct and so she had the 
opportunity then to add anything had she wanted to at the time.
As well as this, when considering Mrs Ps circumstances at the time she took the policy- 
married and contributing to the household income with the salary she received from her work 
 my view is that this kind of cover in this situation can be very valuable should the worst 
happen. So on balance, I dont think if the exclusion had been included that this alone would 
have been reason for her not to take up cover.
Mrs P did cancel the cover after her claim was declined, but given she had to stop working at 
the same time which would have reduced her income it isnt unreasonable that she would 
have wanted to cut back on costs and may not have seen this cover as a priority anymore.
Ultimately, the overall suitability is what I need to consider and the exclusion being applied 
would have likely been applied by any provider had Mrs P disclosed her full medical history. 
Critical illness is meant to provide cover for a variety of potential illnesses that prevent an 
individual from being able to continue work. When considering taking out a policy we dont know if well ever need the cover it provides, but it is prudent to want to protect oneself and 
family against that possibility. 
And while Mrs P may have had the exclusion applied, the policy still provided valuable 
benefits and protection against a variety of other illnesses and conditions, or even death. So 
in my view this didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs P nor do I think that she wouldnt 
have taken out the cover had the exclusion been applied from outset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman