DRN-2730714
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The Share Centre Limited sent her personal details and bank 
statement to another customer.
What happened
In the course of adding her bank details to her on-line account with The Share Centre, Mrs B 
sent a bank statement and a separate letter verifying her account details. Instead of posting 
the documents back to Mrs B, The Share Centre sent them to a third party in error. The third 
party contacted The Share Centre to tell them what had happened and returned the 
documents to them. 
The Share Centre wrote to Mrs B to tell her of the data breach and apologised. They 
enclosed the documents that had been returned by the third party and offered to change the 
account number on her account with them if she requested. Mrs B responded to say she 
was appalled by the breach and was concerned her data could be used fraudulently. 
After further representations from Mrs B the complaint was escalated, and The Share Centre 
issued a final response. They accepted they had been responsible for the data breach. And 
apologised they had failed to make it clear both the bank statement and the covering letter 
with Mrs Bs signature and bank details had been sent to the third party. The Share Centre 
offered £200 to reflect the distress the matter had caused Mrs B.
Mrs B didnt feel The Share Centre had recognised the impact of the data breach and 
brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for Mrs B 
and thought The Share Centre had recognised the errors they had made, and that the offer 
of £200 was fair and reasonable.
Mrs B didnt think our investigator had fully considered the impact on her and asked that an 
ombudsman decides her complaint. Mrs B added that she had since taken out a subscription 
with a credit refence agency to monitor activity on her accounts, and she doesnt feel the 
cost of this has been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B will be disappointed with my final decision, but I wont be asking The 
Share Centre to do anything else. I consider the remedy and apology offered are fair and 
reasonable and I will now explain why.
The Share Centre accept they sent the bank statement and Mrs Bs letter to a third party in 
error. They also accept they shouldve been clearer in explaining what documents were sent 
to the third party. Ive seen that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) considered The 
Share Centre inappropriately disclosed Mrs Bs data to a third party and told Mrs B she could 
seek redress or compensation through our service or the courts. So, it seems the only area 
that I must decide on is whether the remedy offered by The Share Centre was fair and 
reasonable.
The Share Centre sent the bank statement and letter to the third party by post. Im satisfied 
that when they were made aware of the error by the third party they wrote to Mrs B to 
explain the data breach in good time. However, during subsequent contacts with The Share 
Centre, Mrs B was told it was only the bank statement that had been sent to the third party. 
This wasnt the case and The Share Centre later apologised for providing the wrong 
information on several occasions to Mrs B in this regard.
Im satisfied The Share Centres failure to explain precisely what had been sent to the third 
party wouldve caused Mrs B some distress. I dont consider an apology is enough as The 
Share Centre missed several opportunities to clarify to Mrs B her original letter had been 
sent in error. 
I have empathy with Mrs B that she has been left wondering whether the actions of The 
Share Centre exposed her to fraudulent activity, particularly as she says she experienced 
this in the past. Ive taken on board Mrs Bs comment that she now pays a monthly fee for a 
credit reference agency to highlight any suspicious activity. I note that there has been no 
suspicious activity reported, but I can understand that Mrs B wouldve suffered some distress 
and worry since the data breach occurred. 
The initial data breach itself wouldve caused Mrs B some distress and worry. And the failure 
to make it clear the original breach included a letter with bank details and Mrs Bs signature 
on it wouldve added to this. Mrs B subscribes to a credit reference agency and there is no 
evidence her personal details have been used fraudulently, and the regular reports provided 
will provided some reassurance after her previous experience. Ive taken into account that 
the third party who received the documents contacted The Share Centre and returned the 
original documents to them, which in my view makes it less likely the documents would be 
used fraudulently. So, I therefore consider the offer of £200 to reflect the distress Mrs B 
suffered, and an apology, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive noted that Mrs B asked at what point she can decide to take legal action for the data 
breach. If Mrs B rejects my final decision then she can take further action as my decision is 
only binding on both parties if she accepts it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking The Share Centre Limited to do anything else in 
respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman