DRN-3585148
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Sterling Trust Professional Ltd (STP) to transfer 
the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S held deferred benefits in the BSPS from a period of employment between 2003 and 
2013. 
In March 2016, Mr S former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members of the scheme referred to possible outcomes 
regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr S former employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr S obtained a summary of the transfer value of his deferred scheme benefits on 9 June 
2017. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £233,731.30.
STP says Mr S approached it in June 2017 for advice about whether to transfer his BSPS 
benefits. 
STP completed some questionnaires with Mr S to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Mr S was 36, in good health, employed full time, married with 
three dependent children. Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with a remaining term of 
approximately 19 years but no other recorded debts. And their combined household income 
was recorded as exceeding their outgoings. 
In addition to his BSPS benefits Mr S was also a member of his new employers pension 
scheme. This was a defined contribution (DC) pension.
In one of the questionnaires STP noted that Mr S planned retirement age was 65. And that 
he was interested in moving his pension because there had been underfunding issues and 
there was the potential for it to move to the PPF. So, it said Mr S wanted to have this fund 
under his control. It also said he preferred the option of lump sum death benefits and 
flexibility was important to him, while saying his membership of his new employers DC 
pension mitigated the risk to him.
However, in another of the questionnaires, completed a couple of weeks later, Mr S ticked a 
statement saying that the BSPS benefits were a major part of his retirement provision and 
should be protected as far as reasonably possible. Although later in the same form it was 
indicated he was willing to take risk in the hope of good returns. This questionnaire also 
noted that Mr S would like to retire at age 60. 
STP said that Mr S expected to need an income of approximately £25,000 per year in 
retirement.
STP also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium or a six on a scale of one to ten. However, it said Mr S had said he preferred to be 
considered as having a medium attitude to risk, or a five on the same scale.
On 9 August 2017, STP sent Mr S its recommendation. It advised Mr S to transfer the 
benefits from the BSPS to an alternative pension. It said this advice was predominantly 
based on STPs belief that the annual rate of return required to match the benefits the BSPS 
would provide at retirement, the critical yield, was achievable. And because a higher level of 
tax-free cash (TFC) would be available and a move to the PPF, which was a strong 
possibility, concerned Mr S and would mean his options at retirement were restricted. STP 
said Mr S preferred the flexibility and control of a personal pension plan, the lump sum death 
benefits this offered and wanted to access the maximum possible TFC from this pension. It 
also said he considered the CETV to be good, as it had increased compared to what had 
been offered previously.
On 11 August 2017 it was formally confirmed that the RAA was progressing.
STP has provided a copy of a letter from Mr S dated 15 August 2017, which said he wished 
to proceed with a transfer.
STP sent Mr S another letter, dated 22 August 2017. This noted the announcement that the 
separation of the BSPS from Mr S former employer would proceed. The letter confirmed 
STPs recommendation was that Mr S transfer his benefits away from the BSPS. The letter 
went on to outline that STP recommended that Mr S move to a SIPP with a specific provider. 
It also recommended that his funds be invested with a named discretionary fund manager 
(DFM).
Application forms were signed on the same day to enable the transfer to proceed. 
On 25 August 2017, an update was issued by the trustees of the BSPS about transfer 
values. This said that the trustees expected to be able to provide improved CETVs to 
members when the steps in the RAA were carried out  including a large lump sum payment 
into the scheme.
Mr S emailed STP on 1 September 2017, referencing this update, and said hed like to await 
this new valuation, as he understood it was likely to increase, before proceeding.
The steps of the RAA were completed, and the BSPS separated from Mr S employer, on 
11 September 2017. With an announcement confirming members would now have to choose 
between joining the BSPS2 or remaining in the BSPS and moving to the PPF. Updated 
transfer values were also sent to members.
I understand that Mr S benefits were transferred to the SIPP provider recommended by STP 
in November 2017. The amount transferred was £241,352.98.
Mr S complained to STP in 2021, via his professional representative. He said he thought a transfer was unsuitable based on his circumstances at the time and should not have been 
recommended as it was unlikely his SIPP would be able to match the guaranteed benefits 
that had been given up.
STP didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said a transfer gave the potential for growth, provided 
Mr S flexibility while securing the transfer value and provided greater death benefits. STP 
said Mr S could accept the risks involved, made an informed decision to transfer and indeed 
had wanted to transfer. So, it thought the advice was suitable.
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint. He thought the advice was unsuitable as Mr S wasnt likely to 
improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. And he didnt think Mr S 
had a genuine need for any of the other benefits of transferring STP referred to, such that 
the reduction in benefits would be in his interests. The Investigator though, if suitable advice 
had been given, Mr S wouldve joined the BSPS2. So, he recommended that STP 
compensate him for any losses the unsuitable advice had led to and pay him £500 for the 
distress caused. 
STP didnt agree. It said it wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer would be in Mr S 
best interests. Instead, the adviser was simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure 
the advice was suitable for him. And it said the Investigator had used a significant degree of 
hindsight, which it thought was unreasonable. STP said the Investigator had placed too 
much weight on the critical yield. And it said the discount rate which the Investigator had 
referenced wasnt something it was required to consider. It said it still believed that the 
advice was suitable, based on Mr S circumstances. And STP also said Mr S had made a 
fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer, which the Investigator hadnt considered, 
and which it felt was crucial. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
I explained to both parties recently that I didnt think the award for distress and 
inconvenience the Investigator had recommended was fair. And I thought an award of £200 
was more appropriate. Mr S representative disagreed and said they believed the amount 
suggested by the Investigator was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of STP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
STP says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr S. I agree that under COBS, STP was required to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr S was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But it 
was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his best 
interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that STP should only have considered 
a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S best 
interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that STP was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield was 6.56% to match the benefits Mr S would 
have been entitled to under the BSPS at age 65. Or, to match benefits the PPF 
wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 5.02% if he took a full pension or 4.77% if 
he took the maximum TFC and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered. The 
regulator required STP to calculate this and consider the cost of the guarantees 
being given up. So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant 
consideration here.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. STP has said it was not 
required to consider these discount rates. But the regulator required businesses to 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under 
a personal pension, using reasonable assumptions. And the discount rates give a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable for a typical investor. And so, while STP was not obliged to use the 
discount rate, it would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption to consider. And STP 
was free to consider it.
I dont agree with STP that the critical yield of 6.56% was likely to be achievable and 
sustainable for 28 years to retirement. And, while it has referred to past performance 
of the recommended investment, as STP is aware, this is no guarantee for future 
performance. And I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard 
projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
Given Mr S recorded medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.7% for 28 years 
to retirement  if he retired at age 65  and the regulators middle projection rate, I 
think Mr S was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower 
value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS. And I also think the chances of him exceeding the benefits the PPF wouldve provided were low and at 
best it seems more likely hed have achieved the same level of benefits  which in 
my view wasnt worth the significant additional risk involved. Particularly as a period 
of extended poor performance was likely to see him be worse off.
Despite the announcements made during the advice process, STP undertook no 
analysis of the benefits the BSPS2 was likely to provide, nor did it revisit its advice 
when this further information came to light. And I think it shouldve done, particularly 
when Mr S asked to wait until hed received a new valuation of his benefits.
Given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits 
the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be between those of the 
BSPS and the PPF. And so, I also think it was unlikely Mr S wouldve improved on 
the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve guaranteed to provide him at age 65 by 
transferring.
STP doesnt appear to have undertaken any analysis of the benefits that Mr S 
couldve been entitled to under the DB scheme, in any guise, if he took early 
retirement. The BSPS2 and the PPF wouldve both allowed early retirement. And, 
given it recorded that Mr S might like to retire at 60, I think this analysis shouldve 
been carried out, as this information wouldve been important to allow Mr S to make 
an informed decision. 
Critical yields for early retirement were likely to be higher than those for retiring at 
age 65, given benefits would have to be paid for longer and the investment horizon to 
retirement was shorter. The discount rate also tends to be lower for a shorter period 
to retirement. For example, here the discount rate for 23 years to retirement  if Mr S 
retired at 60  was 4.6%. So, I think Mr S was even more likely to receive lower 
benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he retired early. 
STP said Mr S was interested in the flexibility transferring would provide him, the 
alternative death benefits and in having the pension under his control. As Ill explain, I 
dont think these things meant a transfer was in his best interests. But Id also add 
that STPs role wasnt that of wish fulfilment or to put in place what Mr S mightve 
thought he wanted when seeking advice. It was to give him objective advice about 
what was in his best interests.
Mr S was aged 36 at the time of the advice. Two different questionnaires noted two 
different ages at which he thought he might retire  65 and 60  both of which were a 
significant time away (over 23 years). I think that serves to emphasise that Mr Ss 
retirement plans and what retirement would look like for him were unknown at the 
time of the advice. Which I dont think was surprising. But because of this I think it 
was too soon for Mr S to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. Particularly when he had the option of joining the BSPS2 which wouldve 
meant he would retain the option to transfer out at a later date if his circumstances 
required it.
STP said Mr S wanted access to the maximum possible TFC from his pension. But 
there was nothing recorded in the fact find to suggest he had a need for access to a 
large lump sum from his pension. So, Im satisfied access to TFC was a nice to have 
rather than a genuine need. And in any event, he couldve taken TFC under the 
BSPS2 or the PPF.
I also cant see that Mr S needed the ability to vary the income he received from this 
pension in retirement. The expected annual pension the DB scheme was due to provide was less than the annual income he thought hed need in retirement  
although again Id question how accurate this estimate of his need could be given 
how far from retirement Mr S was. But Mr S was a member of his new employers DC 
scheme, in which he expected to build up additional pension benefits. And it is 
reasonable to expect hed have continued to build pension benefits, either through 
this scheme or with another employer if he moved roles, until he retired. So, he 
wouldve had these and his DB scheme benefits in retirement, to meet his needs. 
The DC scheme benefits wouldve been accessible flexibly. So, in my view, retaining 
his guaranteed DB scheme benefits as a solid base for his retirement income while 
using his DC scheme flexibly if necessary until he later received his state pension, 
was a more appropriate way to meet his needs than exposing his DB scheme to 
unnecessary risk. 
STP has said that the DC scheme meant Mr S could afford to risk his DB scheme 
benefits. Notwithstanding that in response to the complaint STP seems to have 
overstated the value of the DC scheme benefits at the time of the advice  as the fact 
find said Mr S was a recent member and the fund value was only £10,000 at that 
stage  I dont think this meant a transfer was in his interests. The DC pension was 
already subject to market risk. And I dont think Mr S holding this pension meant it 
was in his interests to also put his DB scheme benefits at risk, for flexibility he didnt 
need. Particularly when, as Ive said, he was unlikely to improve on his DB scheme 
benefits by transferring.
STP said Mr S was interested in the lump sum death benefits of a personal pension, 
to ensure that a large sum was left to his family in the event of his death. But the 
priority here was to advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve 
been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr S drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr S might have thought it would. 
In addition, the fact-find indicated that Mr and Mrs S already had quite significant life 
cover in place. And Mr S DC scheme benefits wouldve already provided some lump 
sum benefits. So, it is unclear why further sums were required. But if Mr S had 
wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, life insurance was an available 
alternative. 
The recommendation indicated that the cost of a whole of life policy had been 
discussed but discounted based on cost. But basing the quote on the transfer value 
essentially assumed Mr S would pass away on day one following the transfer, which 
isnt realistic. The starting point ought to have been to ask how much more Mr S 
ideally wanted to leave to his family. And this couldve been considered on a whole of 
life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little 
evidence STP did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. And ultimately STP should not have 
encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr S desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. And the recommendation seems to have been based on a DFM managing it on 
his behalf  at additional annual cost. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr S  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
Mr S may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But it was STPs role to objectively address those concerns. During the 
course of the advice and before the transfer was completed there were a number of 
key announcements that all pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if 
this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr S with guaranteed income and the 
option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr S was unlikely to improve on these benefits by 
transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and 
I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best 
interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr S best interest to give up his 
DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
STP says that Mr S made an informed decision to transfer. And it has said that the 
Investigator did not have enough regard for the letter Mr S sent it, dated 15 August 2017, 
explaining why he wanted to proceed. So, Ive thought carefully about whether Mr S would 
always have looked to proceed with the transfer. But the handwritten letter seems to repeat 
the stock motives for transferring (flexibility, control, lump sum death benefits) that STP had 
already listed in its initial recommendation to Mr S. And seems, in my view, to be written as a 
repetition of those things, which I cant rule out as being at STPs request.
I can see that STP did give information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it 
made its recommendation. But ultimately, it advised Mr S to transfer. And I think he relied on 
that advice. And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr S wouldve insisted on 
transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr S received from STP was 
unsuitable.
STP recommended that Mr S use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable, it follows that 
I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr S should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would not have 
had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Mr S had over 23 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr S wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had he received 
suitable advice not to transfer, I think Mr S wouldve opted into the BSPS2. And I think STP 
should compensate him on this basis.
Our Investigator recommended that STP make a payment for the distress caused to Mr S. 
And I agree that STP should compensate Mr S for the distress this has caused. But I dont 
think the level of award the Investigator suggested is reasonable here. Mr S representative has said STP has caused him worry and sleepless nights by putting his 
entire pension at risk. I accept that Mr S has likely been worried to find, when he first 
discussed matters with his representative, that the advice might not have been suitable for 
him. The advice related to Mr S pension, which will play a part in his longer-term financial 
planning. And given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this 
advice, I dont doubt he has been concerned. 
But I dont think he has been caused ongoing distress from the point of the advice to making 
the complaint  as that appears to be the first point at which he had, or expressed, any 
concerns about the advice. I also cant see that Mr S has been caused inconvenience to that 
point or since, beyond having to complain, which we wouldnt normally make an award for. In 
addition, Mr S was only 36 at the time he received advice and 40 at the time he complained 
 so still a long way from retiring. I dont think he was therefore likely to have any concrete 
plans relating to retirement that couldve been thrown into doubt. And, as documented at the 
time of the advice, this wasnt his only pension provision. 
So, while I think the worry and distress he has experienced, which wouldn't have occurred 
but for the advice that is the subject of this complaint, was likely to be more than the level of 
frustration and annoyance he would usually experience on a day-to-day basis, I think an 
award of £200 for this is appropriate here.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
STP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
STP should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what STP based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, STP should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his SIPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts STPs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, STP may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr S 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, STP should pay Mr S £200 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sterling Trust 
Professional Ltd to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Sterling Trust Professional Ltd pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sterling Trust 
Professional Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman