DRN-2089053
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr F says NewDay Ltd trading as Opus (NewDay) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator thought Mr Fs complaint should be upheld but NewDay didnt agree. So, the 
complaint came to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 1 July 2020, I quote from it 
below so forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons 
why I was minded not to uphold Mr Fs complaint about the miss-sale of the PPI. 
In the letter accompanying the provisional decision I asked the parties to the complaint to let 
me have any further representations that they wished me to consider by 31 July 2020. And 
we sent a further copy of the provisional decision on 21 July 2020 and reminded both parties 
of the deadline. But, at the time of writing, I have not received any substantive further 
submission from either party. I have also not received any request for a time extension for a 
further submission to be made. I note that we sent the decision and the follow up copy of the 
decision to the recognised contact addresses. And I consider that sufficient time has been 
given for a response had Mr F or NewDay wished to make one. So, I am proceeding to my 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Im currently minded that the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
I think NewDay made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because Ive been given a sample copy of the application form NewDay says 
would have been completed at the time. I can see that this included the option to take out 
the PPI or to decline it. Neither party has been able to provide a copy of the application form 
that would have been completed during the sale. Its not straightforward trying to decide on 
cases when key documents from the time of the sale are missing as they are here. However, 
considering these events happened over 22 years ago, its not surprising that I dont have all 
the documents from the time of the sale.
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows NewDay didnt make Mr F aware the PPI was 
optional. And considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So, having considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that NewDay wouldve made
Mr F aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he may 
not remember that now, many years later.
NewDay didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information NewDay gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. In saying that Ive 
noted the adjudicator thought the terms of the policy made it hard for someone who was self 
employed to make a claim. The policy document was an undated one that the business 
though most likely pertained at the time of the sale. Ive looked at our database and found a 
policy document that is from the insurer that NewDay told us was the correct insurer at the 
time of the sale. And it is dated for the year before the sale. So, on balance, I believe that 
this is the document that most closely pertains to the policy that was sold to Mr F. It contains 
no restrictions on how claims may be made for a self-employed consumer.
And Ive considered that Mr F was not entitled to sick pay, being self-employed, and that Mr 
F had only relatively modest other means to rely on in the event he was too ill to work, or if 
he became unemployed. So as this policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in those 
events, I think the policy would have been useful to him if something went wrong.
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr F off taking 
out the cover.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Fs 
complaint and I make no award against NewDay Ltd trading as Opus. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18September2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman