DRN-2778246
The complaint
Mr N complains that his chargeback claim for dental work that didnt take place was declined 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
On 31 May 2019 Mr N paid £5,000 for dental work that was due to take place in March 2020. 
But, due to the pandemic, the dental surgery Mr N paid was closed and the treatment was 
postponed. Ultimately, the dental surgery went out of business and in January 2021 Mr N 
raised a chargeback claim with Barclays to try and recover the money he paid. 
Barclays declined the chargeback claim as it wasnt made within the time limits set out in the 
scheme rules. As a result, Barclays said it couldnt refund Mr Ns payment. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr N asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr N is upset. Mr N paid a lot of money for dental work that hasnt 
been carried out. But I can only look at Barclays actions when considering this complaint 
and whether it dealt with Mr Ns chargeback claim fairly. 
In this case, Barclays says the chargeback claim had to be raised within the time limits set 
out in the scheme rules. The most relevant time limit is 120 days from the date of the 
payment. Card holders can also raise a chargeback claim within 120 days of the date they 
expected to receive the service paid for. But, there is an overall time limit of 540 days from 
the date of the payment in question. That meant Mr N had a maximum of 540 days from 31 
May 2019 to raise a chargeback claim. 
Ive looked at the dates and Barclays contact notes. Whilst I understand Mr N will be 
disappointed in what Ive found, I agree with the investigator that the chargeback claim 
wasnt raised within the relevant time limits. The time limit of 540 days from the date of the 
transaction means the latest point Mr N couldve raised a chargeback claim was November 
2020. But Mr N didnt ask Barclays to raise a chargeback claim until January 2021. Im 
satisfied the claim wasnt raised in line with the time limits set out in the chargeback rules 
which means Barclays couldnt refund his payment. 
I understand Mr N has told us he discussed the issue with Barclays in May or June 2020 but 
didnt raise a chargeback claim or raise a dispute. Barclays has no record of talking to Mr N 
about his chargeback before January 2021. And Mr N has confirmed no chargeback claim or 
dispute was formally raised at that time. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr N but as his chargeback claim wasnt raised in line with the 
scheme time limits, Im satisfied Barclays decision not to refund his payment was 
reasonable. As Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with this complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman