DRN-4367432
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Better Borrow) is holding her 
responsible for a debt arising from a loan she says she didnt apply for, or benefit from.
What happened
Miss T started investing in cryptocurrency through, what she believed to be, genuine
investment traders. Unfortunately, this was part of a sophisticated scam. Miss T says she 
was coerced into taking out a loan with a business Ill call L in order to fund the investment, 
but she says she later became aware that the scammers had also applied for two other 
loans in her name, one with a business Ill call Z and one with Better Borrow, which is the 
subject of this decision.
When Miss T became aware that she had been the victim of a scam, she contacted Better 
Borrow to explain that she had not agreed to take out this loan. Better borrow acknowledged 
that Miss T had fallen victim to a fraud but found she should still be held liable for the debt. It 
said that Miss T had enabled the scammers to take out the loan by sharing personal 
information and that she must have been aware that the loan had been taken out in her 
name.
Miss T was unhappy with Better Borrows response, so she asked our service to look into 
things again. Miss T told our service that she hadnt authorised a third-party to take out the 
loan on her behalf and that she had no involvement in the onward transfer of the loan funds. 
She therefore felt that being held responsible for the loan was unreasonable. 
An Investigator looked into the evidence submitted by both parties and concluded that 
Miss T shouldnt be held responsible for the debt. They did not consider that Miss T had 
been aware of the loan application and so did not feel Better Borrow could reasonably hold 
her liable for the debt. So the Investigator concluded that Better Borrow should write off the 
loan, refund any payments made and remove any reporting of it from Miss Ts credit file.
Better Borrow disagreed with the Investigators assessment of the complaint. It maintained 
that Miss T had been aware of the loan application, and noted that the loan application 
included a series of detailed questions about Miss Ts financial situation (based on her credit 
file) which would be very difficult for a third party to answer on her behalf.
As Better Borrow disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the complaint was passed to 
me for review. I issued my provisional decision on this case on 19 September 2023. In that 
decision I explained why I did not intend to uphold this complaint  because I considered that 
the evidence suggested Miss T was aware that this loan had been applied for in her name. 
Better Borrow agreed with my findings, Miss T did not. She responded setting out more 
detail about what had happened, and maintained that she had not been aware that a loan 
had been applied for in her name at Better Borrow.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated 
consumer credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from the use 
of the credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors 
agent.
So, in simple terms, Miss T cant be held liable for a debt that another person, not acting on 
her behalf, took out. Taking the above into consideration, I must conclude  on the balance 
of probabilities  whether the loan was applied for by Miss T, or an agent acting on her 
behalf.
Ive thought very carefully about this, and have looked closely at all the evidence weve 
received about what happened here. This includes evidence from the related cases Miss T 
has referred to our service about the other loans that were taken out and about the bank 
accounts that the funds were moved through by the scammers.
I also want to make it clear that I dont doubt that Miss T has been the victim of a 
sophisticated and unpleasant scam. There is no question in my mind that she was misled 
and manipulated by the scammers. But even so, with the evidence Ive seen, I consider that 
it is more likely than not that Miss T was aware of the Better Borrow loan when it was applied 
for, and on that basis I dont think I can fairly say that she should not be held liable for the 
outstanding balance.
I say this because of the following evidence:
-Messages between Miss T and the scammer from 22 July 2022  two days after this 
loan was taken out  where she refers to multiple loans and her belief that the 
scammers would be paying them back, and from 26 July 2022 where Miss T again 
refers to the scammers repaying the three loans. These messages do not suggest 
that Miss T was surprised by the existence of any of the loans, just that she was 
expecting the scammers to pay them back.
-Ive found on one of Miss Ts other complaints that she was more likely than not 
aware of the loan taken out with Z, and she has confirmed she was aware of the loan 
taken out with L. It seems very unlikely that she would be aware of the first and last 
loans taken out but not aware of this loan.
-The kinds of questions that Better Borrow has said would have been asked when this 
loan was applied for would have required very detailed knowledge of Miss Ts 
financial situation, Miss T has not said she shared that level of detail with the 
scammers.
Each of these points alone may not have indicated conclusively that Miss T was aware of the 
Better Borrow loan, but looking at the overall picture Im satisfied that the evidence Ive seen 
from around the time this loan was taken out suggests that it is more likely than not Miss T 
was aware of the loan. I dont doubt that she was manipulated into allowing it to be taken 
out, but that is not the same as not being aware of the loan at all.With this in mind I consider that this loan was most likely taken out by a third party acting as 
Miss Ts agent, so it follows that she can be held liable for the debt under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. I do appreciate that she has not had the benefit of these funds as they were 
ultimately sent to a scammer, but I dont think I can fairly say that Miss T should not be held 
liable for repaying the loan when Im satisfied that she was most likely aware it was being 
taken out in her name. I also consider it is fair and reasonable that she be liable for the 
interest associated with the loan, not just the capital, as she would have been aware that the 
loan would likely include an element of interest. And with all of this in mind, I also think it is 
fair for the status of the loan to be reflected on Miss Ts credit file.
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss T, but for the reasons Ive explained, I do not 
currently intend to uphold this complaint.
Better Borrow has confirmed it agrees with my findings and has no further comment to 
make. Miss T has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision, and I appreciate 
her taking the time to do so.
I want to reiterate that there is no doubt here that Miss T was the victim of a nasty scam, but 
that doesnt mean that she isnt responsible for lending that was taken out to fund that scam 
if she was aware that lending was being taken out for her benefit. 
Miss T has said that when referring to multiple loans she was referring to the fact that the 
website she was aware shed taken the loan with L out on referred to multiple loan 
companies. But the messages Ive seen dont make sense in that context.
In my opinion, the messages between Miss T and the scammers do suggest that she was 
aware of multiple loans being taken out by 22 July 2022 at the latest. So if, as Miss T says, 
she wasnt originally aware the Better Borrow loan and the loan with Z were being applied 
for, then I have to question why she didnt raise any concerns about this until the scammers 
didnt pay the loan back as promised. I would think that if a loan had been taken out without 
her permission, then that would be of significant concern to her, I cant understand why she 
would not have realised something might be wrong immediately.
I understand that Miss T says she did not approve this loan being taken out, she says that 
the scammers would have had all the information they needed to take it out without her 
knowledge. But I remain satisfied that the evidence Ive seen suggests she more than likely 
was aware it was being taken out on her behalf. So given that I think she agreed for it to be 
taken out, it follows that I remain satisfied it is reasonable for Better Borrow to hold her liable 
for the loan. 
Miss T has asked whether Better Borrow would consider accepting a reduced amount in 
settlement of the loan, but that is a conversation she needs to have with Better Borrow. I will 
not be requiring Better Borrow to write off any of the balance. It follows that I also consider 
that it is reasonable for the loan to remain on Miss Ts credit file, as that needs to be an 
accurate reflection of what she owes.
I know this wont be what Miss T was hoping to hear, and Im sorry we couldnt help her 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman