DRN-3991729
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Sainsburys Bank Plc in relation to the 
expiry of a promotional interest rate.
What happened
Mr B held a credit card account with Sainsburys Bank. When he opened the account, it was 
subject to a promotional interest rate of 0% on purchases. Mr B says he made one big 
purchase and made repayments each month over a couple of years. He says he wanted to 
clear the balance before the promotional rate ended, but he wasnt sure when it would end. 
Mr B says he tried to call Sainsburys Bank several times but was kept waiting for over an 
hour so gave up on the calls. He contacted it through its online messaging service in 
September 2022 and asked whether he would be charged any interest on the remaining 
balance. Sainsburys Bank said that any promotions, including their end date, would be 
shown on Mr Bs online statement. Mr B says this response wasnt helpful and his 
statements werent clear.
In November, he noticed that interest had been applied to his remaining balance. He says he 
didnt receive any notification from Sainsburys Bank that the promotion was coming to an 
end and that this information is only included on his May statement.
Mr B called Sainsburys Bank to query this and complain. During the call, he wanted to make 
a payment over the phone to clear the balance and close the account. He says he couldnt 
do this online because the system wasnt working properly at the time. He says that the 
agent refused to take the payment and wouldnt close the account. Mr B had lost his credit 
card and the agent said he would have to wait for a new one to arrive before making 
payment. Mr B wasnt happy about this as interest would continue to accrue in the 
meantime. He has since paid off the balance. He says he also made a request for his 
account to be closed but nothing has happened.
Mr B is also unhappy about a late payment fee applied to his account by mistake in January 
2022. Sainsburys Bank refunded this, but Mr B says that the system isnt designed for the 
benefit of the customer, but to raise money for Sainsburys Bank through fees and charges.
Mr B asked the agent on the call to raise a complaint about these issues. He wanted 
Sainsburys Bank to refund the interest and pay him some compensation for inconvenience. 
He asked for confirmation of the complaint details by email but was unhappy that 
Sainsburys Bank could only send this by post. He added that issue to the complaint.
When Sainsburys Bank responded, it said that details of the 0% interest promotion had 
been included on Mr Bs monthly statements. It said it had also sent him an email to tell him 
the offer was coming to an end. It said that interest had been applied correctly after the 
promotion ended, so it couldnt be refunded. It didnt address the other issues in the final 
response letter. 
Mr B remained unhappy about the situation and asked this service to look at the complaint. 
Our Investigator upheld it on the basis that Sainsburys Bank hadnt addressed all of Mr Bs 
concerns. He recommended that it pay Mr B compensation of £50. 
Mr B wasnt happy with our Investigators view. And Sainsburys Bank disagreed with it, 
saying that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and isnt within the remit of this 
service. The complaint has therefore been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr Bs statements for the whole of 2022. I find that all of them up to and including 
the July statement contained a section about the promotional interest rate, stating that it 
would expire on 25 July 2022. The July statement showed that estimated interest for the 
following month would be around £9. This figure had been shown as £0 on all the previous 
statements. So, I think it was clear from the statements when the promotional rate would end 
and when interest would start to be charged.
Mr B isnt happy that Sainsburys Bank simply referred him to his statements, rather than 
telling him whether the promotion had expired, when he contacted it through the messaging 
service. I realise it would have been more convenient for Mr B if Sainsburys Bank had given 
him a date. But I dont think it was unreasonable to refer him to the statements. 
Mr B had access to online banking and Sainsburys Bank sent him an email every month to 
tell him when his statement was available. Mr B didnt log into online banking between March 
and September 2022, so he wouldnt have seen the statements. But thats not Sainsburys 
Banks fault. Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank provided the necessary information to Mr B 
in his requested format. Mr B had a responsibility to view that information so that he was 
aware of the status of his account. 
I find that Sainsburys Bank sent an email to Mr B on 19 July about the expiry of the 
promotion. Mr B says he didnt receive this. I havent seen anything which explains why he 
didnt receive it, but Im satisfied it was sent.
I find that Sainsburys Bank was entitled to charge interest on the outstanding balance after 
the promotion expired. I think it applied the interest correctly here, so Im not going to ask it 
to refund any interest.
Turning to the other aspects of the complaint, Ive listened to the call from November 2022. 
When Mr B said he wanted to pay the balance over the phone, the agent said they couldnt 
take payment because the call was recorded. They offered to transfer Mr B to the automated 
payment system and said he would need his credit card to hand as well as the card he 
wanted to pay with. Mr B said he couldnt find his credit card. The agent offered to send him 
a new one, but Mr B didnt want to incur further interest while waiting for a new card to arrive. 
Sainsburys Bank has confirmed that, as all calls are recorded, it cant take payments over 
the phone as that would mean the customers card details would be recorded. So, its agents 
dont have the facility to take payments. I think thats reasonable. Its also in line with what 
the agent told Mr B on the call. The agent offered Mr B an alternative way to pay there and 
then, using the automated payment system. The reason he couldnt do that was because he 
had lost his credit card, which wasnt Sainsburys Banks fault. I can understand that Mr B didnt want to incur further interest while waiting for a new card. 
But I dont think Sainsburys Bank could have done anything differently here as it didnt know 
until that point that hed lost the card. In any event, I note that Mr B made the payment 
through the app that same day. So I dont think he suffered any detriment as a result of 
being unable to pay over the phone.
Mr B says that nothing happened after he asked for the account to be closed. From the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the account was closed in late November.
In relation to the late payment fee, Sainsburys Bank accepts that this was applied in error. It 
refunded the fee within a few days and says there was no impact on Mr Bs credit file. It says 
that the refund was completed automatically. I havent seen evidence of any contact from Mr 
B about it at the time. I realise that hes unhappy about the issue, but Sainsburys Bank took 
steps promptly to correct the error and I dont find that there was any adverse impact on Mr 
B. So, Im not going to ask Sainsburys Bank to do anything more about it.
Finally, in relation to the method of communication about the complaint, the agent told Mr B 
on the call that she couldnt send out emails. Sainsburys Bank has confirmed that its call 
centre agents dont have access to email. But the response to the complaint, from the 
Customer Relations team, was sent by email in line with Mr Bs preferences.
In conclusion, I dont think Sainsburys Bank acted unfairly in relation to the above issues. 
But it should have addressed all of them when it responded to the complaint. The issues 
about the late payment fee and the taking of payments certainly relate to the financial 
service which Sainsburys Bank was providing. Responding (or not responding) to queries or 
concerns about them is part of the customer service associated with the provision of that 
financial service. So, Im satisfied that I can look at that here.
I think its likely Mr B would have brought the complaint to this service anyway. But I think its 
fair to say that the lack of response to all aspects of the complaint added to his frustration 
and caused him some inconvenience. I think it would be fair for Sainsburys Bank to pay him 
£50 in recognition of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr B 
compensation of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman