DRN-3965764
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr C bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
werent.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
15-year loan term. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Mr C agreed with our investigators view of the complaint, but Shawbrook didnt respond. As 
the case couldnt be resolved, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint and as 
neither party has disagreed with this, I dont need to consider it any further. 
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. 
Mr C says he was led to believe the system would be self-funding and that the benefit 
received from the system would cover the cost of the finance. The quote provided by the 
supplier formed the basis of the sale, including the meeting where this was discussed.
Theres a section headed Repayment options with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table has an error in it and 
has a monthly repayment amount of £1.45 per month rather than Mr Cs actual monthly 
payment of £98.41. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
While I can see the table had an error in it, it does appear to suggest that the system will 
provide a profit of £70.57 from the first year  with the profit increasing year on year. This 
corroborates Mr Cs testimony. He says he was told the system benefits would outweigh the 
cost, which is also reflected in the paperwork. 
The credit agreement shows the total loan repayments over 15-years would amount to
£17,713.80. The quote included a table showing the annual cumulative benefits of the
system. By the end of year 15, (i.e. the loan term) the table shows the benefits would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
In light of this, it seems Mr C was told the system would be self-funding from the
start and would pay for itself within the loan term. I think Mr C, who isnt an expert in 
understanding solar panels generation and benefit, would be dependent on the sales advisor 
taking him through the sales documents  and he was entitled to rely on what he was being 
told and what he saw on the paperwork. And both his testimony and the paperwork suggest 
the system was represented as being self-funding. 
So overall, I think the evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place 
and Mr C was not given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be 
self-funding and would equate to an additional cost for him.
The system is generating electricity in line with the quote, but Mr C says the system is not 
self-funding and that was a misrepresentation. Shawbrook has provided nothing to dispute 
this (such as a calculation showing its benefits so far and its projected future benefits). So, I 
think it is reasonable to uphold this complaint on the basis there was a misrepresentation 
and it likely caused Mr C a loss. However, when calculating the redress set out below, it is 
possible that no payment will be due to Mr C if the calculation shows that the system will be 
self-funding as set out in the quote.
Given that I think the system was mis-represented to Mr C, and he wasnt given clear 
information, I think a court would likely find the relationship in question unfair. Overall, I think 
that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Shawbrook did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar panels over a 15-year period, so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. As explained above, should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr C by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, as the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Cs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr C, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr C, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman