DRN-3180730
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has not fully compensated him following it upholding 
his loan payment protection insurance (PPI) mis-selling complaint.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known to both parties  
so I havent set out all of the detail here. Briefly:
In 2019 Lloyds upheld Mr Bs loan PPI mis-selling complaint and it paid him compensation of 
around £440. The PPI in question was a single premium policy taken out on the first loan of 
a series of four loans Mr B took out between 1993 and 1999.
Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because he said Lloyds 
had made a number of errors in calculating his redress. He said these included an incorrect 
start date, loan amount, loan term and insurance rebate for loan one. Mr B said the amount 
offered was less than the PPI premium itself, which wasnt right. Mr B provided a loan 
statement in support of his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and after they provided Lloyds with the information Mr B 
provided, it increased its offer of compensation.
Mr B didnt accept the revised offer. He said Lloyds had still failed to update the calculation 
using the information he provided - so it was still incorrect.
In response to Mr B providing more loan bank statements and his insistence that Lloyds was 
still making errors  for example the loan balances for loan one didnt correspond with the 
bank statements - over the course of several months Lloyds continued to revise its offer. 
Following its most recent offer of August 2021, our adjudicator said that they thought the 
offer was fair. They said Lloyds was now willing to pay Mr B a further £2307.05 on top of the 
amount originally paid to him in 2019. Because one of the key points Mr B complained about 
was in relation to the insurance rebate  Mr B said he didnt receive one - the adjudicator 
explained that it was usual for Lloyds to refund a proportion of the premium paid when the 
policy ended due to refinancing and this was accounted for in the calculation.
Because Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators conclusions, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds latest offer of compensation made in response to 
the information Mr B has provided is fair in all the circumstances. Ive explained why I think 
this below.
Its clear that Lloyds original offer of compensation when it agreed to uphold Mr Bs PPI mi-
sale complaint fell far short of what he was owed. I can also understand Mr Bs frustration 
that Lloyds continued to make errors in the revisions it said it had made to the calculations.
But having considered Lloyds latest offer and the calculations it has provided (those dated 
16 August 2021, which I understand Mr B has been provided with) I think the calculations 
are in line with our guidance and do now take account of the actual account data Mr B has 
provided. So overall I think Lloyds updated offer is fair in all the circumstances.
While Lloyds early calculation revisions correctly reflected loan ones original advance 
amount as well as the start and end dates as confirmed by the statements Mr B provided, a 
couple of key sticking points remained. These were the assumed term of the loan, the loan 
interest rate, and the insurance rebate amount. 
But I can now see from Lloyds latest calculation that it has revised the loan term from 44 
months to 48 months  it appears it has now found evidence on its systems which supports 
what Mr B said  and it has revised the interest rate from 14.21% to 18.20%. This now 
means that Mr Bs own calculations broadly match those of Lloyds and the loan statements 
Mr B provided. I note that there is a small difference in the closing balance of loan one in 
Lloyds calculations and the running balance doesnt precisely mirror that of the loan 
statements. I think this is likely a result of a slightly different payment date used by the 
calculator - but in my view it does not make a material difference and Im not persuaded from 
my review of the entire calculation in which all four loans are included that Mr B has been 
unfairly disadvantaged. 
So I think this leaves one disputed issue - the insurance rebate and whether Lloyds more 
likely than not paid this to the loan account when loan one was repaid early in 1996 when Mr 
B re-financed it with a new loan.
Lloyds latest calculations shows a PPI rebate amount of £159, which it says is shown on the 
loan statement Mr B has provided. Mr B disputes this entry relates to the insurance rebate  
he says it was the final pro-rata loan instalment before it was rolled into loan two. 
Ive considered this point carefully. And having done so, I think on balance Lloyds did issue 
Mr B with a PPI rebate and this is the amount referred to on the loan statement   so it is fair 
for Lloyds to deduct it in its calculations.
Unfortunately the narrative against the £159 entry on the loan statement isnt helpful  so 
this doesnt tell me anything. But Ive looked at Lloyds PPI policy terms from the time in 
question and this shows that Lloyds did not offer a pro-rata rebate on the PPI premium if the 
policy was cancelled  just that a proportion would be refunded. 
It wasnt uncommon for businesses around this time to carry out insurance refunds in line 
with the rule of 78 - an actuarial calculation that usually applies to loans. I think this is why 
the amount cannot easily be reconciled. I think its also why Mr B says it was a pro-rata loan 
repayment before the loan ended. 
But Im not persuaded by this. Mr Bs loan payments would have been set up by standing 
order on a set day of the month and for a fixed amount. Im also mindful that none of Mr Bs 
other loan statements show an entry like this.
So taking everything into account, I think the £159 credit entry on Mr Bs loan one statement 
is more likely than not the PPI rebate he received when the policy ended when the loan was 
repaid early. Because of this I think it is fair for Lloyds to have accounted for this in its 
compensation calculation.So overall, I think Lloyds offer of compensation is fair in all the circumstances  it has been 
carried out in line with our guidance and Im satisfied it has now taken account of the actual 
account data Mr M has provided.
In closing I have thought about the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr B 
 in particular Lloyds repeated failure to account for the actual account data Mr B provided 
in its calculations. Having done so, Ive decided not to make any additional award for this 
because I think in directing Lloyds to bring the offer up to date and increasing the 
compensatory interest element of the award, this fairly compensates Mr B for the trouble 
caused.
Putting things right
Lloyds offer of compensation calculation dated 16 August 2021 is fair. But to ensure that Mr 
B is not out of pocket, Lloyds should update its calculation and bring its offer up to date in 
relation to the compensatory interest element of the award and calculate this to the date of 
payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Lloyds Bank PLCs offer of PPI compensation has been 
calculated fairly and so now represents fair compensation. Lloyds Bank PLC should now 
update its offer as I have set out above and pay Mr B the additional compensation owed to 
him.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman