DRN-2947649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about information recorded on their credit files by NRAM 
Limited. They want the information removed so that they can arrange a remortgage.
What happened
In August 2007, on the advice of their broker, Mr and Mrs O took out an interest-only 
mortgage with NRAM, borrowing just over £600,000 over a ten-year term. The mortgage 
term came to an end in August 2017. Mr and Mrs O continued to make the monthly 
repayments plus an additional £300 per month to clear arrears, under a payment 
arrangement that had been agreed in September 2015. This continued until February 2018 
when the arrears were cleared. Mr and Mrs O then made no payment for three months. 
Mr and Mrs O say that this is because they believed that, once the arrears had been cleared, 
they only needed to repay the full outstanding balance and that no further monthly interest 
payments were due. When Mr and Mrs O realised they still needed to pay the interest, they 
caught up the missed payments. They later made a lump sum capital reduction of £210,000 
from their own resources, reducing the balance to just under £400,000.
But Mr and Mrs O say theyve been unable to remortgage because NRAM recorded missed 
payments on their account for March, April and May 2018.
In 2019 the mortgage was part of a portfolio sale by NRAM to another business, but that 
doesnt affect this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O complained to NRAM. They say NRAM led them to believe they didnt need to 
make any more monthly payments after February 2018. NRAM didnt uphold the complaint, 
so Mr and Mrs O contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at what had happened. She thought NRAMs correspondence and 
phone conversation in February 2018 had been unclear. She could see why Mr and Mrs O 
thought they only needed to repay the outstanding balance after that date. The investigator 
asked NRAM to remove the markers on Mr and Mrs Os credit files for March, April and May 
2018.
Mr and Mrs O were happy about this but NRAM didnt think it had done anything wrong and 
so asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Provisional decision of 8 July 2021
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2021 in which I made the following findings:
It is correct that, once the mortgage reached the end of its term in August 2017, the 
full balance was due and payable to NRAM. But that doesnt mean that no further 
interest payments are due. I see that when the payment arrangement was set up in 
September 2015, this showed payments continuing after the mortgage expiry date of 
August 2017, and that this was broken down to show the monthly mortgage interest 
payment separate from the agreed amount.
Looking at what Mr and Mrs O have said, they thought that, once the arrears were 
cleared, thered be no further payment to make. But taking that to its logical point, 
that would mean that after the mortgage ended in August 2017, no further monthly 
interest payments were due, whereas Mr and Mrs O continued to pay the monthly 
interest from September 2017 until February 2018.
Although I agree NRAM could have made it clearer that Mr and Mrs O needed to 
continue with their monthly payments in February 2018, Im also satisfied that it was 
reasonable for NRAM to conclude Mr and Mrs O were going to continue with the 
monthly interest payments, given that theyd been paying the interest for the last six 
months since the mortgage term expired. So although NRAM wasnt explicit about 
the need for continuing monthly interest payments, it was a reasonable expectation 
on NRAMs part that these would continue, as they had done so since the mortgage 
expired.
I will add that, even if there had been no prior arrears and the 2015 payment 
arrangement hadnt existed, the full monthly interest payment would still have been 
due once the mortgage term expired in August 2017.
NRAM is required to record accurate information about mortgage arrears with the 
credit reference agencies, and it did so in this case. Im not persuaded it would be fair 
or reasonable to order NRAM to remove the arrears in all the circumstances of this 
case.
Responses to the provisional decision
NRAM had nothing further to add. Mr O has made a number of points on behalf of himself 
and Mrs O. Ive taken note of everything Mr O has said, and I have summarised below the 
most relevant points.
contractual liability to repay interest beyond the due date does not exist, as this is not 
mentioned in the contract;
he and Mrs O are in breach of contract and so any interest they owe NRAM arises from 
damages for breach of contract rather than any entitlement on the part of NRAM to 
monthly payments;
their only obligation is to repay the full amount owed, plus accrued interest;
NRAM has not sought to argue that they are required to continue to pay the contractual 
monthly repayment as an implied term of the contract;
the only reason they continued with monthly payments from September 2018 onwards is 
because NRAM told them that they were extending the term or words which any 
reasonable layperson would have understood to be the case.
consequently, there is no basis on which it is fair or reasonable for NRAM to have placed 
markers on their credit files.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken careful note of all the points Mr O has made in response to the provisional 
decision. The majority of Mr Os arguments centre around his belief that, once the mortgage 
term came to an end, there was no longer any contractual obligation on the part of himself 
and Mrs O to continue to make the monthly payments and that they only did so for a time to 
clear arrears. Given this, the focus of my decision is on the points Mr O has made about the 
mortgage contract.
Mr O is adamant that, once the mortgage term reached its end, there was no longer any 
contractual obligation on him or Mrs O to make any further monthly payments, and that 
NRAM was only entitled to accrued interest as a remedy for breach of contract. I disagree.
I have looked at the terms and conditions which Mr and Mrs O received when they took out 
the mortgage, and which part of the binding contract between them and NRAM.
Clause 1.2 sets out the definitions of terms used in the offer, including: 
Monthly Payment means the monthly payment set out in the Offer or any changed 
monthly payment which applies under condition 8.1;
(Condition 8.1 refers to NRAMs entitlement to vary the monthly payment for various reasons 
that arent relevant here.)
and
Offer Debt means all the money you owe us from time to time under the Offer, 
including unpaid interest, Costs and Fees;
Clause 5 of the terms and conditions says:
5. What you agree to pay
5.1 You agree to pay us the Monthly Payments until the Offer Debt is paid off.
From this, it is clear that the mortgage terms and conditions require Mr and Mrs O to 
continue to pay the monthly payment until they have repaid the capital. Cessation of monthly 
payments is contingent on there being no outstanding debt owed to NRAM. If it had been 
NRAMs intention that monthly payments were only required over the term of the mortgage, 
the contractual terms would have said that liability for the monthly payments would end in 
August 2017, rather than continue until the debt is repaid.
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded by Mr Os argument that he and Mrs O werent 
under any contractual obligation to continue to pay the monthly payment, once theyd 
cleared the arrears in February 2018. I say this because the contractual terms say the exact 
opposite of what Mr and Mrs O have argued, and are explicit that liability for the monthly 
payment continues until the full mortgage debt has been repaid. Im satisfied that this is an 
express, not an implied, term of the contract. 
Given this, the other arguments made by Mr O about whether or not there was a term 
extension fall away, because the continued existence of the debt required monthly payments 
to be met until repayment of the balance to NRAM, under the contractual terms agreed to by 
Mr and Mrs O in 2007. There doesnt appear to have been any formal term extension granted by NRAM; rather, NRAM has allowed a period of forbearance in order to enable Mr 
and Mrs O to make arrangements to clear the debt, during which time they are required to 
make the monthly payment.
As I said in my provisional decision I think NRAM could have been a bit clearer about Mr and 
Mrs Os continuing obligation to make payments, referring them to the terms to which they 
had agreed in 2007. But that doesnt change the outcome of this complaint or mean that 
NRAM wasnt required to report correct information about missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies.
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied NRAM hasnt done anything wrong in reporting 
missed payments on Mr and Mrs Os credit files. I appreciate this will be unwelcome news to 
Mr and Mrs O, but theyre free to reject my decision. If they dont accept my decision, it wont 
be legally binding on them or NRAM, and Mr and Mrs O will be free to argue in court whether 
or not they are bound by the contractual terms which they agreed to in August 2007. I would 
suggest Mr and Mrs O take legal advice from a qualified solicitor if they are considering 
embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman