DRN-3595352
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice D C Financial Limited (DCFL) gave to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension . He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr D to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ds. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr D approached DCFL for advice. He had accrued BSPS pension benefits from two 
separate periods of employment. DCFL gathered information about his entitlement under 
both periods of employment and obtained two transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports for 
each of those. It completed a fact-find with him and an assessment of his risk appetite. It 
also received an illustration from a named personal pension provider of what Mr Ds pension 
might be worth if he transferred his benefits into it. Amongst other things, DCFL noted that:
Mr D was 46 years old, in good health with four dependent children and planning on 
marrying in 2018.
He was employed earning £33,500 a year with a net income of £2,025 a month and 
regular outgoings of £1,950.
His fianc was also working and earning around £24,000 a year.
He had a mortgage of £46,000 outstanding on his home with a value of £90,000. His 
mortgage had a remaining term of 17 years.
He had £900 in savings and no debts beyond his mortgage.
Since April 2017 Mr D and his employer had together contributed 16% of his salary 
into a group money purchase pension scheme.
He had death in service benefits of four times his salary.
He had two other small pension pots, which  together  were worth £24,465.
He required a net income in retirement of £1,600 a month (£21,125 a year gross).
1 1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members 
of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level 
of the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ 
from the original scheme.
He had a cautious to medium attitude to risk.
His preferred retirement age was 60.
DCFL met with Mr D again on 28 September 2017. It recommended he should transfer the 
benefits from his two DB pensions into a named personal pension. Mr D also agreed to 
transfer the two small pension pots to the personal pension. On 4 October 2017 DCFL sent 
Mr D a suitability report setting out the reasons for its recommendation. Amongst other 
things it said:
Mr Ds two DB pension pots had a total cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£277,073. But that sum was after a deduction of 8% because the scheme was 
underfunded. However, the reduction had gone down to 5% and Mr Ds CETV was 
now £286,108. That sum was guaranteed until 11 December 2017.
At 65 the DB scheme would pay him a pension of £18,897 a year, or £13,644 a year 
if he retired at 60.
By transferring out of the DB scheme Mr D would be giving up the guaranteed 
benefits it entitled him to.
Mr D wanted to transfer:
oin order to access his funds flexibly and penalty free; 
ohe was concerned about the future of the scheme; 
ohe didnt want his pension pots to enter the PPF; and 
othe schemes death benefits were inflexible.
The growth rate required (the critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme 
was 6.29% at age 65 and 7.05% at age 60.
It was very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits 
Mr D would be giving up.
The critical yield required to match the benefits should the pension move into the 
PPF was 2.8% at age 65 
It said the two TVAS were calculated using the old [employers] CETVs. The new 
transfer values would result in slightly decreasing the required critical yields.
His desired income in retirement of £21,125 was considerably higher than the DB 
scheme pension at age 60.
Mr Ds state pension entitlement would provide him a secure inflation protected 
income in retirement.
There were advantages and disadvantages of a transfer which it explained along with 
the risks, which Mr D was prepared to accept.
DCFL would charge Mr D 2.5% of the transfer value for its advice and arranging the 
transfer. It would charge him a further fee of 1% of the fund value for ongoing advice. 
The personal pension provider would charge Mr B a platform fee 0.25% and fund 
charges of between 0.63% to 1.25% depending on the particular fund Mr D had 
invested in. 
Mr D signed to say he had read and understood the suitability report on 9 October 2017. 
Around the same time the DB administrators wrote to scheme members and sent them a 
"time to choose pack. Those gave members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2. 
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
In December 2017 the personal pension provider confirmed it had received £286,108 from 
the BSPS transfers.Mr D complained about DCFLs advice in 2021. In short Mr D said he believed the advice to 
transfer out of his DB scheme wasnt suitable for him. DCFL didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
It said it had completed a comprehensive review and its advice met Mr Ds stated needs and 
objectives and as such was in his best interests.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. He upheld it and recommended DCFL 
pay compensation including an additional £300 to address Mr Ds distress and 
inconvenience resulting from the unsuitable advice. Amongst other things our investigator 
thought that DCFL should have advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2 rather than transfer to a 
personal pension. 
DCFL didnt agree. Amongst other things it said:
At the time of its advice the BSPS2 was still only a possibility.
Our investigators assessment of the complaint didnt recognise the fear and 
uncertainty scheme members felt about the situation with their employer and their 
pensions.
Mr D was adamant that in the event of his death he wanted the funds remaining 
from his pension to be passed to his family.
A transfer was the only way to achieve Mr Ds objectives.
The regulator had carried out a review of some of its files and not raised any 
concerns.
If compensation was to be awarded it should be done on a comparison with the 
benefits of the PPF rather than the BSPS2.
DCFL was no longer providing advice for Mr D and shouldn't be liable for any losses 
as a result of advice given by an adviser it wasnt responsible for. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of the events complained about DCFL also arranged for the transfer of Mr Ds 
two small personal pension pots, as well as his DB scheme funds. But, as Mr D hasn't 
complained about the transfer of the two small pots I don't intend to comment on the merits 
of that action.
In bringing this complaint and responding to it both Mr D and DCFL have made a number of 
points. Ive considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I don't intend to 
address each and every point individually and instead will focus on the matters which I see 
as being at the heart of Mr Ds complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL 's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCFL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ds best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied that it was.
Uncertainty and distrust 
In DCFL response to our investigators assessment of the complaint it highlighted that many 
scheme members like Mr D had concerns over their employers future and the future of their 
pensions. Its added that, at the time, the BSPS2 hadn't yet been put in place and was still 
only a possibility. 
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr D had serious concerns about their employers 
future and the effect this would have on their pension pots. The situation was evolving after 
the BSPS closed in March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what 
moving pensions to the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period 
of uncertainty for people like Mr D. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time 
for a balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the need for suitable 
advice. 
I understand there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived 
notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme. But DCFL 
was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately 
balanced view of all the available options. And in order to recommend that Mr D should 
transfer out of his DB scheme DCFL needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so 
was in his best interests. 
I dont dispute that when Mr D approached DCFL there was still the possibility that his 
pension could move to the PPF. And DCFL has argued it couldn't be sure  at the time of its 
advice  that the BSPS2 would go ahead. But I think DCFL overestimated the chance of the 
BSPS2 not happening. I note that Mr D sought advice before hed received his time to 
choose pack. But, some months earlier, in May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of 
the RAA had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Mr Ds employer agreed to set up 
and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being 
satisfied. The Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. Subsequently on 28 August 2017 the BSPS administrators provided scheme members, 
including Mr D, with an important update in respect of BSPS transfer values. The update 
said an expected payment into the BSPS of £550 million by Mr Ds employer, as part of its 
agreement with The Pension Regulator, was likely to result in an improvement to transfer 
values. And for those with unexpired transfer values, like Mr D, administrators would issue 
updated valuations in October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least 
December 2017. The confirmation that Mr Ds employer had made the payment referred to 
was announced on 11 September 2017. That was over two weeks before DCFL made its 
recommendation. 
So, I dont think it was the case that DCFL or Mr D were in a position whereby they couldn't 
wait for details of the BSPS2. And given that the whole purpose of the RAA was to prevent 
the entirety of the BSPS entering the PPF, I think that DCFL should have been aware that it 
was more likely than not that the BSPS2 would go ahead. In those circumstances, while 
entry into the PPF was still a possibility, I think DCFL should have explained to Mr D that this 
was unlikely to be Mr Ds only option and taken the necessary steps, including deferring 
giving its advice until more details of the BSPS2 was known. But it didnt do that. 
Further, even if Mr D remained concerned about the possibility, even if it was a slim one, of 
the BSPS2 not happening or itself moving into the PPF at a later date, I think DCFL should 
have addressed that concern. A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a 
reduction of around 10% in retirement income and less generous yearly indexed pension 
increases. But for those taking early retirement the PPF could have been more beneficial. 
But, as I go into in more detail below, I think that some key information is missing from 
DCFLs TVAS and suitability report. And as such it wouldnt be easy for Mr D to make a 
direct comparison between the benefits from the PPF and those expected from the BSPS. 
And, while I understand that the prospect of pension benefits moving to the PPF was for 
some people rather daunting, its probably the case that it wasn't as significant as many 
BSPS scheme members believed it to be. And its certainly possible that Mr D could have 
met his needs in retirement and retained guaranteed benefits if the BSPS2 hadnt gone 
ahead and hed had to move his pension to the PPF. But, I'm not persuaded that the 
uncertainty that Mr D experienced when he entered into the advice process was sufficient 
reason to recommend that he should transfer his safeguarded benefits from a DB scheme, 
even one with the possibility of going into the PPF. Thats because, to do so would expose 
those funds to the volatilities and risks of the investment markets. So, I dont think those 
concerns should have led to DCFL recommending Mr D transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
DCFLs advice process
DCFL obtained transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports (as the regulator required) for each of 
Mr Ds two periods where he contributed to his DB scheme. Those showed how much Mr 
Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yields) in order to provide the 
same benefits as each of those periods from his DB scheme. But, those critical yields were 
based on his existing scheme benefits and Mr D didnt have the option to remain in the 
BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF.
I accept that at the time DCFL drafted its suitability report it didnt know the precise details of 
the BSPS2. But, as I've said above, DCFL could have deferred giving advice until those 
were known. In any event what was assumed was that the benefits of the BSPS were 
thought to be better than those proposed in the BSPS2. And the BSPS2 was thought to be 
of greater benefit than the funds going into the PPF for the schemes normal retirement age 
of 65. So, in reality, the growth rates required to match the BSPS2 benefits were likely to be somewhere between those required for the PPF and those for the BSPS. And while it was 
possible that the BSPS2 might not have gone ahead, given that it was more likely than not 
that it would, as I've said above, I think DCFL should have factored in the likely benefits 
available to Mr D through the BSPS2 before it gave its advice. Had it done so Mr D would 
have been in a better place to make an informed decision.
But, not only did DCFL not wait for further information about BSPS2 to become available, it 
also gave its advice with only limited details from the BSPS. I've provided an analysis of the 
suitability of that advice below. But, I think I need to also comment on the timing and the 
manner in which DCFL provided its advice.
DCFL met with Mr D for a second time on 28 September 2017. At that meeting, DCFL 
discussed the findings from its TVAS reports and gave Mr D information about the proposed 
named personal pension. It recommended that Mr D should transfer his DB benefits to the 
named pension. Mr D then confirmed he wanted to go ahead with the transfer and he signed 
the relevant forms to allow that to happen. DCFL then sent Mr D a letter, on 4 October 2017 
setting out the reasons for its recommendation. 
I appreciate that, at that time, the regulators rules didnt require DCFL to issue its suitability 
report before completing the transaction. So it wasnt acting outside of its regulatory 
requirements by sending the suitability report after Mr D had already signed the papers to go 
ahead with the transfer. But a much fairer process would have been for DCFL to provide its 
advice as a whole. That advice should have considered the overall picture  including an 
analysis of moving to the PPF, moving to the BSPS2 or transferring out of the DB scheme 
altogether. DCFL should have presented those options together in one document and given 
Mr D the chance to digest that information before going ahead with the transfer. But DCFL 
didnt send Mr D its suitability report until after Mr D had already signed to say he wanted to 
go ahead with the transfer.
DCFL would no doubt argue that it explained the content of its suitability report to Mr D when 
it met with him. And, as it believed he was clear about his objectives and his means of 
meeting those it put the wheels in motion to sort out the transfer without first putting its 
detailed analysis to him in writing. But, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. 
Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost 
forever. So, I think DCFL should have ensured that Mr D had sight of all the information he 
needed in order to make an informed choice in advance of him making that decision. And 
that included the information within DCFLs suitability report and the information from the 
named personal pension provider. But DCFL didnt do that.
However, even if that hadn't been the case and DCFL had sent Mr D its suitability report 
before asking him to sign the documents to arrange the transfer, I still dont think it gave him 
enough information to fully consider his options.
DCFLs suitability report refers to Mr Ds desire to retire at age 60. And it said its 
recommendation would allow him to achieve that aim. But it provided very little information in 
its reports about how he would achieve that and what he would be giving up in order to do 
so. There was certainly very little in the way of analysis of the relevant benefits from a 
personal pension at age 60 and how long his funds would last him if he started drawing 
down funds from it in its suitability report .
Also, putting aside the lack of information from the BSPS2 for one moment, there are other 
omissions. DCFLs transfer value analysis reports show Mr Ds projected yearly pension 
from the BSPS at ages 65 and 60. But the TVAS reports dont show what his entitlement to 
tax free cash (TFC) would be from the BSPS at those ages, nor does it show by how much 
those would reduce the yearly pension entitlement or the critical yields to match those. Its possible that DCFLs TVAS provider omitted TFC figures from the TVAS reports because the 
BSPS administrators hadn't provided those figures when giving Mr D his CETV quotes. But if 
that was the case then DCFL should have asked the administrators for those figures before 
giving its advice or asked for those to be included within its TVAS using known commutation 
figures. That way it could have ensured it gave Mr D all the information he needed in order to 
make an informed choice. But it didnt do so.
For example, the PPF was known to have different early retirement factors to the BSPS (and 
the BSPS2), in particular when calculating TFC. The TVAS reports do show TFC figures if 
Mr Ds pension had gone into the PPF. They also show that Mr D could expect a yearly 
pension from his DB scheme of £13,644 if he took his pension from it at age 60. In contrast 
the PPF showed it would pay him a yearly pension of £12,966, which would indicate that the 
BSPS benefits were around 5% higher than the PPF at age 60. But thats without comparing 
the TFC figures. But DCFLs reports only show the TFC figures for the PPF. They dont show 
what Mr D might have received in TCF from the BSPS. And DCFLs suitability report makes 
very little reference to the benefits from the PPF at age 60. So Mr D couldn't have 
considered those to see if the TFC figures were significantly higher in the PPF. Thats 
important as, if they had been and he was certain he wanted to retire at 60, then it may have 
been in his interests to allow his pension to move to the PPF.
Further, the two TVAS reports had quite different critical yields to match their benefits as I've 
shown in the table below. But, in its suitability report, DCFL only ever referred to the lower of 
these two figures from the first pension period. But that wasn't a fair way of showing what the 
actual critical yield figure would be when combining the two and in some instances the 
critical yield from the second pension period was more than double that from the first. So I 
don't think it was reasonable for DCFL to only refer to the lower figure. 
Critical 
Yield forBSPS Age 
65  full 
pensionAge 60  
full pension PPF age 65 
full pension 
no TFCPPF age 65 
after taking 
TFC PPF age 60 
 full 
pension PPF age 60 
after taking 
TFC
First 
pension 
period6.29% 7.05% 2.98% 2.69% 3.3% 2.98%
Second 
pension 
period7.58% 8.86% 5.56% 5.25% 7.04% 6.68%
That said, as I refer to below, DCFL itself recognised that the critical yields were not 
achievable, so it might not have placed too much emphasis on the figures. But in only 
showing one set of figures, it didnt present the information to Mr D in a way that was clear, 
fair and not misleading.
Financial viability 
The table above shows that the relevant critical yield at age 65 for Mr D taking a full pension 
from the BSPS without TFC was somewhere between 6.29% and 7.58%. The critical yield 
required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 was between 2.98% and 
5.56% if Mr D took a full pension. While DCFL didnt, incorrectly in my view, present the 
BSPS2 figures, even without those we can assume the lower annual increases under the 
BSPS2 would have likely decreased the critical yields compared to the BSPS. But, I think 
those wouldve likely been higher than the critical yield matching the PPF benefits, 
particularly at age 65. DCFL sent Mr D its suitability report around the time that the regulator gave instructions in 
Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments, where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
that our Service was publishing discount rates on our website. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.4% a year for over 18 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% a year. And its notable that the discount 
rate would drop to 4.1% when adjusted for Mr D retiring at age 60.
I've taken these figures into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Ds attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr D 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
I note that a discount rate of 4.4% is higher than the critical yield required to match the PPF 
benefits from the first pension period. But I dont think that means that a transfer was 
financially viable, even when compared with Mr Ds pension moving to the PPF. As I've said 
above, the critical yields below the discount rate are all for the first pension period only. And 
the critical yields from the second pension period are all higher than the discount rate and 
the regulators middle projection rate. And after factoring in both sets of figures for the two 
pensions periods I think the critical yield is likely to be equal to or higher than the discount 
rate when comparing against the PPF. But, in any event, that ignores the potential benefits 
from the BSPS2. And, as I've already said, its likely that the BSPS2 benefits would have 
been higher than the comparison to the PPF at age 65. So the critical yield would likely have 
been nearer to the BSPS figures than the PPF. And in those circumstances its unlikely that 
the discount rate would have met or exceeded the critical yield required to match the 
benefits from the BSPS2.
In addition, Mr Ds DB benefits would not be reduced by fees. Indeed they were index linked 
to guarantee they would increase each year. In contrast not only would investment in a 
personal pension be reliant on growth, the funds would also be reduced by fees and 
charges. For example the named personal pension provider produced illustrations (in 
September and December 2017) for what Mr Ds pension pot might be worth in the future. In 
producing the September illustration it assumed growth at the mid level of 4.3% a year, 
reduced by inflation of 2.5% a year (1.88% a year net growth). But it also made an 
adjustment to allow for the charges and fees Mr D would be required to pay. And those 
would reduce the growth by 2.18% a year, which was more than the anticipated growth after 
adjusting for inflation. The illustration showed that from a starting investment of £277,073 
(the figure before the DB administrators revalued it), after 10 years Mr Ds pension pot might 
be worth around £260,000, or around £17,000 less than his initial investment. And by age 
75, that sum could have reduced further to around £251,000 or £26,000 less than the initial 
investment. 
The December 2017 illustration included the revalued DB scheme funds; the investments 
from Mr Ds two small pension pots and assumed a lower percentage growth rate. That 
showed a loss in real terms of around £31,000 after 10 years falling further to a loss of about 
£62,000 by age 75 and that was if the fund grew at the middle rate. So, if projected 
performance had been at the lower rate the predicted losses would likely have been higher. As such I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. Further, 
if there was a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real chance that 
Mr Ds fund would grow at a much slower rate or he could suffer losses. And while DCFL did 
point out these risks to Mr D I believe it should have advised him that opting into the BSPS2 
(the benefits under which would be guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on 
investment growth in a personal pension would have been better suited to his needs. So, 
I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his pension. 
Indeed its notable that DCFL itself said that achieving the critical yield was unlikely to be 
realistic. So it clearly recognised that Mr D would be unlikely to match the benefits from the 
DB scheme by transferring to a personal pension. But it made the recommendation to do so 
anyway. 
For this reason alone a transfer away from the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And 
DCFL has argued that by transferring Mr D was able to achieve his other objectives.
 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. So I've 
gone on to consider whether DCFL has clearly demonstrated that the advice to transfer was 
in Mr Ds best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that DCFLs role was to find out 
what Mr Ds wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr D wanted 
without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its 
recommendation was in his best interests.
Flexibility and early retirement 
DCFL said that by transferring Mr D could enjoy flexible access to his pension income, which 
would allow him to retire early. But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr D 
needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in 
retirement.
I dont doubt that, when asked, Mr D told DCFL that he would prefer to retire at age 60. And I 
can fully understand that desire. I think most people would say when asked that they would 
like to retire early if given the chance. I also think most people would understand that having 
the opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their income security over the 
remainder of their life for. It seems to me that this is something Mr D was likely to reassess 
once he neared age 60. 
Further, as I've said above DCFLs suitability report contains very little in the way of analysis 
to show exactly how Mr D could achieve early retirement at age 60. The suitability report 
says that a deduction of £21,125 a year represented 7.62% of Mr Bs DB scheme funds, In 
fact that was before the fund was revalued to £286,108 and the actual figure should have 
been 7.38%. But at that rate of deduction Mr Ds personal pension fund would only last him 
around 13 years or until he was 73 years old. But that doesn't factor in fund growth.
DCFL said in its suitability report that Mr Ds objectives over the next 14 years would be to 
grow his investment while continuing to contribute to his group money purchase pension 
scheme. It added that he could reduce the amount he took from his personal pension once 
his state pension became payable. So it seems that DCFL was relying on Mr D taking his 
desired income of £21,125 a year at age 60 from his personal pension fund and then 
reducing that sum by an amount equivalent to his state pension once that became payable 
at age 67. But the suitability report doesn't set this out explicitly or have graphs, tables or 
models to show how that would affect the amounts remaining within his pension pot at key 
dates or to show if in fact it was actually realistically achievable.While DCFL didnt provide any predicted figures for how much Mr Ds personal pension 
might be worth in the future, as I've said above, the named personal pension provider gave 
him two such illustrations. Neither gives figures for Mr Ds preferred retirement age of 60. 
But, by age 56 (ten years after investment) they both show the pension pot actually reducing 
in size in todays terms. And while I appreciate that this is only a prediction and as such not 
wholly reliable, it doesn't support DCFLs arguments that transferring would enable Mr D to 
retire at 60, or certainly not without the possibility of depleting his funds significantly earlier 
than he would like to.
But its possible that Mr D could have met his predicted needs in retirement and still taken 
early retirement while opting into BSPS2. There is very little detail on file about what Mr Ds 
fiancs (now his wife) income would be when she came to retirement age. So, its not clear 
whether Mr D would need to support her, or she him, in retirement. But, as I dont have those 
figures to hand I've only considered Mr Ds expressed income needs of £21,125 a year 
gross as being for him personally. The TVAS results were that Mr D would have an income 
from the BSPS of £13,644 at age 60. His income from the BSPS2 was likely to be lower and 
could have been nearer to the PPF estimated income in the TVAS of £12,966 a year. That 
would be an income shortfall of around £8,150 a year.
But the DB scheme wouldn't have been Mr Ds only source of income. He was also paying 
into his group money purchase pension scheme. And, if the contributions continued at 16% 
a year without ever changing or increasing, and without factoring in any growth, the fund 
could be worth around £75,000 by the time he reached 60. I appreciate that Mr D couldnt 
guarantee that he would stay in the same job until retirement. But if he changed jobs its 
likely he would continue paying into a pension. Further Mr D also had the two other small 
pensions pots, which, at the time of DCFLs advice were worth around £25,000. Giving Mr D 
a fund  separate from his DB fund  of around £100,000. And that is without considering 
any investment growth. And, if hed been insistent on retiring at age 60, then he could have 
used those funds to bolster his income until his state pension became payable at age 67. 
But I can't see that DCFL ever put this prospect to him. 
In any event I dont think Mr D had a concrete need to take early retirement. As I've said 
above I can understand why he would want to retire at age 60. But, for most people, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an 
early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working 
to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more likely 
prospect for Mr D. But theres no evidence that DCFL seriously challenged his objective of 
early retirement. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of 
what he would be giving up.
Mr D was still over 14 years away from age 60 and 18 from age 65. So he had no need to 
make an urgent decision to transfer out of his DB scheme, as he could have opted to move 
into the BSPS2. And, if he still felt that he wanted to retire before age 65, and felt that the 
income from the BSPS2 wasnt enough for his needs at that time, he could have considered 
transferring his DB benefits to another scheme at that point. But that wasnt a decision he 
needed to make when he did. 
That said, its true to say that Mr D couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those 
early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as 
drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow Mr D 
to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive 
prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement. And if Mr D did need flexible access to funds, he 
could have arranged to take those from his money purchase pension or from his two 
personal pension pots. 
So while the option of drawing all his pension income flexibly might seem like something that 
would be nice to have, I can't see that Mr D had any genuine need for that flexibility that 
would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for at the time that DCFL gave its advice. So 
I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer.
Death benefits 
One of Mr Ds key objectives when discussing the possibility of a transfer with DCFL was to 
maximise the benefits available to his family on his death. Death benefits are an emotive 
subject and of course when asked most people would like their loved ones to be taken care 
of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was 
likely an attractive feature to Mr D. Thats because whatever was left within Mr Ds personal 
pension at the date of his death would be passed on to his family. And, if that happened 
before his retirement or soon after then that would likely be a significant sum.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this,
the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr D was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential of a lump sum for 
his family that they may not need for many years to come. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was to be married in 2018 and so the 50% spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
scheme or the PPF wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr D predeceased her. And, in the 
unfortunate event he died while his children were still in education, the DB scheme would 
pay a dependents benefit. And I dont think DCFL made the value of these benefits clear 
enough to Mr D. They were guaranteed and escalated  the spouses pension would also be 
calculated as if no TFC had been taken under the BSPS2. Further, it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The two CETVs plus the amounts from Mr Ds small pension pots came to a total of over 
£311,000 invested in his personal pension. So Mr D might have thought that considerable 
fund guaranteed a significant lump sum for his family on his death. But, as demonstrated in 
the named pension providers illustrations, it was far from guaranteed that those sums would 
grow enough to provide Mr D with the pension he needed. And that would mean that there 
would be less available as a death benefit. Further, the fund would reduce as Mr D drew 
down money from it. So if Mr D had to rely heavily on withdrawals from his personal pension 
in the early years of his retirement, until his state pension became payable, then that could 
significantly reduce the amounts available to live off, let alone to leave as a legacy for his 
family. 
If Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns, I think DCFL could have explored life insurance with him. Mr D already had a 
significant death in service benefit through his employer which would have been worth 
around £134,000. But if he wanted to improve on that position, particularly for after he 
retired, then he could have taken extra cover out on a whole of life basis. In response to our 
investigators assessment of the complaint, DCFL said that such cover would have been 
prohibitively expensive. But, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, but 
didnt want to pay a significant premium then DCFLs starting point ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to leave to his family. It could then have looked into 
cover on a whole of life basis, for that sum. 
If DCFL did explore life insurance cover with Mr D, it hasn't documented it anywhere on the 
file I've seen. So I can't see to what extent DCFL challenged Mr Ds desire for death benefits 
over the security of income in retirement. And to my mind, the fact that life insurance wasnt 
explored further suggests to me that greater death benefits wasnt a genuine objective for 
Mr D, instead, it was simply a consequence of transferring his pension. Overall, I dont think 
different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D.
The regulators review
DCFL told us the FCA had reviewed some of its files where it gave clients similar advice in 
circumstances akin to Mr Ds, but the FCA found no reason to question DCFLs advice. The 
implication being that it had acted fairly when giving Mr D advice. I wasnt party to what the 
FCA reviewed or what it found, nor do I need to be. While I'm required to consider the 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, my role is to decide whether DCFL has acted 
fairly and reasonably in all the specific circumstances of this complaint. And for the reasons 
given above, I'm satisfied that DCFLs advice wasnt suitable for Mr D as it wasnt in his best 
interests. So I don't think DCFL acted fairly and reasonably.
Involvement of other firms or advisers
DCFL said that as it has ceased to provide Mr D with advice, it shouldn't be responsible for 
any losses after it stopped advising Mr D. But, if it wasnt for DCFLs advice Mr Ds funds 
would still be held within his DB scheme. And he wouldn't need financial advice and the 
funds wouldn't be a position to suffer losses. So, I dont agree that DCFLs responsibility for 
loss stemming from its advice ceased when it ended its agreement with Mr D.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But DCFL wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
DCFL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr D about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Ds DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. And 
ultimately, I dont think the advice DCFL gave to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension Mr D was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think 
there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when DCFL gave its advice. But it was 
becoming increasingly clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr D had at 
least 14 years to his preferred retirement age and over 18 years to the schemes normal 
retirement age. So his needs in retirement could have changed in the meantime. And by 
opting into the BSPS2 Mr D would have kept the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer 
to his retirement age if he needed to. So, I think DCFL should have advised Mr D to opt into 
the BSPS2. Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for DCFLs advice. And, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he 
would have done so. Thats because Mr D was an inexperienced investor and his BSPS 
pension accounted for a significant portion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if 
DCFL had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and that he would likely be worse off as a result 
of doing so, I think he would have accepted that advice. 
Im also not persuaded Mr Ds concerns about the future of his employer or the DB scheme 
was so great that he would have gone against DCFLs advice. Thats because DCFL had the 
opportunity to clearly explain that the scheme trustees and his employer were not one and 
the same. And that the future of the pensions scheme was in the process of being taken out 
of the employers hands. So DCFL could have allayed Mr Ds concerns about the uncertainty 
of the scheme. And I don't think those would have been sufficient reason for Mr D to insist 
on a transfer. 
It follows that I don't think DCFLs advice to Mr D to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. And I think it should have advised him to opt into the BSPS2 instead. So, 
I think DCFL should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's 
defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And, as this matter has been a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr D, I think DCFL should also pay him £300 to 
address that.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA published a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr D would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. So, I consider its 
fair that DCFL calculates Mr Ds redress in line with new guidance and rules when they 
come into effect. A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider would have opted 
into the BSPS2 if DCFL had given suitable advice. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme, or in this case to opt into BSPS2. Having reviewed the 
FCAs consultation and policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way 
to compensate Mr D.
DCFL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9). 
For clarity while Mr D said he wanted ideally to retire at age 60, hes told us that he has no 
plans to retire at present. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr D's pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and DCFL has 
received notification of his acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to DB 
transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr D.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If DCFL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. DCFL should give him a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
DCFL should provide details of its calculations to Mr M and his representative in a clear, 
simple format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
D C Financial Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman