DRN-3182231
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the early repayment charge (ERC) he was charged when he 
redeemed his mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc. He says the ERC is unfair and unlawful 
on the basis that it is not a genuine pre-estimate of the banks losses. He believes the 
drafting of the ERC should always be the [relevant]% or if less the remaining interest 
charges to pay.
What happened
Mr W had a buy-to-let mortgage with Clydesdale. In May 2018 he moved it onto a new 
preferential interest rate. The rate was fixed at 2.19% until 30 June 2020, and the mortgage 
offer explained there would be an ERC of:
3% of the amount repaid until 30 June 2019,
2% of the amount repaid after 30 June 2019 and before 30 June 2020.
In May 2020 Clydesdale provided a redemption statement to Mr Ws solicitor and that 
detailed that an ERC of around £7,400 was due, but that if the mortgage was redeemed after 
30 June 2020 that the ERC wouldnt apply. The mortgage was repaid on 7 May 2020 and 
Mr W says he had to pay the ERC so the sale didnt fall through even though he didnt agree 
with it.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She said that the information provided by 
Clydesdale was confidential so she couldnt disclose it, but it showed that its methodology 
for calculating the ERC was reasonable and proportionate to the mortgage. She explained 
that the charge has to be a reasonable pre-estimate of costs and can be averaged across a 
large number of mortgages, rather than the actual losses linked to one individual account.
Mr W didnt agree he said (amongst others):
Ive always been clear - my belief is that the fee can not be a reasonable pre-estimate 
of loss for the bank - over £7k with less than 2 months left!
Saying that Clydesdale are allowed to justify it with reference to a portfolio of 
mortgages is strange and cannot be right. Its not reasonable and doesnt apply to my 
specific circumstances - £7k and 2 months left. Allowing their approach would seemingly 
mean that they can avoid scrutiny and allow large fees. The position is simple - how can 
they say that they have suffered loss of £7k if there are only 2 months left on the 
mortgage!!
I want to understand what losses did the lender think it would suffer if I redeemed the 
mortgage with less than 2 months to go when it set the fee?
What losses did it actually suffer when I redeemed the mortgage? (Knowing the answer 
to this would be a good indication of whether its fee was reasonable.)
You seem to suggest (if Ive understood correctly) that the fact that there wasnt long to 
run on the mortgage term or the fact that the fee was many multiples of the remaining 
interest left to pay isnt relevant. I really do disagree with this as both those points are 
really relevant in working out whether the amount of the fee was reasonable (it would be 
really strange if a lenders losses were in excess of the interest it was going to receive).
the fee is grossly out of proportion to the remaining interest payments (its 10x roughly). 
This is a really odd situation - a ERC paying more than the bank would have received in 
interest (ie its profit margin) is prima facie wrong.
that Clydesdale can keep the methodology confidential feels like a stitch up. I should be 
able to review and criticise the methodology. I cant believe that any of this is 
commercially sensitive. They wont be financing their mortgages in any radically different 
way to any other lender. Could it not have been provided to me in some redacted 
manner? They would be required to disclose this as part of any Court case and 
shouldnt view this as any different. The unwillingness to disclose the detail suggests 
they are not confident in their methodology.
you have alluded before to them being allowed to justify the fee over a portfolio of 
mortgages or a product. This is wrong and if correct rather proves that my fee when 
looked at on its own is unreasonable (ie they think it is only justifiable if they widen the 
scope of what they are looking at). The guidance is clear - it must be the fee that I pay 
that has to be a reasonable pre estimate of their losses applicable to my early 
repayment.
He suggested that the deciding ombudsman considers the following points:
Whether Clydesdale suffered a loss to the amount of the ERC Mr W paid, whether there 
was ever any danger it would suffer that loss if the mortgage was repaid one month 
before the end of the term, and if not then it cant be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
Clydesdales losses.
Whether I understand Clydesdales methodology  does it make sense and is it 
reasonable?
Are Clydesdales losses to some genuine third party, or are they to some other 
Clydesdale entity?
He suggested that if I do understand the methodology and genuinely agree it is reasonable 
then I may have to explain that before a court as he will be taking legal action if his complaint 
isnt successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said Clydesdale increased the term to 30 June 2020, which I acknowledge but 
morally it adds to my position given Ive even seen out the 2 year term. (These are sold as 2 
year mortgages and then when you get the fine print and cant really decide otherwise you 
are told they are actually 2 months longer - this is a separate issue and I dont want to 
confuse the point here but mention for completeness.)But Clydesdale didnt increase the fixed rate term, the fixed rate Mr W applied for was 
always due to end on 30 June 2020. That was explained in the contractual mortgage offer of 
19 April 2018. It didnt matter whether the mortgage completed in May 2018 or September 
2018 (for example), the fixed rate would always run until 30 June 2020. Thats not in the fine 
print, it is the description of the mortgage product. 
Some lenders offer their fixed rates for a set time period (such as 24 months), others offer 
their fixed rates until a set date in time (such as until 30 June 2020). Neither is right or 
wrong, and both are completely acceptable ways to set up a fixed rate, provided the 
documentation sets out the details clearly. Its clear from the mortgage offer in this case that 
the fixed rate would end on a set date regardless of when it started and Mr W accepted that 
offer.
The 2018 preferential rate was sold to Mr W by a broker acting on his behalf, so if he feels 
he was mis-advised on that basis then he would need to raise that complaint with his broker, 
not with Clydesdale.
I wont be answering each of Mr Ws points individually. No discourtesy is meant by that, it is 
simply that my remit is to consider this complaint as an independent and impartial person. 
The crux of the complaint is that Mr W doesnt think Clydesdale is entitled to charge him the 
ERC it did as he thinks it doesnt represent a true pre-estimate of its loss. Mr W has 
mentioned how other lenders calculate their ERCs and some court cases hes read about. 
But what Im considering here is the regulators rules and guidance, not what another lender 
may or may not do, or something that may have been said in a court case about other 
matters.
When Mr W switched products in May 2018 he accepted the terms of the new mortgage. 
That included that an ERC of 2% would be applied if the mortgage was repaid between 
1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020. The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the 
mortgage offer. Im satisfied that Clydesdale took reasonable steps to make Mr W aware of 
the circumstances in which it would apply an ERC and how much it would charge. It has 
applied the ERC in line with the terms of the offer. I accept that Mr W might have been close 
to falling outside of the fixed rate period and thus not incurring the ERC. But the offer was 
clear about the amount of ERC that would apply and when it would apply until.
All that said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
the complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB).
MCOB says that lenders can impose an ERC as long as it can be expressed as a cash value 
and is a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result of the customer repaying the 
amount due under the regulated mortgage contract before the contract has terminated. It 
goes on to explain that lenders dont have to calculate the ERC for every mortgage 
individually. They can calculate the ERC across a range of mortgages of the same type. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Clydesdale is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it 
will be an under-calculation. But thats allowed; Clydesdale doesnt have to refund the 
difference, but equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Clydesdale has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this tranche of 
mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Clydesdale has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr W, nor will I be answering his questions about it.
The information from Clydesdale shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. 
It shows that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of 
the capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial 
instruments that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future 
losses. Ive looked carefully at what Clydesdale has said and I consider it is a fair way to 
calculate the ERC. 
I appreciate that Mr W was very near to the end of the tie-in period and that the amount of 
the ERC appears out of proportion to the amount of payments that were due under the fixed 
rate. But Im afraid that isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated nor is the actual cost to 
Clydesdale of this individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. MCOB only 
requires Clydesdale to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the mortgage 
being repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what Clydesdale 
has done. And based on the information presented to me I consider it was reasonable for it 
to charge the ERC it did. 
Mr W has pointed to a decision that weve published that was issued by one of my 
ombudsman colleagues. Im not sure if hes read that decision in full, but the key point (and 
the reason that was upheld) was that the lender was unable to provide the information the 
ombudsman needed to decide whether the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
lenders losses The ombudsman even said that it was possible the ERC was reasonable, but 
they hadnt seen enough evidence to be satisfied it was. But thats not the case here as 
Clydesdale has provided that information, and I am satisfied the ERC was a reasonable 
pre-estimate of its loss in line with the regulators rules and guidance on this.
Contrary to Mr Ws belief, Clydesdale doesnt have to prove it to him as part of our process. 
It only has to prove it to us. It may be the courts take a different viewpoint and require 
Clydesdale to provide the information to Mr W, but that would be a matter for the court if 
Mr W does decide to take legal action as hes indicated. As far as our process goes, Ive 
accepted the evidence in confidence, and our rules allow me to do that.
Overall, I dont consider the amount of the ERC was unreasonable and I dont consider it 
was unfair for Clydesdale to apply the ERC in line with the agreement that Mr W entered 
into.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman