DRN-4132816
The complaint
Mr A complains that Equifax Limited loaded fraud markers against his name.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr A applied for information from Cifasa fraud prevention serviceafter he experienced 
some of his financial products closing down. This revealed that, in March 2021, Equifax 
loaded adverse fraud markers against his name for false applications.
Mr A complained to Equifax and asked it to remove the markers. But Equifax responded 
stating that it was unable to provide a response to his complaint within the allotted 
timescales and referred him to our service.
An Investigator at our service considered the evidence provided by both parties. 
Equifax submitted evidence to support the loading of the marker. It said that Mr A had made 
multiple applications using numerous aliases, personal details and conflicting identity 
documents. It said that technical data associated with these applications revealed that Mr A 
was likely the person submitting the false applications, and therefore felt the marker was 
applied fairly in the circumstances.
Mr A denied this. He said hed only made legitimate applications to Equifax and had never 
been known by any other alias.
The Investigator concluded that Equifax was fair in loading the marker. Overall, they felt 
Equifax had provided sufficient evidence to support Mr As involvement in the false 
applications, and this satisfied Cifas burden of proof. Therefore, they didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld.
Mr A disagreed. He responded to the Investigators assessment setting out that he must 
have himself been a victim of hacking, identity theft and impersonation.
As Mr A disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cifas members, such as Equifax, must adhere to the standards set out by Cifas in its 
National Fraud Database Handbook. 
In order for a member to satisfy itself that an adverse loading is warranted in the 
circumstances, Cifas requires that its members meet certain standards of proof. These 
include:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
This means that the member cannot load a marker based on mere suspicion. It must have 
clear and robust evidence to support that a financial crime has been committed or 
attempted, and that the person it intends to load the marker against had witting involvement 
in this act. It does not however need to go as far as proving this beyond all reasonable 
doubt.
Here, Equifax has provided detailed and thorough technical data in its submissions. It says 
that the information it has provided our service supports the likelihood that Mr A was 
responsible, or involved in, making multiple applications to Equifax using numerous aliases 
and suspected falsified identity documents. Having considered this evidence, Im persuaded 
that Equifax has demonstrated it met the bar to load a marker against Mr As name.
While Im unable to share the intricate details of the technical information Equifax has 
provided our service, I would like to assure Mr A that this has been considered carefully. The 
data Equifax has provided gives strong indication that numerous accounts and applications 
were made to it in various alias names by the same individual. And some of the internet 
protocol addresses and devices used in genuine applications hes made have been linked to 
these accounts.
As Mr A told Equifax and our service that hed never been known by any other alias, its 
reasonable that Experian has deemed these applications to be fraudulent, as its likely there 
has been some form of misrepresentation when making them.
Id like to reassure Mr A that Im in no way accusing him directly of being responsible for 
these actions; that is beyond my role here. But Im merely testing Equifaxs evidence against 
the standards of proof it must meet in order to load the marker against him. And having done 
so, Im satisfied that there is sufficient linkage to Mr A and the other applications made to 
support such a loading.
Mr A has made representations that he was likely victim to some form of hacking and identity 
theft, but I have no evidence to support this submission.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman