DRN-2058038
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard registered a default on 
his credit file without warning.
What happened
Mr M says the default was registered on his credit file in January 2017 and that he wasnt 
given any warning that would happen or given an opportunity to sort out matters to avoid that 
happening. He would like the default removed as it is affecting his credit score.
Barclaycard says it wrote to Mr M on a number of occasions about the debt and missed 
payments and says it spoke to him about his financial position. It says it sent a number of 
default notices and told him it would register a default. Barclaycard says it agreed a 
repayment plan after the default was registered and told Mr M again in May 2017 that it had 
been registered.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it and didnt think 
Barclaycard had acted unfairly. The investigator thought Mr M had missed his monthly 
repayments from September 2016 to the end of 2016 and Barclaycard had acted in line with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance by registering a default after three 
months of arrears. The investigator also thought Barclaycard had sent a number of letters to 
Mr M about the default and the risk of one being registered.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he didnt receive any letters during that period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and didnt make a mistake by registering a default in 2017. I also think it did tell Mr 
M what was going to happen. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and can see that Mr M told it in around August 2016 
that he was in financial difficulties and that he wanted to avoid the account being defaulted. 
So, I think Mr M was aware that was a possibility, but I can also see that required monthly 
repayments were missed up to the end of 2016. Im satisfied Barclaycard sent Mr M a 
number of letters about his account and sent him default notices. And there is a record of Mr 
M speaking to Barclaycard in December 2016. So, I think Mr M was aware or ought to have 
been aware at that stage that he hadnt made the payments and there was a risk his account 
would default.
 I can see that the account was placed on hold for a month in December 2016 and 
Barclaycard told Mr M that unless further contact was made within a month the account 
would revert to the standard terms. I dont think there was further contact until the end of 
January 2017 by which time Barclaycard had defaulted the account. I can also see that in 
May 2017 Mr M asked Barclaycard for a reduced settlement which it refused and told Mr M 
that the account had been defaulted.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard did warn Mr M about the possibility of the account 
defaulting on a number of occasions. And that Mr M must have spoken to it at the time and 
been aware that was a possibility. Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted in line with ICO 
guidance on the registering of a default when Mr M missed a number of monthly repayments 
and didnt speak to Barclaycard within the month that interest and charges were suspended. 
I think in those circumstances Barclaycard fairly concluded the relationship between it and 
Mr M had broken down.
I appreciate that Mr M says he didnt receive the letters Barclaycard sent him. I have looked 
at all of the letters and Im satisfied they were correctly addressed but, in any event, I cant 
hold Barclaycard responsible for problems with the mail. And I think in any event Mr M was 
or ought to have been aware that he was required to make monthly repayments and that it 
likely his account would default if he didnt. I also think as I have explained that there was 
contact between the parties at the end of 2016 and Mr M ought to have been aware of the 
account position then and had previously in August 2016 told Barclaycard that he wanted to 
avoid a default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman