DRN-3112377
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy about the handling of her subsidence claim by Aviva Insurance Limited.
Ms G does have a representative working on her behalf, but Ill refer to Ms G throughout this
decision.
What happened
Ms G first made a subsidence claim in 2008. The claim was accepted, and loss adjusters 
appointed. Several areas towards the rear of the property were accepted as damaged by 
subsidence and neighbouring trees were noted as causing the damage. The neighbour who 
owned the trees reduced them by 50% but didnt remove them. The repair works were done 
in 2011.
Unfortunately, problems returned and again the trees were given as the reason. The 
neighbour at this stage did remove the trees. After this point more site visits, monitoring and 
reports were undertaken. Aviva said the 2014 scope of works was still the valid one after it 
reviewed the property in late 2019. Whereas Ms G wanted Aviva to agree to carry out the 
scope in line with a report she arranged through surveyor P. As Aviva wouldnt agree to 
this Ms G brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Aviva should settle the claim on a fair and 
reasonable basis through a revised schedule of works which he then worked through in turn 
room by room. In conclusion he said if Aviva wished to cash settle it should do so in line with 
the revised schedule he worked through.
In a recent provisional decision I said:
Ill go through the areas of the property along the same lines as our investigator did. But Im 
not sure all the issues were included so Ive mentioned all areas that I think might still need 
to be dealt with.
Bathroom
It was accepted that some re-grouting was required due to cracking. But agreement couldnt 
be reached on how much. I think our investigator suggested the right outcome here. Its clear 
that the parties accept the cracking is due to the claim. So, in line with our usual approach 
the damaged area should be repaired, and Aviva should also pay 50% towards the cost of 
re-grouting the rest of the wall due to Ms G suffering a loss of match. The April 2019 scope 
allowed for crack repairs, redecoration of the ceiling and adjusting the door too. I think thats 
reasonable.
Bedroom to single storey rear extension
Repairs were agreed in line with the draft scope for minor crack repairs and redecoration. I 
think thats fair. The was no agreement regarding the floor and theres no details of a link to 
the subsidence claim with the floor so I dont think the floor needs to be included within any 
claim repair.
Kitchen
On the one hand Aviva said this room suffered water damage and the repairs to it were 
carried out by Ms Gs contractors. But in the April 2019 scope it said this allowed for crack 
repairs and redecoration to walls and ceiling. So, I think it would be fair if Aviva did this.
Sitting room/ Dining room
Again, Aviva said this room was affected by the water damage and repaired by Ms Gs 
contractors, but the April 2019 report confirmed this room was included for crack repairs to 
walls and ceilings so I think Aviva needs to do this.
Rear bedroom to main house
Ps report said subsidence was the most likely cause of the damage to this room. P said the 
beam had been compromised. Aviva said it couldnt find any records of this room previously 
being part of the subsidence claim. Aviva said the sagging ceiling, plaster and cornice was 
all wear and tear. But the April 2019 scope did allow for crack repairs and redecoration to 
walls and ceiling. It included the point that reoccurring damage would be Ms Gs 
responsibility for general wear and tear issues. So, I Think Aviva needs to do what the scope 
of work said it would do.
Front lounge which is used as bedroom
Ps report said cracks had been re-opened and even the completed repairs were still visible. 
But to counter that Aviva said its contractors hadnt done the repair work and it hadnt been 
included in the previous claim. Aviva said there was no link as it was remote from the area of 
subsidence damage and was consistent with general material shrinkage. The April 2019 
report said similar, it also said the cracking to the right side of the chimney was shrinkage 
related. But it also concluded The scope allows for repairs to this room which will be 
honoured on this basis. However, any reoccurring damage associated with general wear & 
tear will be the responsibility of the homeowners. Aviva should do as the scope said.
Rear elevation of the single storey rear extension
Both parties accept this was the worst affected area in the original claim. And it is accepted 
that the standard of repair was poor. The parties agree the damage below the bathroom 
window is likely to be subsidence damage too. P said that good building practice means if 
render cant be matched it should be stripped back to the nearest corner bead. Aviva said its 
previous scope offer of localised crack repairs and repainting to render was in line with 
building regulations due to the small size of the cracks. I think Avivas previous scope is 
therefore the reasonable outcome.
Left flank of rear addition and front elevation
Theres agreement that the paint is flaking and the work done here was poor. Aviva said this 
wasnt part of the subsidence claim repair. Aviva reported there was no significant crack 
damage to indicate the front of the property was affected by recent or ongoing subsidence 
movement. Aviva continued The minor cracking visible are consistent with thermal induced 
shrinkage of the render. But on saying this in April 2019 Aviva did say in its report The 
scope allows for repairs and repainting of the front elevation  this will be allowed on this 
occasion as a goodwill gesture however, it is worth noting that any reoccurring damage associated with general wear & tear will be the responsibility of the homeowners. I think this 
is fair.
Front right hand corner
There is an area of brickwork behind the rainwater downpipe where the pointing has eroded. 
Ps report said this should be repaired. Aviva said the damage where was wear and tear 
and again confirmed that it wasnt linked to a previous subsidence claim. I dont Aviva needs 
to take action on this point.
Concrete hard standing to the right hand side of the rear addition
Aviva said there was previous patch repairs carried out to the concrete paving. It said the 
cracking is linked to normal movement of the subsoil beneath ground bearing concrete slab 
which has been cast without allowance for suitable expansion joints and without one 
consistency. Ms G said the specified repairs from before had not been undertaken. She 
said Aviva had arranged a cheaper, unsatisfactory repair which was defective. I think the fact 
the damage has returned here suggests Ms G has a point. I think Aviva needs to carry out 
what it suggested in the April 2019 report, it said the scope only allows to break up and 
renew 17m2 of 100mm thick concrete. I think the offer within this scope is fair and 
reasonable.
Right hand side elevation to the two storey rear addition
The April 2019 report from Aviva said there was crack damage below the first floor window 
that was subsidence related. It also mentioned minor cracking either side of the bay 
projection and the kitchen door, but these were consistent with general shrinkage. The 
scope allows for appropriate localised crack repairs and painting of the render. I think thats 
fair.
Avivas specification did also allow for repairs to the apron wall to the right side bay 
projection to the rear addition And went on to say that it should still deal with matters in line 
with the scope of works from 2014. I think in addition to the points Ive raised above this is 
reasonable.
Ms G would like Ps report costs paid for. But Im not sure P has really added much to the 
debate. So, I dont require Aviva to pay this.
I note Aviva would like to offer a cash settlement. I accept it can do this. Ms G would prefer 
to use her own contractor D to do the work. The difference in amounts between Avivas 
contractors and D is large so I think Aviva should confirm how much it is willing to pay before 
Ms G decides if she wants the cash of if she would like Avivas contractors to do the work. I 
think thats fair in Ms Gs circumstances.
Just to list them the areas where work is required in relation to this complaint:
Bathroom;
Bedroom to single storey rear extension;
Kitchen;
Sitting room/Dining room;
Rear bedroom to main house;
Front lounge used as a bedroom;
Rear elevation of the single storey rear extension;
Left flank of rear addition and front elevation;Concrete hard standing to the right hand side of the rear addition;
Right hand side elevation to the two storey rear addition;
Apron wall to the right side bay projection to the rear addition.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms Gs representative provided an extensive response, but Ill refer only to the main facts as 
I see them:
The work done by Avivas suppliers was defective or negligent  this was highlighted 
with photos of a frieze to the rear bedroom ceiling of the main house having to be 
propped up as otherwise it will fall down and should be included in the repair;
Aviva should be made to pay repair rates that apply to Ms G having the works done 
herself by her own choice of contractor without discounts being applied;
Inferior and incorrect coating applied to the property exterior and poorly applied, needs to 
be stripped and stabilised before recoating;
Patch repair to the rear elevation has failed and caused further damage by de-bonding 
the remaining render;
The costs evaluation and specification has been left to Aviva or their nominated supplier 
despite previous poor works that led to the complaint  this is likely to lead to a further 
complaint;
Aviva should be instructed to appoint a professional independent qualified surveyor to 
produce a specification and scope of works based on details provided by this service;
Tenders should be invited from local reputable main contractors;
The final repair has never happened as Aviva keep disputing the schedule;
Theres no compensation awarded for Ms Gs distress and inconvenience.
Aviva didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The response from Ms G shows her strength of feeling on this claim. I think thats perfectly 
understandable in view of how long it has been going on for. But the response hasnt really 
addressed the points I laid out in my provisional decision. The response doesnt explain why 
these points are being picked up now. The dispute has been going on for such a long time I 
dont think it would be fair to involve other issues such as the frieze at this stage. One point 
raised was that another complaint might follow. But if there are other areas of work that 
havent been considered under this complaint from the start and are now a problem, I think it 
is only fair that Aviva get the opportunity to review and consider these.
There wasnt an answer to my question around Ms G accepting Avivas cash settlement or 
for Aviva to do the repairs. Instead further points were made suggesting a cash offer should 
be to the amount it would cost contractors selected by Ms G. However, Aviva hasnt 
responded to confirm how much it would be willing to pay. Based on this I think it would be 
fair for Aviva to offer a cash settlement for the items covered by my provisional decision 
listed above in line with Ms Gs contractor (D) costs.
I did consider if a compensation amount should be paid in this case. But I dont think the 
points I raised have really been answered so I dont think I can make an award based on the 
evidence Ive seen.Based on everything else Ive reviewed to reach my provisional decision I dont see anything 
that suggests I should change it.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay for repairs in line with its scope of works and my details above on the 
following areas:
Bathroom;
Bedroom to single storey rear extension;
Kitchen;
Sitting room/Dining room;
Rear bedroom to main house;
Front lounge used as a bedroom;
Rear elevation of the single storey rear extension;
Left flank of rear addition and front elevation;
Concrete hard standing to the right hand side of the rear addition;
Right hand side elevation to the two storey rear addition;
Apron wall to the right side bay projection to the rear addition.
This should be done based on a cash settlement for costs provided and evidence by D  Ms 
Gs chosen contractor.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay for repairs in line with its scope of works and my 
details above on the following areas:
Bathroom;
Bedroom to single storey rear extension;
Kitchen;
Sitting room/Dining room;
Rear bedroom to main house;
Front lounge used as a bedroom;
Rear elevation of the single storey rear extension;
Left flank of rear addition and front elevation;
Concrete hard standing to the right hand side of the rear addition;
Right hand side elevation to the two storey rear addition;
Apron wall to the right side bay projection to the rear addition.
This should be done based on a cash settlement for costs provided and evidence by D  Ms 
Gs chosen contractor.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman