DRN-4241091
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated him unfairly when he asked it to help him 
obtain a refund.
What happened
Mr G used his debit card with Lloyds Bank PLC to book accommodation with a supplier. Ill 
refer to the supplier as Q. As it turned out, Mr Gs circumstances changed and he could no 
longer use the accommodation, so he tried to cancel his booking and claim a refund. 
However, Q cancelled the booking but would not give Mr G his money back. Rather it 
charged him a cancellation fee which equated to 100% of what hed paid for the booking. Q 
indicated that it was entitled to do this under the booking conditions that Mr G had agreed to. 
Mr G disagreed with Qs stance. Therefore Mr G looked to Lloyds Bank to help him get a 
refund.
Lloyds Bank said it could use a process known as chargeback to help Mr G get his money 
back (Ill explain the ins and outs of chargeback below in the what Ive decided and why 
section). Initially Lloyds Bank provisionally refunded Mr Gs money. But then once Q 
defended the chargeback, Lloyds Bank decided there was no point in continuing with the 
chargeback. This was because Qs defence was strong enough, in Lloyds Banks estimation, 
to mean that Lloyds Bank had no realistic prospect of succeeding with the chargeback. It told 
Mr G this and redebited the money from Mr Gs account.
Mr G was unhappy with Lloyds Banks response. In his opinion it didnt investigate his 
complaint properly given all the information he gave it.
Dissatisfied, Mr G complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Lloyds Bank accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr G did not. In rejecting our 
investigators recommendation Mr G repeated his previous stance. He added that he never 
asked Lloyds Bank to do a chargeback rather he asked it to investigate and make sure he 
got a refund. He explained some of the emails Lloyds Bank sent him went to his spam folder.  
He indicated that  if hed been able to respond sooner to those emails from Lloyds Bank hed 
have given it information that would have meant hed get his refund. Mr G explained that due 
to what he sees as Lloyds Banks mistakes in handling the chargeback his credit file has 
been adversely impacted. Mr G points out that in his opinion Q has not done what it says it 
was going to do and what it should have done according to their contract.
Mr G asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
As Mr G paid for the accomodation using his debit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether Lloyds Bank dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback 
process is relevant in this case although I acknowledge that Mr G does not agree.
Chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Lloyds Bank to ask for a payment 
Mr G made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied or as described/misrepresented by the company  Mr G paid. 
There is no guarantee that a chargeback will succeed, and it can be opposed or defended by 
the financial institution which received the card payment (it will represent the merchant), who 
may not agree that the chargeback is valid. If no side to a chargeback is willing to concede 
then the card scheme itself can be asked to make a ruling by a process known as arbitration. 
I would expect a debit card provider, approached by a customer looking to dispute a card 
payment for goods or services, to consider whether it had valid grounds for raising a 
chargeback, and to do so if it would appear that a chargeback would both be compliant with 
the card scheme rules and have reasonable prospects of succeeding. As part of its 
approach Id also expect the debit card provider to select the right chargeback reason code.
Therefore it follows that if I am to order Lloyds Bank to refund all or part of the cost of the 
accommodation, I must be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback 
claim under the chargeback regulations. Ive looked at what Lloyds Bank did, and the 
relevant regulations and I think Lloyds Bank acted correctly. Ill explain why I say this below.
From the information Ive seen Mr G had no automatic right to a refund under the terms of 
his contract with Q. Rather, in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, Q had the right to 
charge Mr G a 100% cancellation fee, which in reality meant hed get no refund. There was a 
caveat to this, in that at a future date, Mr G might be eligible for a partial refund if certain 
condition was met, Ill call this the qualifying condition. However, at the date of the 
chargeback that future date had not been reached and it was not clear if the qualifying 
condition would be met or not. 
It is not clear if Mr G is disputing the relevance of the terms of his contract with Q to the 
chargeback. Or if he is saying that these were not terms on which he contracted. Certainly 
Mr G has not provided alternative contractual terms. But in either case Im satisfied, in the 
circumstances that he did contract with Q on these terms, and they were relevant to the 
chargeback.
Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank chose the correct chargeback reason code. I am also satisfied 
that in the circumstances the defence put forward by Q would have been a complete bar to 
the chargeback succeeding even if Lloyds Bank had taken the option to go to arbitration. I take on board that Mr G did not ask for a chargeback he just wanted Lloyds Bank to help 
him get a refund. But there was no other mechanism that Lloyds Bank could reasonably 
have used to help Mr G get a refund.
Moreover, Lloyds Bank is not to blame that some of its emails ended up in his spam folder. 
Neither am I satisfied that on balance, if this had not happened, Mr G could have provided 
information that would have overturned Qs defence.
It is regrettable that Mr Gs credit file has been negatively impacted because the chargeback 
did not succeed, but that was an unavoidable consequence of the chargeback failing and of 
the fact that Mr G contracted with Q. Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank made it clear what the 
consequences of a failed chargeback could be, and even if it did not, Mr G would still have 
experienced this consequence. Moreover, Lloyds Bank is not responsible for the 
consequences of Mr G contracting with Q.
It may be that since the chargeback failed Q has breached its contract with Mr G. I make no 
finding about that, as I have no power to do so. However, chargeback is not a forum for 
enforcing Mr Gs contractual rights. Rather as Ive already indicated, what Im looking at is 
whether Lloyds Bank acted correctly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the 
chargeback regulations
I know this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. I can see from what Mr G has told us that 
he sees wrongdoing in almost everything Lloyds Bank has done, or not done. Thats 
understandable when you are as close to the situation as Mr G is. But I have a different 
remit; I have to look at all the evidence provided by both sides, not just listen to Mr Gs 
version of events. And, after reviewing everything in detail, on the basis of all of the 
information Ive seen, Im unable to find Lloyds Bank has treated Mr G unfairly. 
It follows that for all of these reasons, I find that Lloyds Bank acted appropriately.  Therefore, 
Ive no proper basis for saying Lloyds Bank has to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman