DRN-1655789
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA), trading as Fiat Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs D acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and this service is therefore able to consider complaints about it.
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCA, who 
are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs D. The car 
here was a little over a year old and had completed about 14,500 miles when it was supplied 
to Mrs D so I would not think a reasonable person would expect much wear and tear to be 
present.
mechanical issues
Mrs D has reported a number of mechanical issues. But Im not persuaded that any of the 
these were present or developing at the point of supply
I dont think a fault with the gearbox or transmission has been identified. Im persuaded here 
by the independent inspectors report as he could not find any problem in this area.
I can see that the driveshaft was replaced about a year after Mrs D took receipt of the car. 
The work appears to have been completed at no cost to Mrs D and, as such a long time had 
elapsed, I dont think it would be fair to suggest the drive shaft was either faulty or 
developing a fault when Mrs D took receipt of the car.
Similarly, I think brake discs and pads are wear and tear items and Im not persuaded that 
their replacement suggests they were faulty at the point the car was supplied. I think its 
more likely that they were wearing in line with expectations.
Mrs D has reported that the car is now over revving, and the independent inspector 
confirmed that. But he didnt suggest the fault was likely to have been developing or present 
at the point the car was supplied, and Im therefore not persuaded FCA are responsible for 
rectifying the issue. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs D was struggling to update her satellite navigation maps, but Im 
not persuaded this was a problem with the car that had been supplied as it appears to have 
been a registration issue that should be resolved with the dealership.
the damage to the car
Mrs D has explained that photographs provided before she took receipt of the car didnt 
show the damage and that she took the car away in the night time when it may not have 
been visible.
She complained to the dealership about the damaged paintwork and they accepted that it 
had been there when they supplied the car to Mrs D and that they would therefore fix it.
Mrs D asked to reject the car at that point, 20 days after taking receipt of the vehicle. She 
had a right to reject the car at that time as it was within the first 30 days. Mrs D has 
explained that the dealership said she could not reject the car. But it is clear that she 
eventually accepted repairs to the damaged paintwork a few days later as Ive seen an email 
to this affect.
Im persuaded the repairs werent satisfactory as I can see the independent inspector noted 
the damage in his report, produced in January 2020. 
I dont think its fair to ask FCA to allow Mrs D to reject the car for this reason, as I think its 
clear she accepted repairs in 2018. But its also not fair for the car to still have signs of 
damage because Mrs D is expected to return the car in a good condition at the end of her 
hire term and, in its current state, I think FCA would be asking her to pay to have the 
damage refurbished and as the damage was clearly present when Mrs D took receipt of the 
car that cant be reasonable.
So, Ive thought about what FCA should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Mrs Ds relationship with the dealership close to home has broken down and I think she 
should therefore be allowed to get the damage repaired at a local body shop upon FCAs 
approval of a quotation for the work.
The independent inspector thought the rattling from the left-hand door was likely to have 
been caused by the accident damage that Im asking FCA to repair. So, I think when 
completing the repair, they should also ensure the clicking from the left front door is resolved 
for Mrs D.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd to repair the bodywork at a reputable local body shop on production of a 
reasonable quote from Mrs D. They should ensure that the repair includes a rectification of 
the clicking noise noted on the left front door.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman