DRN-4061853
The complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) mismanaged his Section 32 
buy-out (S32) policy which has led to him being unable to access any pension benefits until 
age 65 in October 2024. He believes he was entitled to access pension benefits from age 62 
and that, by denying him access until age 65, Phoenix is unfairly withholding pension income 
of £8,228.16 per year for the three-year period between age 62 and 65.
Mr Ds S32 policy was originally provided by another company which was subsequently 
acquired by Phoenix. For ease of reading, Ill refer to Phoenix throughout this final decision.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr D and Phoenix. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr D was a member of his former employers defined benefits (DB) pension scheme which 
was contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). To ensure 
that members didnt lose out by being contracted out of SERPS, the DB pension scheme 
promised to pay them a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) broadly equivalent to the 
amount they wouldve received had they stayed contracted in to SERPS. In Mr Ds case, his 
GMP entitlement was £8,228.16 per year from age 65.
In 1992, Mr D was advised by a business unconnected to Phoenix to transfer the value of his 
preserved benefits in the DB pension scheme to a S32 policy provided by Phoenix. The S32 
policy had a selected retirement age of 62 in October 2021 to mirror the normal retirement 
age under the DB pension scheme. Mr Ds GMP entitlement was transferred to the S32 
policy  this meant that, as a minimum, Phoenix was contractually required to pay his GMP 
entitlement of £8,228.16 per year from age 65 although it could potentially pay it earlier 
under certain circumstances. The transfer value of £16,442 paid to the S32 policy was 
invested in Phoenixs with-profits fund.
In 2000, the business that sold the S32 policy to Mr D was required to review the sale under 
the industry-wide pensions review instigated by the then regulator. It was determined that 
the S32 policy had been mis-sold which resulted in the business that sold it applying a 
compensation payment of £19,490.79 to Mr Ds S32 policy on 29 August 2000.
As Mr D approached his 62nd birthday in October 2021 he contacted Phoenix to request 
payment of his pension benefits from his S32 policy  he thought that because the selected 
retirement age under the policy was 62 (which mirrored the DB pension scheme) that 
Phoenix would start paying benefits from that age. However, Phoenix rejected Mr Ds 
request because there was insufficient money in his S32 policy to secure his GMP 
entitlement at that time.
This led to Mr D complaining about the sale of the S32 policy. Phoenix didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. It explained that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy which, in any 
event, had previously been reviewed under the industry-wide pensions review. It also 
explained that since there was insufficient money in his S32 policy to secure his GMP 
entitlement at that time, it couldnt pay him any benefits in line with the terms and conditions 
of his policy. It confirmed that it was only contractually required to pay his GMP entitlement 
from age 65 onwards. In its final response letter issued on 17 November 2021, Phoenix told 
Mr D that if he was dissatisfied with its response he could refer the matter to this service  
but that he must do so within six months of the date of that letter, which he didnt do.
This complaint
In July 2022, Mr D submitted a fresh complaint to Phoenix setting out 13 separate points. 
The first 10 points essentially repeated Mr Ds previous complaint raised in 2021 about not 
being able to draw benefits from his S32 policy before age 65. The final three points related 
to the management and investment performance of his S32 policy and Phoenixs complaint 
handling. To resolve this complaint he requested that Phoenix either immediately allow him 
to transfer the value of his S32 policy to an alternative provider or pay him his GMP 
entitlement.
Phoenix upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. It rejected the first 10 points of Mr Ds complaint 
because it had already addressed these in its final response letter of 17 November 2021. It 
also rejected the element of his complaint relating to the management and investment 
performance of his S32 policy. However, it agreed that it had provided a poor level of service 
in connection with its handling of his complaint  it apologised and offered to pay him £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this.
Mr D didnt accept Phoenixs response and referred the matter to this service. He said that 
the GMP part of his S32 policy wasnt explained to him when he started it in 1992. He said it 
was unfair of Phoenix to prevent him from accessing benefits from age 62 and that it had lied 
to him about when and how he could take benefits. He believed that the reason the value of 
his policy was insufficient to secure the GMP entitlement could be traced back to Phoenixs 
historic mismanagement and investment of his S32 policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She explained that, under our time limit 
rules, she couldnt assess his complaint points previously addressed under Phoenixs final 
response letter issued on 17 November 2021 because he had referred the matter too late to 
this service (and she wasnt aware of any exceptional circumstances that had prevented him 
from doing so). Regarding the management and investment performance of the S32 policy, 
she explained that the economic and regulatory situation is very different now from what it 
was when the S32 policy was sold in 1992, which had resulted in returns being lower than 
was reasonably expected at the time. She concluded that she hadnt seen any evidence 
Phoenix had mismanaged his S32 policy or treated him unfairly. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided comments in response. He 
essentially reiterated his previous complaint points. He said that the exceptional 
circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic had prevented him from referring his previous 
complaint to this service within six months of Phoenixs final response letter of                                
17 November 2021. He continued to believe that Phoenix was acting unfairly and hiding 
behind clauses in the terms and conditions of his S32 policy to prevent him transferring away 
or accessing any benefits until age 65. Our investigator considered Mr Ds comments but 
wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services time limits
There are various rules set out in the FCA's Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook 
(DISP) that govern whether this Service has jurisdiction over the complaints that are 
brought to us. The criteria set out in these rules must be satisfied before any consideration of 
the merits of a complaint can be attempted. DISP 2.8.3 G states:
The six-month time limit is only triggered by a response which is a final response, 
redress determination or summary resolution communication. The response must tell 
the complainant about the six-month time limit that the complainant has to refer a 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP 2.8.4 G provides further information about the exceptional circumstances referred to 
under DISP 2.8.2 R (3), as follows:
An example of exceptional circumstances might be where the complainant has been 
or is incapacitated.
Phoenixs final response letter issued on 17 November 2021 describes and deals with            
Mr Ds complaint about not being able to access benefits in his S32 policy before age 65. 
This is essentially the same issue about which he later complained to Phoenix during 2022 
and later referred to this service. Im satisfied, therefore, that the complaint referred to this 
service in September 2022 is largely about the same issues to which Phoenix responded on 
17 November 2021. Given the date of that final response letter, Mr D had until 17 May 2022 
to refer to this service his complaint about not being able to access benefits before age 65. 
However, he didnt contact us until September 2022. Phoenix has made it clear that it 
doesnt consent to this service considering these complaint points outside of the six-month 
timescale.
Ive considered whether any exceptional circumstances apply in this case that may have 
prevented Mr D from referring his complaint in time. Although the term exceptional 
circumstances isnt fully defined within the DISP rules, the example given refers to a 
consumer being incapacitated. In short, the bar for determining circumstances as 
exceptional is set high. Mr D told our investigator that the Covid-19 pandemic prevented him 
from referring his complaint to this service within six months of 17 November 2021. The 
basis of his point is that the pandemic was the biggest global event since the Second World 
War and so, to his mind, that qualified as exceptional circumstances. While I understand              
Mr Ds point, he hasnt explained or provided any evidence that sets out the exceptional 
circumstances that specifically prevented him from referring the matter to us by                              
17 May 2022. Therefore, I see no reason to conclude that exceptional circumstances applied 
to his personal situation. As a result, its my decision that I cannot consider the merits of                 
Mr Ds complaint points previously addressed under Phoenixs final response letter issued 
on 17 November 2021  these essentially deal with his complaint about not being able to 
transfer away or draw benefits from his S32 policy before age 65.
 
What complaint points can I consider?
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so isnt something this service can consider. 
I share our investigators view that the only complaint points this service can consider relate 
to Phoenixs management and investment performance of his S32 policy  Ive set out below 
my findings on these points.
To be clear, Phoenix isnt responsible for the advice Mr D received in 1992 to transfer to the S32 policy. That advice was provided by an unconnected business which later reviewed its 
advice and paid compensation of £19,490.79 to Mr Ds S32 policy on 29 August 2000. 
Phoenix is solely responsible for administration and paying benefits to Mr D in line with the 
terms and conditions of the S32 policy.
While I cannot consider the merits of Mr Ds earlier complaint, I think it would be helpful if I 
explain the features, risks, and benefits of his S32 policy  including the impact of 
investment performance  with the aim of helping him understand why he cannot access any 
benefits until age 65.
Mr D has a S32 policy with Phoenix. These plans were introduced in Section 32 of the 
Finance Act 1981. While that legislation was repealed years ago, the old label is still used 
today. S32 policies allowed the trustees of a DB pension scheme to wind up that pension, 
transferring the value of the members benefits into individual plans. They also allowed 
former employees with preserved benefits to transfer away into an individual policy, as 
happened in Mr Ds case in 1992. S32 policies can only be set up by transferring away from 
DB pension schemes. They cannot accept new money from the policyholder.
Many S32 policies were invested in with-profits funds, as appears to be the case here, 
especially when the policy included a GMP liability like Mr Ds S32 policy. The benefits 
payable in the future would be dependent on investment returns and annuity rates applicable 
at retirement which werent guaranteed  but a key component of Mr Ds policy was his 
entitlement to a GMP. By taking on the S32 policy, Phoenix agreed to pay his GMP 
entitlement of £8,228.16 at age 65 regardless of the investment performance of his policy. If 
there is a surplus in funds after the GMP is secured, this can be used to provide benefits 
such as tax-free cash and additional income. However, there was always the risk that (even 
if this risk seemed remote at the time of sale in 1992) the policy would only provide the GMP 
from age 65 (for males).
In many cases this service sees, the S32 policy only pays the GMP with no other benefits 
because the fund value isnt enough to cover the cost of the GMP let alone provide 
additional benefits. And this appears to be the case for Mr D. The investment performance 
achieved by his S32 policy since 1992 and lower than expected annuity rates means that 
there is currently a shortfall in his fund value to secure his GMP entitlement  as a result, 
Phoenix is unable to let him draw benefits before age 65. I havent seen any evidence that 
Phoenix mismanaged the underlying with-profits fund of the S32 policy. If its the case that a 
shortfall remains at age 65 then Phoenix is contractually required to cover this so that Mr Ds 
GMP entitlement of £8,228.16 per year is provided. This is the only contractual obligation 
Phoenix have and is a function of how the S32 policy works. It wasnt set up to replicate the 
benefits of the DB pension scheme in its entirety and so there isnt any contractual 
requirement for Phoenix to pay benefits from age 62.
Therefore, while I understand why Mr D is clearly frustrated, I dont agree that Phoenix is 
unfairly withholding pension income for the three-year period between age 62 and 65, as           
Mr D believes.
Phoenix historically provided some generic information to Mr D about the benefits that 
might be payable from his S32 policy, but this was couched in general terms and wasnt 
specific to his policy. I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude Phoenix didnt 
administer the S32 policy correctly or that it led Mr D to reasonably believe that he could 
start drawing his GMP entitlement earlier than age 65. So, Im not persuaded he was misled 
about the benefits payable.
S32 policies arent simple and straightforward. I can understand why theres been some 
confusion but Im satisfied that Phoenix has correctly managed and explained the nature of the policy to Mr D. Overall, I havent seen any evidence that Phoenix made an error or 
treated Mr D unfairly. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Phoenix to pay compensation to Mr D  or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman