DRN-4180972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that mistakes by more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home 
Finance meant they ended up paying a much higher interest rate on their lifetime mortgage 
than they should have done.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T applied for a lifetime mortgage  a form of equity release  through a broker in 
early 2022. They wanted to repay their existing interest only mortgage, and raise funds to 
cover future medical expenses and to plan for inheritance tax mitigation. 
After considering Mr and Mrs Ts application and a valuation of their property more 2 life 
issued an offer on 31 March 2022. The offer was for borrowing of £684,000 at an interest 
rate of 3.11% fixed for life. After an extension, the offer was due to expire on 23 June 2022.
Mr and Mrs T instructed solicitors and the process of arranging the mortgage continued, with 
a completion date set for 21 June 2022.
On 20 June, more 2 life realised that it had not included a special condition relating to 
buildings insurance on Mr and Mrs Ts property in the mortgage offer as it had intended to. It 
withdrew the offer and issued a new one, this time with the special condition. The interest 
rate  3.11% - was the same, as was the expiry date.
This left Mr and Mrs T and their solicitors only three working days to obtain the information 
more 2 life required, send it to more 2 lifes solicitors and wait for more 2 life to confirm it was 
acceptable. The mortgage couldnt complete until this was done.
Although Mr and Mrs T sent the required information to more 2 lifes solicitors on 20 June, 
the same day the new offer with the special condition was issued, more 2 lifes solicitors did 
not consider it until 23 June. The solicitors then asked further questions  although 
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors were able to provide answers, by then the offer had expired. 
more 2 life did not extend the offer further. Instead it issued a new offer, at the interest rate 
current at the time. This meant Mr and Mrs T would now be borrowing the same amount but 
at an interest rate of 4.58% fixed for life. It sent the new offer to Mr and Mrs T and their 
solicitors and broker on 7 July.
On 13 July Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors confirmed that Mr and Mrs T were happy to proceed 
with the new offer. Mr and Mrs T have since said that neither the solicitors nor the broker 
noticed, and so Mr and Mrs T werent informed, that the interest rate had been increased. All 
parties assumed, wrongly, that the new offer was on the same terms as the previous one. It 
was only after completion that Mr and Mrs T realised that the borrowing theyd taken was 
significantly more expensive than they were expecting.
Mr and Mrs T complained. more 2 life accepted that it had made an error in not including the 
special condition and then withdrawing the original offer at short notice. But it said it wasnt 
responsible for Mr and Mrs T ending up with a mortgage at a higher rate than they were 
expecting  it said their solicitors and broker should have realised that and made sure they 
understood what they were agreeing to before the mortgage completed. If Mr and Mrs T 
were unhappy with the new rate they would have had the choice of not completing on the 
mortgage  it was the fault of the solicitors and broker that Mr and Mrs T didnt have that 
choice. It therefore said that the solicitors and / or the broker were responsible for the extra 
interest Mr and Mrs T would pay over the life of the mortgage. 
But to recognise its part in what went wrong, more 2 life offered two options. It said it would 
pay Mr and Mrs T a lump sum of £15,000 if they chose to continue with the mortgage at 
4.58%. Or it would allow them to repay the money and exit the mortgage without early 
repayment charges or other costs, waiving all interest charged to date. 
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with that and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think more 2 life had made a fair offer to 
resolve their complaint. 
While she recognised that the solicitors and broker had failed to spot the increased interest 
rate and advise Mr and Mrs T of that, the investigator thought that ultimately more 2 life was 
responsible for the position theyd found themselves in. It was more 2 lifes fault that the 
3.11% interest rate was no longer available to them because it didnt include the special 
condition in the offer to start with, and then when it realised it didnt leave enough time for 
completion to take place before the offer expired. 
While the broker and solicitors could have made sure that Mr and Mrs T were aware of the 
mortgage they were actually taking, the investigator said that the 3.11% had already been 
unfairly removed by the time of that mistake. It was because of more 2 lifes error that 
Mr and Mrs T lost the chance to complete at that rate, and more 2 lifes error was at the root 
of what went wrong. She said that more 2 life should restructure their mortgage to reduce 
the interest rate to 3.11% and pay Mr and Mrs T £200 compensation.
more 2 life didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It said the 
solicitors and broker were to blame for Mr and Mrs T completing on a mortgage without 
understanding what they were agreeing to. It said that if the solicitors had identified this 
before completion more 2 life could have done something about it, such as an attempt to 
arrange a solution there and then  it was too late to change the mortgage after completion. 
It said it had made a fair offer and by rejecting it and bringing their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service Mr and Mrs T had chosen to continue with the 4.58% mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The offer of 31 March said that it was valid for 42 days  that is, until 12 May  and offered to 
lend Mr and Mrs T £684,000 at 3.11%. It included provision in the standard conditions that
We require you to have buildings insurance during this lifetime mortgage. Our 
interest must be noted on it.
The only special condition was that Mr and Mrs Ts previous mortgage would need to be 
redeemed on completion. The offer was later extended for a further 42 days, expiring 
23 June. 
On 21 April Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor wrote to them to advise on the contents of the mortgage 
offer  the letter drew their attention to the insurance requirement and asked Mr and Mrs T to give their solicitors a copy of the schedule of insurance with more 2 lifes interest noted. This 
was done and sent to more 2 lifes solicitors.
On 20 June more 2 life withdrew the offer and issued a new one. This was for the same 
borrowing and interest rate. It was valid for 42 days. This offer included a special condition 
that, because of the size of Mr and Mrs Ts property, their buildings insurance must be for at 
least 25% more than the reinstatement value set out in the mortgage valuation, and that their 
insurer should confirm it was aware of the size of the property and was providing standard 
cover with no special terms.
On the same day, 20 June, more 2 life issued a further offer on the same terms  but this 
time only valid for three days, until 23 June. This offer superseded the earlier one.
As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors provided information about the terms of their 
insurance, but following questions from more 2 lifes solicitor, this issue was only resolved on 
29 June, by which time the offer had expired.
A further offer was issued on 7 July, for £684,000 at 4.58%. This offer did not include the 
insurance special condition. 
I dont think more 2 life acted fairly and reasonably here. If it needed confirmation of Mr and 
Mrs Ts buildings insurance in specific terms, it should have made that clear from the start  
whether by a special condition or through enquiries via solicitors. It shouldnt have just 
withdrawn the offer at the last minute to add a special condition. 
And, having done so, more 2 life shouldnt then have issued a replacement offer that was 
only valid for three days, making it virtually impossible for Mr and Mrs T to provide the 
information it needed and be able to complete in time. 
more 2 life says that its offers are only valid for 84 days (42 days plus a maximum extension 
of 42 days), and therefore the offer could not run beyond 23 June. I dont find this at all 
persuasive. It might well be more 2 lifes policy that an offer does not run for longer than 84 
days. But thats not a regulatory or legal requirement. Its more 2 lifes choice to impose this 
limitation on its offers; it could  and in my view, acting fairly should  have put this policy 
aside to ensure that it treated Mr and Mrs T fairly in the specific circumstances of this case. It 
was more 2 lifes fault that this situation arose, and it was in more 2 lifes power to put it right. 
more 2 life hasnt explained the rationale for this policy, but it may be related to the 
requirements of its funders. But if so that wouldnt change my view. more 2 life is the lender 
and the firm that has the regulatory obligation to act fairly. That obligation doesnt change 
because more 2 life funds its lending in a particular way. It is for more 2 life to find a way to 
treat its customers fairly, and it is no answer to say that contractual arrangements it has 
chosen to enter into with a third party funder prevent it doing so. If the funder wasnt 
prepared to continue past 23 June, more 2 life ought to have continued at its own expense in 
recognition of its own error.
In any case, this wasnt a matter of extending an offer beyond 84 days. The March offer had 
been withdrawn and replaced with a new one on 20 June. The March offer couldnt have 
been extended past 23 June  past 84 days  because it no longer existed. If more 2 life is 
right about its policy, the new offer issued on 20 June should have been valid for 42 days 
(with the option of a further 42)  not three days. This is in fact what more 2 life did, and its 
not clear to me why it issued that offer only to withdraw it and replace it with an offer only 
valid for three days later the same day.
In my view, acting fairly and reasonably, more 2 life ought to have included the special condition from the start. And having discovered that it hadnt done so, acting fairly and 
reasonably it ought to have extended the original offer to give Mr and Mrs T a reasonable 
time to provide the information it required, or it ought to have ensured a new offer on the 
same terms that was open for a reasonable time was in place. Introducing a new 
requirement with three days to go, refusing to give Mr and Mrs T a reasonable time to satisfy 
this requirement, and then increasing the interest rate they would pay when they couldnt 
meet the deadline, was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In my view this failing is the sole cause of a mortgage at 3.11% no longer being available to 
Mr and Mrs T. Had more 2 life done either of those things  asked for the insurance 
information in a timely way, or allowed a reasonable time to provide it  the offer at 3.11% 
would not have expired before Mr and Mrs T could complete and they would have ended up 
on that mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors failed to notice that the replacement offer, issued in July, was at a 
higher interest rate. The solicitors therefore didnt advise Mr and Mrs T of that, and 
Mr and Mrs T gave authority to complete believing they were doing so at 3.11% not 4.58%. 
Clearly this should not have happened. But it was not the cause of Mr and Mrs T not getting 
a mortgage at 3.11%, as they ought to have done. The solicitors error meant that Mr and 
Mrs T did complete at 4.58% believing they were getting 3.11%, but it wasnt the reason 
3.11% was no longer available.
In my view, the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for more 2 life to restructure 
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage as if it had completed at 3.11%. The sole responsibility for that 
mortgage no longer being available to Mr and Mrs T lies with more 2 life, and as the lender 
more 2 life is the only party involved in this case which can put Mr and Mrs T back in the 
position they would have been in had nothing gone wrong.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that the solicitors error means more 2 life is not 
obliged to put things right for Mr and Mrs T in this way. The solicitors error was not the 
reason Mr and Mrs T were unable to get a mortgage at 3.11%. 
more 2 life says that the solicitors should have ensured Mr and Mrs T didnt complete on the 
mortgage at 4.58%, and because they did it is now too late to correct matters, and more 2 
life didnt have the opportunity to try and resolve things before completion. I dont accept 
that. more 2 life did have the opportunity to resolve things before completion  but it chose 
not to do so, issuing a new offer at 4.58% rather than extending or re-issuing the 3.11% 
offer. And it is not too late to correct matters  as the lender, more 2 life can vary the terms 
of the mortgage Mr and Mrs T ended up taking.
In my view, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to regard the solicitors error as removing or 
reducing the responsibility of more 2 life to put matters right. Nothing the solicitors did 
caused the loss of the 3.11% offer. At most, the solicitors could have prevented Mr and 
Mrs T taking the 4.58% mortgage  but that would have led to them not having the funds 
they needed to repay their existing mortgage; it would not have led to them being able to 
borrow from more 2 life at 3.11%. And by this time a mortgage at that rate would not have 
been available from other lenders either  so the solicitors did not prevent Mr and Mrs T 
mitigating their losses by applying to another lender either.
I think its fair and reasonable to regard more 2 lifes failure as the reason Mr and Mrs T 
didnt end up with the mortgage they should have done. Had the solicitors seen the interest 
rate on the new offer, and had Mr and Mrs T not completed and complained as a result, I 
would have directed more 2 life to reinstate the 3.11% offer. In other words, the outcome 
would have been the same; that more 2 life ought fairly to reinstate the 3.11% mortgage it 
should not have withdrawn. Considered in that light, the solicitors error ultimately made no difference to the overall outcome of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put matters right, more 2 life should amend the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage so that 
it is at an interest rate of 3.11% fixed for life. This should be backdated to the start of the 
mortgage, with the current balance being reduced to reflect the revised interest rate. Its error 
caused Mr and Mrs T distress and inconvenience  theyve accepted the investigators 
suggested award of £200, and I think thats fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct more 2 life Limited trading as 
Standard Life Home Finance to put matters right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman