DRN-3680705
The complaint
Miss V complains about charges when she returned her car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In December 2018 Miss V acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. She 
initially took the agreement over a period of two years. The agreement was then extended 
until July 2021.
In November 2021 the car was collected. Following this, a detailed inspection was done. 
MBFS then sent Miss V an invoice for the following damage to the car:
Bumper front scratched  £     210.00 
C post trim scuffed  £       35.00 
Door mirror housing left hand scratched  £       70.00 
Door right hand front dented  £     260.00 
Door right hand rear scratched  £     210.00 
Door shut inner left hand rear dented  £     130.00 
Door shut inner right hand rear dented  £     130.00 
Missing literature pack  £     115.75 
Parcel shelf strap broken  £       16.31 
Quarter panel right hand rear dented  £     260.00 
Seat base cover right hand front hole  £     222.05 
Seatback backing plate left hand front scratched  £       33.92 
Wing left hand front scratched  £     210.00 
Wing right hand front scratched  £     210.00 
Total  £ 2,113.03 
MBFS also invoiced Miss V £655.20, as it said the car had gone 6,825 miles over the 
mileage allowance. And it invoiced her £939.14 for additional days usage, as it said she had 
the car for 98 days past her contract end date.
Miss V was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. MBFS issued its final response in 
February 2022. It said, in summary, that it was satisfied all of the charges had been applied 
correctly. It said Miss V owed a total balance of £3,707.37.
Miss V remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. She said, in summary, 
that the damage to the car must have happened after she returned it and she wasnt happy 
with the charges.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in summary, that shed reviewed the evidence about the damage and felt 
this fell outside of fair wear and tear. She said she thought it was likely the damage occurred 
when Miss V had the car. And she thought the other charges had been fairly applied.
Miss V remained unhappy with this. She said a private inspection had been carried out a 
week before the car was collected which didnt note all of the damage, and the damage 
wasnt noted when the car was first collected.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss V complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Miss Vs complaint about MBFS. 
Miss V was charged for several different things, so Ill consider these in turn.
Damages
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Miss V for damage. Looking at the 
agreement she took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Miss V agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the 
VRS and she agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
Ill go on to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In relation to the bodywork, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Minor body dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that:
a)they are less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter
And the following is unacceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not brokenIve reviewed the photos from the inspection of the car. I can see four dents to the left hand 
rear inner door shut. I can see three dents to the right hand rear inner door shut. I can see 
on the right hand rear quarter panel that the light is reflected in a distorted patten in the 
section highlighted, so Im satisfied there is a dent over 15mm here. I can see a dent on the 
right hand front door which appears to be over 15mm and has gone through the paintwork.
Im satisfied all of these areas fall outside of the wear and tear guidance. It follows Im 
satisfied its reasonable to charge Miss V for these areas.
In relation to scratches, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/touch 
up.
The BVRLA says:
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out
Looking at the photos from the inspection, the front bumper has a clear and obvious scratch 
over 25mm. The left hand front wing has a scratch over 25 mm. The right hand front wing 
has a large and obvious scratch over 25mm. And the right hand rear door also has two 
scratches over 25mm. 
Im satisfied these areas fall outside of fair wear and tear.
The left hand door mirror has a large number of smaller scratches along the length of the top 
which are obvious and impact the appearance of the car. Im satisfied this isnt fair wear and 
tear.
It follows Im satisfied its fair to charge for these areas.
In relation to the interior, the VRS says the following isnt acceptable:
Burns to trim, seat covers, headlining and floor coverings requiring repair.
Stains or discolouration of a permanent nature.
Tears, cuts, rips, and holes through seat covers, headlining and floor covering.
Broken or damaged interior mouldings, trim pads, instrument panel, sun visor or 
headlining, etc.
Holes resulting from the removal of telephone accessory equipment.
Telephone fitting kits should be left in-situ wherever possible
The BVRLA says:
the interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, tears, 
dents or staining.
And:
interior fittings must be present, intact and free from damage
From the inspection photos, I can see scratches and scuff marks to the seatback backing 
plate. I can see the parcel shelf strap appears to be broken. I can see clear scuff marks to 
the C post trim. And I can see a hole in the seat base cover.Im satisfied all of these areas fall outside the guidance. And so MBFS can charge for these 
issues.
In relation to the missing items, the VRS says:
you must return the vehicle together with everything originally supplied with the vehicle: 
V5C log book (if applicable), spare/additional keys, transmitter and codes, alarm system, 
locking wheel nuts, vehicle handbook, complete service manual, charging cables (if 
applicable)
The BVRLA says:
all vehicle documentation must be intact and available; all documents must be present in 
the vehicle when its returned
I can see on the inspection that the literature pack is listed as missing. Given there are 
photos of the other items from the car, but not of this, I think its most likely this was the case. 
It follows Im satisfied MBFS can charge for this.
Ive gone on to consider what Miss V says here. She said she had an inspection carried out 
a week before the car was collected, and that no damage was noted on collection of the car. 
So, she says the damage must have occurred after the car was collected.
Ive reviewed the inspection Miss V mentioned. This is dated a few days before the car was 
collected. But, it is much less detailed than the inspection MBFS supplied. For instance, it 
contains no photos or videos of the car. But, that being said, it still identifies some of the 
same areas of damage as the later report. Thinking about this, I dont agree that because 
this inspection didnt note all of the damage later found that this means it wasnt present at 
this point. And, generally, Im more persuaded by the findings in the later inspection 
provided. 
Looking at the collection report, I agree with Miss V here that this doesnt note all the 
damage later invoiced. But, it doesnt appear to be a detailed inspection of the car. The 
condition of the interior and exterior is described as average. Both the interior and exterior 
are noted as dirty  so its possible some of the damage couldnt be seen at this point.
Whats key here, is that the later inspection took place only just over 24 hours later, and the 
mileage is only noted as one mile higher than when the car was collected.
Thinking about all of this, I think its much more likely that the damage to the car occurred 
during the roughly 3 years and 32,500 miles it covered when Miss V possessed it, rather 
than the 24 hours and single mile when the collection agent had it.
Considering everything here, what Miss V said doesnt change my opinion and I still think 
MBFS can charge her for the damage present.
Excess mileage
It doesnt seem to be in dispute here that Miss V went over her mileage allowance  but Ill 
add Im satisfied this was the case. 
The agreement she signed says:If you return the vehicle to us and you have exceeded the total permitted mileage, which is 
based on an annual permitted mileage of 10,000 miles, an excess mileage charge of 8.00p 
excluding VAT for each mile will be payable by you for each additional mile exceeding the 
total permitted mileage. Please refer to the Excess Mileage clause in your terms and 
conditions for more information.
If the vehicle is returned to us, we will calculate the total mileage (the "Total Mileage") 
travelled by the vehicle whilst in your possession (including the distance to the nominated 
defleet centre).
You will pay us a charge at the rate stated in this agreement, if and to the extent that the 
Total Mileage exceeds the total permitted mileage for the vehicle (calculated using the 
annual permitted mileage stated in this agreement for each year or part of year between the 
start date and the date of return).
Miss V hasnt raised any specific reasons or arguments for why the excess mileage charges 
shouldnt apply. 
Thinking about this, I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Miss V for excess 
mileage in line with the agreement she signed.
Additional days hire
MBFS explained in the invoice that Miss V had possession of the car for 98 days past the 
end of her contract. Its shown the extension ended on 17 July 2021. And the car was 
collected on 3 November 2021. This is 109 days  and so more than the 98 in the invoice. In 
its final response, MBFS explained the car had been returned 109 days late  and this is 
what shed been charged for.
So, I accept MBFS made a mistake in the invoice here  but this is minor and so I dont think 
it needs to take any action.
The key thing is that it isnt in dispute that the car was returned late. MBFS have explained 
collection agents and itself had attempted to contact Miss V on multiple occasions over 
various dates to arrange collection of the car, but this wasnt possible.
Thinking about all of this, I think its fair and reasonable that MBFS charged Miss V for the 
time she had possession of the car past her contract end date.
Conclusions
Id like to reassure Miss V that Ive carefully considered everything else shes said in relation 
to this complaint. But, Im satisfied all the charges have been fairly applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman