DRN-2816119
The complaint
Ms P complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have mishandled her legal 
expenses insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Amtrust use intermediaries to manage their legal expenses claims on their behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I note that Ms P has had various complaints with Amtrust, and has also raised other 
concerns after referring her complaint to this service. However, I should make clear that in 
this decision I am only considering the points of complaint addressed in Amtrusts final 
response letter of 4 January 2021. Anything that has occurred after this would need to be 
raised with Amtrust in the first instance and form the basis of a separate complaint.
I also note that several of Ms Ps concerns centre predominantly around the quality of the 
advice and service provided by the panel solicitors appointed by Amtrust. But as the 
investigator has already highlighted, Amtrust is the legal expenses insurance provider, not 
the suitably qualified expert dealing with the case. As such, our role is to assess the insurers 
handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their 
obligations reasonably, and dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of 
legal advice (unless it is patently wrong) or the actions of a law firm as this falls under the 
remit of the Legal ombudsman.
Ms P is unhappy that she was not able to choose her own solicitor to assess her claim and 
take it forwards, as Amtrust would only allow her to appoint one of their preferred panel 
solicitors. 
The policy terms and conditions outline the circumstances where a policyholder will be able 
to choose their own solicitor:
Where it is necessary to start court proceedings or a conflict of interest arises, and 
you wish to nominate a legal representative to act for you, you may do so. Where you 
have elected to use a legal representative of your own choice, you will be responsible 
for any advisers costs in excess of our standard advisers costs. 
Im satisfied this policy term is consistent with Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies 
(Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the 1990 Regulations), which provide a 
policyholder with the freedom to choose their own solicitor, but only in certain circumstances:
(1) Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or 
other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or 
serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be 
free to choose that lawyer (or other person).
(2) The insured shall also be free to choose a lawyer (or other person having such 
qualifications as may be necessary) to serve his interests whenever a conflict of 
interest arises.
At the time Ms P made her claim, there was no legal inquiry, and nor had any proceedings 
been issued. Ive also not been made aware of any conflict of interest, so she would not 
have been entitled to choose her own solicitor at that point to carry out a legal assessment of 
her claim. The policy terms also state that If a claim is accepted under this insurance, we 
will appoint our panel solicitors or their agents to handle your case. Therefore, I do not 
consider Amtrust have acted unfairly by saying that Ms P would not be able to appoint her 
own solicitor, as she was not entitled to this in line with the policy terms and conditions or the 
1990 Regulations. 
Amtrust appointed panel solicitors to undertake a legal assessment of Ms Ps claim. It is a 
common requirement found in the vast majority of legal expenses insurance policies that a 
claim must enjoy reasonable prospects of success in order to qualify for cover, and 
Amtrusts policy is no different:
Prospects of Success
There must be more than a 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. A positive outcome includes, but is not limited to, recovering the amount of 
money at stake, enforcing a judgment or achieving an outcome which best serves 
your interests. The assessment of your claim and the prospects of success will be 
carried out by an independent advisor. If the adviser determines that there is not 
more than a 50% chance of success then we may decline or discontinue support for 
your case.
Ms P is unhappy with the time taken for her prospects assessment to be issued, as Amtrust 
told her it could take between 5-10 days. I appreciate that she considered this to be a time-
sensitive issue, as she was seeking an interim injunction to prevent her neighbours from 
carrying out any further building work to their property. However, the insurer is entitled to 
assess the claim first before agreeing to cover any legal action under the policy, and this 
assessment needs to be carried out by a legally qualified professional, such as a solicitor. 
As outlined above, I cannot comment on the actions of the solicitors in this decision, or the 
time it took them to issue the assessment. But I dont think Amtrust have acted unreasonably 
by telling Ms P that she would need to wait 5-10 days for it. It can take time for a solicitor to 
fully assess the prospects of a legal dispute to determine whether it meets the policy criteria 
for cover. And in the circumstances, I dont consider 5-10 days to be an unreasonable 
timeframe in which to allow for the legal assessment to be completed, as all solicitors will 
need a reasonable amount of time to review all the documentation. Indeed, in some 
instances it can often take a lot longer for an assessment to be completed, depending on the 
complexity of the claim. 
The solicitors determined, based on the information they had, that Ms Ps claim for an 
interim injunction order was not likely to succeed, so it didnt have the necessary prospects of success required under the policy for the claim to be covered by Amtrust. The solicitors 
said that expert evidence would be required to demonstrate that Ms Ps neighbours building 
work posed an imminent or real risk to her property.
I appreciate that Ms P may not agree with the solicitors legal assessment of her claim. But 
as it stands, she hasnt submitted a more favourable assessment to show that her claim 
does have sufficient prospects of success in excess of 50%. 
Our service is not able to consider the quality of the legal advice the solicitors have provided. 
And generally, we consider it fair for an insurer to rely on the advice of appropriately qualified 
legal professionals, unless there is anything to suggest that the legal advice provided was 
patently wrong, such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on it. However, there is 
nothing in this case to suggest that the legal advice was patently wrong, so theres currently 
no basis on which to conclude that Amtrust have acted unreasonably by relying on it to 
decline the claim. I appreciate Ms P has a different opinion, but her own views on this matter 
(and those on the risk posed to her property by the neighbours building work) cannot 
reasonably outweigh the assessment of the solicitors or other qualified professionals; for 
example, even where a policyholder is herself legally qualified, she cannot act as an 
independent expert in her own cause. 
The solicitors have said they will be willing to reassess the prospects of Ms Ps claim if she is 
able to provide the expert evidence theyve requested. I appreciate that this has put her in a 
difficult position as she says shes unable to afford a surveyors/engineers report. However, 
as set out in the policy document, the burden of proving the claim (and funding the cost of 
any supporting evidence required to assess it) falls to Ms P  not Amtrust. The fact that she 
may not be in a position to pay for the evidence required does not mean that the insurer 
would be required to fund it for her. 
Finally, Ms P says she didnt receive the policy documentation that Amtrust is now relying on 
to decline the claim and submits that it has been mis-sold. However, any such complaint 
would need to be directed to the relevant firm that sold her the policy. Amtrust is the 
underwriter of the policy, but did not sell it to her, so I cannot comment on this point within 
this decision as they are not the responsible party. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that Amtrust has done anything wrong in these 
circumstances, so I will not be directing them to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman