DRN-3601212
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is that, because of poor customer service and delays by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC, she missed out on securing a new rate of interest on her mortgage. She had to 
take a product at a higher rate of interest and would like Barclays to refund the difference in 
the two interest rates.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. Furthermore, Barclays has accepted it made a mistake and has 
offered compensation. Given this, what I need to decide is whether or not I think Barclays 
offer is fair and reasonable. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs P being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mrs P had a mortgage with an interest rate product that was due to expire on 2 November 
2021. Mrs P telephoned Barclays on 4 October 2021 to find out what rates would be 
available. She decided to apply for a two-year fixed rate at 1.16%. During that call, Mrs P 
was told that rates were available on a first come, first served basis. Mrs P was also told 
(incorrectly) that she couldnt apply for a rate switch online. 
The earliest available phone appointment was 19 October 2021. After clarifying the rates 
that were available, Mrs P was advised that Barclays needed to verify her identity before the 
application could proceed, and that shed need to take her documents into a branch so this 
could be done. Barclays also corrected what Mrs P had been told on 4 October 2021 and 
said she could apply for the rate online. 
Mrs P took the required identity documents into a branch on 25 October 2021. The following 
day a new appointment was arranged with a mortgage adviser, for 1 November 2021. By 
that time, the rates had changed and the 1.16% two-year fixed rate product was no longer 
available. Instead Mrs P took out a two-year fixed rate of 1.51%.
Mrs P complained. Barclays acknowledged that on 4 October 2021 it had incorrectly told 
Mrs P that she couldnt apply for a new rate online. However, this had been corrected during 
the call on 19 October 2021. Barclays offered Mrs P compensation of £200 for the 
inconvenience shed been caused, and also offered to refund 50% of the difference in 
interest rates from the rate Mrs P had wanted to the one she took out for a period of two 
years, which totalled £864.14.
Mrs P didnt accept this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened and didnt think Barclays needed to do anything 
further. She noted that Mrs P hadnt been registered for online or mobile banking. So even if 
shed been told on 4 October 2021 that she could have applied for a new rate online, this 
would have required Mrs P to register for online banking. Mrs P would still have needed to 
provide the identity information Barclays needed as well. Taking into account these 
circumstances, the investigator thought Barclays offer was fair.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to all the call recordings provided by Barclays and Ive taken careful 
note of everything Mrs P and Barclays have said.
I completely understand why Mrs P was disappointed that she wasnt able to secure the rate 
she wanted  the rate shed first discussed with Barclays in early October 2021. However, 
Im satisfied that, even if Mrs P had been told on 4 October 2021 that she could have applied 
online, this wouldnt have been possible because Mrs P wasnt registered for online banking. 
Given that Barclays also needed further identification verification (which only came to light 
during the call on 19 October 2021), I dont think Mrs P could have applied for the rate she 
wanted any sooner.
However, by the time Mrs P had been given a new appointment to make her application (on 
1 November 2021) the 1.16% rate had been withdrawn by that point and so Mrs P had to 
choose a different rate. Barclays would have borrowed funds in the money markets to 
enable it to offer the 1.16% rate, and once all those funds had been allocated (on payment of 
a reservation fee), the product is withdrawn. 
Im satisfied that all the staff Mrs P spoke to since her first call on 4 October 2021 wouldnt 
have known when the 1.16% would be withdrawn; this isnt information thats available to 
front-line staff. But I note that Mrs P was told on 4 October 2021 that rates were available on 
a first come, first served basis. So Im satisfied Mrs P had been made aware of the 
possibility that the rate might not be available if she applied for it later.
However, Barclays has acknowledged that it could have made it clearer to Mrs P when she 
was told about the need to provide further documentation to verify her identity that if the 
application wasnt made expeditiously she was in danger of losing the interest rate product. 
As a result, Mrs P didnt go into a branch with her documents for almost a week. Because 
Mrs P wasnt registered for online banking, I think its unlikely she could have secured the 
rate by applying online  she would have needed to register for online banking, which has its 
own security and verification procedures, which take time.
Overall, I think Barclays offer to refund half the interest differential between the rate Mrs P 
wanted (1.16%) and the rate she took (1.51%) over the two-year period  a total amount of 
£864.14  is fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded Barclays should refund the full amount, 
because Im satisfied Mrs P had been made aware that the rate might be withdrawn when 
she spoke to the bank on 4 October 2021.
Im also satisfied that Barclays offer of £200 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im not asking the bank to do anything further or pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman