DRN-3597743
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) didnt provide a 
premium refund on their travel insurance policy.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 30 November 2019. 
The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes and provided cover from 27 February 2020 to 
26 February 2021. 
They paid a total of £845.18, including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT), for the standard level 
of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a number of declared 
medical conditions.
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs F contacted Great Lakes to request a refund of their policy 
premium as they hadnt used it. Great Lakes said the policy had ended in February 2021 and 
there was therefore no refund due. It also said there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs F had 
contacted it while the policy was still running so there was no pro-rata refund due to them. 
Dissatisfied with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into it and acknowledged the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances of Covid-19. She set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and 
how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an 
insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
Our investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 27 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. She thought as the policy ran to its full term 
to 26 February 2021 and because Mr and Mrs F didnt contact Great Lakes until October 
2021, there was no premium refund due on the policy. She also acknowledged that Great 
Lakes had offered to provide a 20% discount of the base premium as a gesture of goodwill 
should Mr and Mrs F choose to take out another travel policy with it.
Unhappy with our investigators assessment, they asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs travel insurance policy with Great Lakes outline
their cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you If you ask us to cancel your policy in
writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take effect on the date the notice
is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs F to receive a full 
refund of the premium paid because:
Cover under the policy commenced on 27 February 2020, which is confirmed by the 
insurance documentation Mr and Mrs F received. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F were 
reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of 
the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Even if Mr and Mrs F had requested the cancellation of their policy any time after the 
14-day cooling-off period, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the relevant 
industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear the risk  
for however short a time  the premium is not returnable. And, as Ive outlined above, 
the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for cancellation outside the 
cooling-off period. 
 Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs contract 
because of the exception and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr 
and Mrs Fs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  this is because cover under 
the policy started on 27 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs F were insured from 27 February 2020 for travelling on any number of 
trips worldwide of up to 50 days in one trip which they may have taken until the policy 
expired. While I understand they may not have been able to travel due to Covid-19, 
because of the unusual way annual multi-trip travel insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since 
their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs F for the cancellation of their 
holidays which they might have booked and were due to take from 27 February 2020 
to 26 February 2021. This means Mr and Mrs F would have been covered if they had 
to cancel any number of trips because of any listed events insured under the policy 
including, for example, falling ill with the declared pre-existing medical conditions.
When Mr and Mrs F contacted Great Lakes in October 2021, their policy had already ended on 26 February 2021. The policy therefore ran to its full term and theres no 
evidence to suggest they contacted Great Lakes before October 2021. In these 
circumstances, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline to refund any 
of the premium Mr and Mrs F paid.
I understand Great Lakes has, as a gesture of goodwill, offered to give a 20% 
discount for a future new travel policy they wished to take with Great Lakes. Its up to 
Mr and Mrs F if they choose to do this and to contact Great Lakes directly. 
Given that the policy wasnt cancelled and that it ran to its full term, I dont think Great 
Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in not providing a refund of the premium Mr and 
Mrs F paid. It follows that I dont require Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman