DRN-1869469
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined her claim for 
breakdown repair. 
What happened
Mrs S purchased a car for her daughter in early February 2019. She added it to her 
breakdown repair policy at this time. The policy was underwritten by Acromas.
18 days later, Mrs S was driving the car when she heard a loud rattling noise. She parked 
the car and called her breakdown repair company. They completed a temporary repair on 
the car and said that it seemed the gearbox had failed. 
Mrs S took the car to a garage for the repairs the following day. While there she contacted 
Acromas to say the garage would contact them with their diagnosis prior to starting the 
repair. 
Acromas didnt hear from the garage and received an invoice a week later confirming the 
garage had gone ahead with the repair. Acromas asked the garage if the damaged parts 
could be made available for inspection by one of their experts. 
The parts couldnt be inspected until the end of March 2019. Once the parts had been 
checked out, the experts report concluded the damage to the gearbox had occurred as a 
result of wear and deterioration. Because of this, Acromas declined the claim. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with this and complained to Acromas. They stood by their decision to 
decline the claim. They told Mrs S that their experts opinion was the fault had been present 
prior to the inception of the breakdown policy. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that the engineers report was important, and it didnt suggest 
the breakdown had happened suddenly or unexpectedly. Because of that he didnt ask 
Acromas to do anything more for Mrs S.
Mrs S hasnt accepted this and has asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S breakdown repair policy defines Breakdown as:
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure;
And it defines Mechanical or Electrical Failure as:
The sudden and unforeseen breaking or burning out (electrical) of any insured part(s).
Both definitions explain that the breakdown has to be a sudden and unexpected, or 
unforeseen, event. So, what I need to decide is whether Acromas have treated Mrs S fairly 
when applying this to her breakdown repair claim. And in this case, Im satisfied they have. 
The car Mrs S was driving had done 102,854 miles when the fault occurred. The expert 
report provided by Acromas confirms that the expert concludes that the evidence available 
shows the condition of the gearbox to be a result of wear and deterioration to the input shaft 
bearing and synchro hub bearing  which the expert believes wouldnt be uncommon for the 
vehicles age and mileage. 
Mrs S has provided a statement from the repairing garage which suggests the car could 
have been driven for many more months had the fault not happened suddenly. But Im more 
persuaded by the expert report provided by Acromas. Its more detailed about the faults that 
have been found and gives more explanation why the expert believes the damage has 
happened over a period of time. I think its also an important point that no damaged or 
fragmented parts were found in the gearbox  I think its more likely that damaged or 
fragmented parts would be found if the gearbox had broken suddenly. Im satisfied that the 
fact there werent any broken parts seen suggest the gearbox has been deteriorating over a 
period of time. 
As Im satisfied that the experts report from Acromas is the most persuasive piece of 
evidence that I have, it follows that I cant decide that Mrs S car broke down suddenly and 
unexpectedly. Because of this, the repairs arent covered by her breakdown policy and I 
wont be asking Acromas to do anything more in regard to this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. I wont be asking Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman