DRN-3126054
The complaint
Mrs P says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account J D Williams provided. The account 
was opened in November 2015. Mrs P was given an initial credit limit of £125. This limit 
was increased 12 times until it eventually reached £3,000.00 in December 2018.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ps complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised Mrs P simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time it offered the increase to her credit limit of £1,900.00 in January 2017. J D 
Williams disagreed with our adjudicator, so the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs 
P could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the early increases to the credit limit on the account were not 
examples of irresponsible lending. Both parties have seen that assessment and Mrs P 
has not raised any objection to those findings. I have reviewed the case in its entirety and 
have reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I havent 
seen anything to make me think J D Williams should have been concerned about Mrs Ps 
ability to afford the limits given before the increase in January 2017. In the absence of any 
argument about that I will turn to the increase of January 2017. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mrs P with any further credit from January 2017 onwards. Our adjudicator noted 
that JD Williams had told us it obtained credit reference data about Mrs P at the time of 
the account opening and prior to each credit limit increase and that it took into 
consideration how the account was being managed. But our adjudicator noted that in 
January 2017 the credit limit had increased seven times in a little over a year from an 
initial credit limit of £125 to a new credit limit of £1,900.00. She also noted that JD 
Williams had performed no extra checks, over and above those mentioned earlier, to 
establish that Mrs P could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable 
manner. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with Mrs P, with a view to 
seeing if this alone may have shown any cause for concern that Mrs P could afford to 
repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. I note that Mrs P had three 
instances of arrears in her payments since the account opened in November 2015. She 
also had a history of largely making only minimum payments to the account with no 
discernible trend of reducing the balance she owed. This had seen her balance grow from 
the opening balance of £45.60 to an amount of £766.58. 
Should this information alone have been sufficient to alert J D Williams that there was a 
point at which they should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful? Should J D Williams have realised that it shouldnt have increased 
Mrs Ps credit limits? J D Williams thinks not.
But, as I mentioned above, J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out 
proportionate checks to be satisfied  Mrs P could afford to repay what she was being lent 
in a sustainable manner. But it made no extra checks, over and above those mentioned 
earlier, on Mrs Ps circumstances, despite evidence of arrears, the credit limit being raised 
five times in as many months at the time in January 2017 and a rise of over 15 times the 
original credit limit. In addition, Mrs P had a default in the previous 12 months and had a 
payment arrangement with several different debt collectors. All of which, I think J D 
Williams would most likely have seen from the credit checks it carried out. 
Had J D Williams chosen to make further enquiries (as I think it should have) into Mrs Ps 
particular circumstances than it did in January 2017, it would have most likely seen that 
Mrs Ps personal income was modest and that she was having difficulty managing her 
money. So, I think that proportionate checks will most likely have shown J D Williams that Mrs P was already struggling to manage the credit she already had and that there was a 
significant risk increasing her credit limit in these circumstances would lead to her 
indebtedness increasing to a level she couldnt afford. 
I think that Mrs P lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit from 
January 2017 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Mrs Ps 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So, J D Williams should put 
things right.
Putting things right - what J D Williams needs to do
rework her account to ensure that from 16 January 2017 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances above £1250.00  (including any buy now pay later 
interest) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have 
been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; 
and
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mrs P, along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then J D Williams should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ps 
credit file from 16 January 2017 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Ps complaint. J D Williams & 
Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman