DRN-4409662
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his car insurance intermediary, RAC Financial Services Limited 
as it charged a cancellation fee, which he thinks is unfair.
What happened
Mr A arranged cover for his car via RAC in August 2022. Unfortunately, in March 2023 he 
found the car had a fault which caused it to nearly catch fire. He sold the car. He looked to 
change his policy to the new car but the insurer would not offer cover. The policy was 
cancelled and Mr A was charged a fee, which left him with an outstanding balance to pay on 
the policy of £97.23. 
RAC arranged a new policy for Mr As new car which was subsequently cancelled. This 
policy was also subject to a cancellation fee, which RAC agreed to waive. But, during a call 
with Mr A on 4 April 2023, it confirmed it would not waive the fee applicable to the original 
cover. During the call Mr A argued the contract for the car had been frustrated. RAC 
maintained its refusal to waive the charge. RAC confirmed this in a final response letter 
dated 12 May 2023. Mr A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr A told us that during the call on 4 April 2023, RACs team manager had agreed to waive 
the fee. He said he was then shocked on 13 May 2023 to receive the final response letter 
confirming the fee would not be waived. 
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. She considered the terms Mr A had agreed to 
and listened to the call on 4 April 2023. She felt RAC had not agreed to remove the charges 
which had caused the outstanding balance. She felt RAC had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr A said there were other calls. That hed been called again after the call our Investigator 
had listened to and the manager had agreed to remove the fee. Mr A said that an 
unforeseen event had occurred, causing the subject matter of the contract  the insured car 
 to no longer be in his possession. He felt this meant the insurance contract had been 
frustrated rather than truly cancelled, meaning he and the insurer should go their separate 
ways without loss to either of them.  
Mr As complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. But I needed to consider what Mr A had said about 
being told of the fee waiver in a different call to the one referenced by our Investigator. So 
I issued a provisional decision. 
RAC said it would accept my decision. Mr A, noting the outcome had not changed, said he 
remained unhappy. He said hed likely pursue his argument through the courts. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I know Mr A believes that the cancellation charge should not apply for reasons of frustration. 
But he entered into an insurance contract using RAC as an intermediary. So it was RACs 
job to arrange and then administer the insurance contract. Part and parcel of a contract like 
this is the expectation that a policyholder may not want to continue with the policy for the 
whole year. RAC, as do most intermediaries, and indeed insurers, builds this expectation 
into their customer agreements. 
RAC set out in the terms, which were shared with Mr A when the policy was arranged, that if 
the policy is cancelled a fee will be charged. RAC links the fee charged to the specific 
service provided in that, with it having fitted a data capture box (blackbox) to Mr As car as 
part of the insurance contract, the cancellation fee will be £125.00. Thats not an 
unreasonable sum and RAC is clear about it being charged. And its a charge that is made in 
line with a reasonably foreseeable event which might happen during the life of the contract. 
Its common for insurers offering similar contracts to make a charge like this. I think it was 
fair and reasonable for RAC to charge this sum and Mr As arguments around frustration 
dont give me cause to think it should fairly be waived in this instance. 
Mr A also argues that he was told the fee would be waived. Im not persuaded that is the 
case. Our Investigator obtained and listened to the call Mr A identified in our complaint form 
as being the one in which he was told the fee would be waived. Ive listened to it. The 
manager speaking with Mr A is very clear on several occasions that the cancellation fee for 
this policy would not be waived. The matter is concluded with Mr A asking for the refusal to 
waive the fee to be put in writing and the manager agreeing to do that. This was sent on 
12 May 2023. Theres no reference in the call to a further telephone conversation being likely 
or intended, and the letter doesnt mention any further telephone conversation. Ive not seen 
anything to make me think RAC, at any time, contacted Mr A and agreed to waive the 
cancellation fee.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr A. I understand that the circumstances of his car 
having to be sold in, to him, unexpected circumstances, was upsetting and costly for him. 
However, Im satisfied that Mr A entered into a clear contract with RAC which allowed it, in 
situations where the policy is no longer needed and has to be cancelled, to charge a fee. It 
was fair and reasonable, in my view, for it to charge that fee to Mr A and Im not persuaded 
its most likely it agreed to waive that. So I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
I understand that Mr A feels a court would find in his favour on a technical legal argument of 
frustration. Ive taken his view on frustration into account in reaching my fair and reasonable 
findings set out above. If Mr A wants a legal test for his argument, he is free to pursue the 
matter against RAC through the courts. 
I note Mr As dissatisfaction with my decision, and his intention to pursue his concerns 
elsewhere. But he hasnt raised any further argument for me to consider. Having reviewed 
matters, I remain of the view stated provisionally. As such my provisional findings are now 
those of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. I dont make any award against RAC Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman