DRN-3702839
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has treated him unfairly 
when it has decided the recipients of benefits from a pension policy held by his late brother.
What happened
Mr M lived with his brother, who I will call Mr X. Mr X sadly passed away in February 2021. 
At the time of his passing Mr X was survived by five siblings including Mr M. Mr X had no 
closer surviving relations such as children or parents.
Mr X held pension benefits with Prudential that were valued at approximately £25,000 when 
he died. Under the terms of his pension policy Prudential was required to exercise its 
discretion when determining how those pension savings should be distributed. Prudential 
decided that the pension benefits should be shared equally between the five surviving 
siblings of Mr X. That meant Mr M received a payment of approximately £5,000.
The process that Prudential needed to follow in order to gather the information needed 
before it could exercise its discretion was lengthy. It required Mr M to provide extensive 
information to Prudential about his relationship with his deceased brother. Mr M has shown 
he acted as Mr Xs carer, and appointee in relation to DWP matters. Prudential has accepted 
that it didnt deal with that process as well as it should have and has paid a total of £1,050 to 
Mr M in relation to the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. And it paid Mr M some 
interest in respect of the delay in making the payment to him that had been caused by its 
investigations.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
enquiries that Prudential had completed had been reasonably necessary. And she thought 
that Prudentials decision on how the benefits should be divided was a reasonable exercise 
of its discretion, and in line with the scheme rules. So she didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
First I would like to pass on my condolences to Mr M. I am aware what a difficult time he 
continues to face in dealing with the passing of his brother, and the adjustments he needs to 
make to his life now that his extensive caring responsibilities have ended. From the evidence 
I have seen there is no doubt how much of his time he dedicated to his brothers care.
In line with many pension plans, the payment of benefits following the death of a policyholder 
is made at the discretion of the pension administrator. That generally means that the pension 
benefits do not form part of the estate of the deceased, and so are not liable for inheritance 
tax. Pension providers will encourage policyholders to complete an expression of wish 
document. Whilst not binding, that document does provide the pension administrator with an 
indication of where pension benefits should be paid. Prudential says that it doesnt hold 
documentation of that nature in relation to Mr Xs pension savings.
Prudential has a wide discretion on who should receive benefits following the death of a 
policyholder. It will seek to establish whether any potential beneficiaries are financially 
dependent, or interdependent, on the policyholder. And it will consider other circumstances 
such as family relationships when making its decision. In order to gather sufficient evidence 
to reach those conclusions it will sometimes need to ask for information that appears to be 
personal and intrusive. But I am satisfied that the requests Prudential made of Mr M were 
reasonably necessary for it to form a picture of the living situation between him and Mr X.
Prudentials investigations failed to establish that there was financial dependency between 
Mr M and Mr X. It isnt for me to check that decision. Even if Prudential had identified 
dependency, it would still have been within its rights to exercise its discretion and pay the 
pension benefits to another party. Here, Prudential decided that the surviving siblings of 
Mr X should each receive an equal share of the pension benefits. I cannot reasonably 
conclude that decision was unreasonable or unlawful.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr M at what is already a difficult 
time. He has provided extensive evidence of the relationship he shared with Mr X. But I am 
satisfied that information was also provided to Prudential, and taken into account by the firm 
when it reached its decision. I dont think that Prudentials exercise of its discretion is such 
that I should conclude it has acted unfairly or contrary to the rules of the pension scheme. 
Whilst Mr M might consider that he is entitled to all of the pension benefits, I am sure his 
siblings also consider they have an equal entitlement. On balance I dont think that 
Prudential has done anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman