DRN-4122205
The complaint
Miss M1 and Miss M2 complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE decided to exclude travel 
insurance cover for all of Miss M1s medical conditions.
As Miss M1 brought the complaint, for ease, Ive referred mainly simply to her.
All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
In February 2022, Miss M1 took out two single trip travel insurance policies through a broker, 
to cover two separate trips. The first of those trips was due to take place in mid-June 2022. 
Miss M1 declared her own and Miss M2s medical conditions, which Great Lakes agreed to 
cover.
However, in late May 2022, the holiday provider cancelled Miss M1s June 2022 trip (and 
later refunded the booking cost.) Miss M1 contacted Great Lakes on 30 May 2022, to ask 
whether the policy dates could be changed if she booked another trip. Great Lakes said the 
dates could be changed, so long as it was prior to the date Miss M1 was originally due to 
travel.
Miss M1 booked a new trip on 6 June 2022 and was due to travel a few weeks later. On 8 
June 2022, she spoke with Great Lakes to amend the trip dates. During the call, she told 
Great Lakes that shed recently undergone a scan after suffering from nausea and had been 
referred to a consultant. Great Lakes continued to provide medical cover under the second 
policy (for a trip later in the year), as Miss M1 had booked the later trip prior to suffering 
symptoms and referral to a consultant.
However, Great Lakes decided it couldnt continue to provide full medical cover under the 
June 2022 policy. Great Lakes let Miss M1 know that she had the option to cancel her policy 
and receive a pro-rata refund. It also told her that it could continue to provide her with 
insurance, but that it would exclude cover for all of her pre-existing medical conditions or 
claims for anything linked to those conditions. Miss M1 agreed to continue the policy on the 
basis that cover for her medical conditions would be excluded.
However, when Miss M1 received the amended June 2022 policy documents, she became 
concerned about the potential impact of excluded medical cover upon her ability to make a 
claim on the policy. So she decided to cancel the policy and she decided against travelling. 
And she cancelled her trip.
Miss M1 was unhappy with Great Lakes administration of her policy, as she felt that the call 
handler hadnt fully explained the potential implications of excluding her pre-existing medical 
conditions. And she said she wouldnt have agreed to amend the policy if shed fully 
understood how the exclusions would affect it. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought that Miss M1s complaint should be upheld. Briefly, she concluded 
that when Miss M1 had called Great Lakes in late May 2022 to enquire about amending the 
policy dates, Great Lakes ought to have told her that it would need to carry out a new 
medical screening before it could amend the contract. She thought it was most likely that 
had it done so, Miss M1 wouldve told Great Lakes about her referral to a consultant during 
that call and wouldve been told that Great Lakes would no longer cover her pre-existing 
medical conditions. She thought that Miss M1 likely wouldnt have booked a new trip if shed 
been aware of such a change in her cover and so she felt Miss M1 had lost out as a result.
She concluded too that the reason Miss M1 had decided to cancel the trip was a direct result 
of Great Lakes actions. She recommended that Great Lakes should pay the costs of Miss 
M1s cancelled trip, together with interest, as compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Great Lakes had treated Miss M1 fairly. I said:
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of the 
contract between Miss M1 and Great Lakes. Page four of the contract explains how Great 
Lakes handles changes to a policyholders health after they purchase the policy. Ive set out 
the relevant terms below:
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the following 
happens:
 you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
 your doctor, or consultant changes your prescribed medication
 you receive inpatient medical treatment
 you are now awaiting a diagnosis, investigation, test results or medical treatment
then you must contact (brokers) Customer Services. A member of the team will ask you 
specific questions about your medical condition(s). 
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for the 
condition that has undergone significant change.
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which 
cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health. Alternatively, 
you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a proportionate 
amount of your premium.
In my view, the terms make it clear that if a policyholder is undergoing investigation or is 
awaiting a diagnosis at the time of booking a trip, then they need to disclose this to Great 
Lakes. I also think the terms make it sufficiently clear that in some circumstances, Great 
Lakes may not be able to continue to offer cover on the same terms, or indeed at all. And Im 
satisfied too that Great Lakes has set out the options which are available to policyholders if 
Great Lakes isnt able to provide cover on the same terms.
Its common ground that in February 2022, when Miss M1 originally took out the policy, shed 
already booked a trip and declared the medical conditions she knew about. At this point, 
Great Lakes had agreed to cover those medical conditions. It seems that in around April 
2022, Miss M1 began to suffer gastric symptoms and was referred for a scan, which appears 
to have taken place during May 2022. She was then referred to a consultant. It doesnt 
appear that Miss M1 contacted Great Lakes, in line with the policy terms and conditions, to 
tell it about her change in health at this point, or prior to the cancellation of the June 2022 
trip.When Miss M1 did contact Great Lakes on 30 May 2022, the June 2022 trip had already 
been cancelled by the provider and at that point, no new holiday booking had been made. 
Ive listened to that call and I dont agree with our investigator that Great Lakes call handler 
ought to have told Miss M1 about the need for a new medical screening or gone through 
screening with her. The call was made for the purpose of ascertaining whether the trip dates 
could be amended. At that point, Miss M1 hadnt booked a new trip and so no amendment to 
the policy dates could be made.
I dont think there was anything in the call which ought to have reasonably put Great Lakes 
on notice that Miss M1 might have had a change in health, or that she might need to go 
through a further medical screening. So I dont think I could reasonably find that Great Lakes 
ought to reimburse Miss M1s trip costs on this basis. Id add too that by this point, it seems 
Miss M1 had already been experiencing symptoms and had been referred for investigation, 
so it was open to her to tell the call handler about these health changes during the call. Ive 
noted that during later calls, she seems to have been aware of the need to tell Great Lakes 
about medical changes.
Miss M1 went on to book a new trip on 6 June 2022. Under the terms of the policy, Miss M1 
needed to tell Great Lakes about any change in her health prior to booking that new trip. 
However, she didnt do so until 8 June 2022, after the new holiday had already been booked 
and paid for. I appreciate that she says she tried to call Great Lakes but couldnt get through  
due to how busy the lines were. But Great Lakes says all of its calls would have gone on to 
be answered  albeit with a hold time. While I dont doubt this wouldve been frustrating for 
Miss M1, I dont think she was prevented from speaking with Great Lakes to discuss her 
change in health ahead of booking the new trip.
In line with the contract terms, when Miss M1 did speak to Great Lakes on 8 June 2022, it 
completed a further screening. Great Lakes has provided me with confidential evidence 
which shows that it was no longer able to offer Miss M1 cover for her pre-existing medical 
conditions, following her disclosure of the referral to a consultant. Im satisfied then that it 
wouldve likely applied the same exclusions to any other customer in Miss M1s situation and 
that it hasnt singled her out unfairly. And I find it acted in line with its underwriting criteria 
when it decided to exclude cover for Miss M1s medical conditions.
Miss M1 says that she doesnt think Great Lakes clearly explained the implications upon 
potential claims if she agreed to it excluding cover for her pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ive listened to the calls of 8 June 2022 between Miss M1 and Great Lakes. I think the call 
handler clearly explained that if Miss M1 agreed to cover being excluded for pre-existing 
medical conditions, claims directly or indirectly related to those conditions wouldnt be paid. I 
also think they clearly set out the implications of proceeding with cover on this basis. And I 
think they accurately summarised how cover would work. In my view, Miss M1 understood 
what the call handler was telling her (even though she wasnt happy with it) and appeared to 
understand the implications of amending the cover to exclude her pre-existing medical 
conditions.
The call handler also explained to Miss M1 that she didnt have to take up this option, she 
could instead choose to cancel the policy and obtain a pro-rata refund of premium. This was 
in line with the policy terms. But Miss M1 decided against this option and chose to proceed 
with amending the policy dates and excluding cover for her pre-existing medical conditions. 
Given she made such a choice, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to now 
direct Great Lakes to pay her any refund of premium.
It's clear how strongly Miss M1 feels that she was left with no choice but to cancel her 
holiday once she understood how cover could be affected. And I do sympathise with her 
position. But it seems to me that there was no medical or other insured reason for her to cancel the trip. Disinclination to travel simply isnt covered by the cancellation section of the 
policy. It seems to me too that Miss M1 couldve looked elsewhere for another policy to 
cover her trip if shed wished to do so (although I accept its unlikely that any insurer 
wouldve agreed to cover her undiagnosed condition). 
Overall, based on all Ive seen, I dont currently think that Great Lakes has treated Miss M1 
unfairly or unreasonably. I dont think there was any reason for it to know that Miss M1 had 
suffered a change in health when she called on 30 May 2022. And I currently find that Great 
Lakes explained the change in cover in a clear, fair and not misleading way. This means that 
I dont presently think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could uphold this 
complaint. So it follows that I dont intend to make any award against Great Lakes.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes agreed with my provisional findings.
Miss M1 and Miss M2 were unhappy with my provisional decision and Ive summarised their 
response:
Theyd taken out this policy because it was a well-known brand, which was supposed 
to help people with pre-existing medical conditions. They wouldve been prepared to 
pay an additional premium to secure the insurance policy  but this option wasnt 
offered to them;
They maintained that Great Lakes shouldnt have treated the policy as a new policy 
and that Great Lakes hadnt properly informed them about the implications of simply 
amending their existing cover;
They werent told that they could make a cancellation claim on the policy, which may 
have provided Miss M2 with some compensation;
Great Lakes shouldnt have advised Miss M1 to travel without adequate insurance 
and this would not have been in her best interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss M1 and Miss M2, I still think Great Lakes 
treated them fairly and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Miss M1 wouldve agreed to pay an additional premium in order for her 
gastric referral to be covered by the policy. But Great Lakes simply wasnt prepared to offer 
cover for this condition  or continue to cover Miss M1s pre-existing medical conditions. 
Thats because, after Miss M1s gastric referral, it concluded that the risk of Miss M1 making 
a claim was too high. This was in line with Great Lakes underwriting criteria and it was also 
a commercial decision it was entitled to make. Im still satisfied that the evidence indicates 
that Great Lakes wouldve treated any other policyholder in the same circumstances as Miss 
M1 in the same way. Therefore, it remains the case that I dont think she was singled out 
unfairly.
As I explained in my provisional decision, based on the calls I listened to between Miss M1 
and Great Lakes, I think Great Lakes did clearly explain the implications of excluding 
medical cover to Miss M1. And I still think it seems that shed understood both how the 
amended cover would work and the impact excluding medical cover could have on claims. 
Miss M1 chose to go ahead with excluding cover for her pre-existing medical conditions, despite being offered the option to cancel the policy and obtain a pro-rata premium refund. I 
dont think I could fairly find that Great Lakes provided her with unclear, or misleading 
information on this point. And I dont think I could reasonably conclude that Miss M1 wasnt 
given enough information to make an informed decision about the options available to her. 
Id add too that I dont think Great Lakes advised Miss M1 to travel without insurance. Whilst 
it wasnt prepared to provide her with cover for her existing medical conditions; she wouldve 
had the benefit of the remaining cover provided by the contract. And it was open to her to 
look elsewhere for insurance which may have provided her with full medical insurance 
(although I think this is unlikely, given that in my experience, most, if not all, travel insurers, 
exclude cover for undiagnosed conditions.)
Miss M1 has referred to the fact that Great Lakes didnt tell her that she could make a 
cancellation claim on the policy. This is a potential option available if Great Lakes chooses to 
exclude medical cover during the life of a policy. However, this option only applies to trips 
which have already been booked before a change in health happens and where the cost of 
those trips cant be recovered from elsewhere. In this case, the cancelled trip was booked in 
June 2022  some weeks after Miss M1 had suffered symptoms and had been referred for 
investigation. And as I understand it, the costs of the original trip had already been refunded 
by the travel provider. So this option wouldnt have been available to Miss M1 and Miss M2 
at the point Great Lakes declined to offer Miss M1 full medical cover. Accordingly, I wouldnt 
reasonably have expected the call handler to explain this term to Miss M1.
Overall, I have a great deal of sympathy with Miss M1 and Miss M2s position. But I still dont 
think I could reasonably conclude that, in May 2022, Great Lakes ought to have known that 
Miss M1 had suffered a change in health. Or that it ought to have told her about the need for 
a new medical screening if she booked a new trip when she called to look into amending the 
trip dates. Ive explained why I think Great Lakes was entitled to withdraw cover for Miss 
M1s medical conditions. And as Miss M1 opted to continue with the policy, despite Great 
Lakes offer to cancel it and pay a pro-rata refund of premium, I dont think I could fairly 
direct Great Lakes to pay any refund of premium now. So I still dont find that there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M1 and Miss 
M2 to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman