DRN-1291436
 
The complaint
Mr L says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr L applied for a credit card in January 2008. A PPI policy was added to Mr Ls credit card 
account around a month afterwards during a phone call with a representative from MBNA. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr Ls main complaint points are that he doesn't think the policy was put across to him as 
optional and it was not made clear what it was and how it could be used. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I think MBNA made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
because when he took out the PPI he had held his credit card for almost a month already - 
without PPI. So, I think Mr L would have known it was open to him not to take out PPI if he 
didnt want to have it. Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr L 
to remember everything that was discussed as this was so long ago. But I have been able to 
see a call script and it looks like PPI is presented as optional on this. So on balance, I think 
its more likely that during the phone call Mr L decided he wanted to have the benefits that 
PPI offered him and he agreed for it to be added on to his credit card account. 
MBNA didnt give advice, so I dont need to consider whether the policy was suitable. But it 
still should have given Mr L enough information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for him.
The information MBNA gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been  
and I dont think they properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mr L made a claim. But Mr L chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
seems to have wanted it. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover.
Ive also taken into account that Mr L has told us he didn't have sick pay and hasnt told us 
he had anything in the way of savings that he could have used to meet his card repayments 
if he had to stop working unexpectedly. So, even though the policy benefit was low, based on what I know about Mr Ls circumstances it looks like it could still have been useful to him. 
And I dont think better information would have stopped him buying it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr L would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed 
still have taken out the policy.
This means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr L.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman