DRN-3333768
The complaint
Ms M complaints that Nationwide Building Society gave her incorrect information for an 
account transfer causing her to lose her money.
What happened
Ms M told us:
She contacted Nationwide for assistance on what details to include on a transfer from 
her account with a bank to the building society.
She input the account details as she was told on the transfer form, but the money 
wasnt received into her Nationwide account.
Nationwide let the third-party withdraw the money which had been received into the 
wrong account and didnt try and get it back, so she has lost around £900.
Nationwide told us:
Ms M had input incorrect details on the transfer request as she put her customer 
number as the account number and the account number as the reference.
It told Ms M that she didnt need a roll number when making a payment to her current 
account, only the account name, sort code and account number.
It had followed the instructions received to make the payment into the third partys 
account, and then followed its terms and conditions by providing the receiving 
account information to Ms Ms bank so it could attempt to recover the money from 
the third-party 
It had looked to recover the money from the third-party but there had been 
insufficient funds in the account to do so
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that Nationwide 
had taken reasonable steps to recover Ms Ms money which had been withdrawn before the 
building society was aware of the incorrect transfer being received. She also didnt agree 
that Nationwide had given conflicting information about the details which needed to be used 
for the transfer. 
Ms M didnt agree as she said she wouldnt have entered incorrect numbers unless she had 
been told to do so. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
Ms M says that she was incorrectly told which details to include on the transfer form, as she 
is confident she wouldnt have included the wrong details on something so important. But Im 
not persuaded thats the case. Ive seen a copy of the web chat between Ms M and 
Nationwide and Ive seen that the agent told Ms M on several occasions that only one of the 
accounts she held would have a roll number, and this wasnt the account Ms M wanted to 
transfer money to. 
I can see that the agent told Ms M that to undertake a transfer to her account, that she 
needed to include the sort code and account number. And that Ms Ms current account didnt 
have the roll number she was asking for. Ive also seen the bank case review notes from 23 
April, where Ms M called the bank and explained that shed input the customer number and 
account number in the wrong parts of the transfer request. This is also evident on the 
recovery request form when Nationwide were asked to attempt recover of the money. 
So I think Ms M did have the correct information, but there was simply an error whereby she 
input the incorrect details on the transfer request. Ms M has also mentioned about the 
account details required by other building societies when completing transfers and 
experiences of other Nationwide customers. However, its not for me to comment on other 
businesses or complaints, as a service we can only look at individual complaints, so my 
decision is focused solely on Ms Ms complaint about Nationwide. 
I understand that it would have been distressing for Ms M when she realised that she hadnt 
received the money into her account as expected, and that she wanted Nationwide to 
recover it from the third-party who had received it. So Ive looked at the actions Nationwide 
took once it was aware the transfer had been made to the wrong account and Im satisfied 
that it took reasonable actions in line with its regulatory obligations. 
After the recovery action was submitted on 21 January 2021, Nationwide responded in mid-
February to say that it couldnt recover the money as the third-party didnt have any money 
in their account to return. Ive seen a copy of the third-party account transactions and I can 
see that the funds which were credited to account were withdrawn within around twenty-four 
hours  taking into consideration the Christmas period  so I think Nationwides initial 
response was reasonable. 
Ive also gone on to consider when Nationwide looked to recover the money, and whether 
there were other opportunities for it to do so after the initial balance was withdrawn. 
Nationwide has said that it undertook account checks on several occasions, but there were 
insufficient funds available. Looking at the third-party transactions I can see that when a 
credit was made to the account, the balance was generally withdrawn in full within twenty-
four hours. So I think its reasonable to believe that when Nationwide checked the account 
for money to recover  even if it was the day a credit came in  that there werent funds 
available. 
Nationwide has also explained that it did check the third-party account but there werent 
sufficient funds available to withdraw as it wouldnt leave the third-party with an account 
balance of less than £150. I recognise this may seem frustrating to Ms M, however 
Nationwide has a responsibility to both customers. I think its reasonable it didnt want to be 
the cause of financial difficulty for the other party by removing any/all available funds which 
would contravene the principle of treating customers fairly. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the credit payment recovery operating guide, and I can 
see that it has followed the guidance within this. Nationwide has provided copies of the 
letters that it sent to the third party on several occasions in January 2021 asking them to 
return the money or credit money into the account so it could return the money. And in line 
with the guidance, Nationwide explained that Ms M may decide to pursue action against 
them if they didnt return the money they had received in error  but to date they havent done so. So based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong.
I recognise that Ms M feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision 
as she wanted Nationwide to refund her the money which was paid to the third-party. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think Nationwide has acted reasonably in its attempts to 
recover the money, so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman