DRN-3292944
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have given her poor customer service.
What happened
Mrs P is unhappy with the level of service she received from HSBC after they agreed to a 
payment holiday and they said they would amend her credit file in June 2020, after a 
previous complaint.
Mrs P says that it took HSBC 8-9 months for her credit file to be updated and she had 
received numerous calls from HSBCs collections team, chasing her for the debt. She says 
she had been given further misinformation, which caused her further distress. Mrs P says 
that 25 HSBC colleagues have treated her poorly since the beginning of her problems and 
she made several complaints to HSBC.
HSBC upheld several of her complaints. On 3 June 2021, they said when the back dated 
payment holiday came to an end at the end of July, the arrears for these months wasnt 
cleared and that was the reason Mrs Ps credit file showed six months in arrears. They 
credited her account with £200.
On 5 June 2021, they explained they werent able to offer her a payment holiday when Mrs P 
first contacted her, as the only option they had at the time was to agree a temporary 
arrangement. HSBC credited her account with £50 for the trouble and upset this caused Mrs 
P.
On 14 June 2021, HSBC explained that the 3 June request to have Mrs Ps credit file 
updated had not been actioned yet, but they have now arranged it to be actioned and 
credited her account with £100 for any inconvenienced caused.
HSBC upheld another complaint on 30 June 2021, explaining that they are only able to 
update one of the Credit Reference Agencies in July 2021, based on them not receiving the 
files from all of the Credit Reference Agencies from May yet. So they credited another £75 to 
her account.
Mrs P brought her complaint to our service and said that she wanted at least £10,000 for the 
issues shes encountered with HSBC and for the interest rate to be reduced on her loan from 
12.9% interest to at least 3%, as she says that HSBC promised her this in the first place, (or 
less than that after the pandemic situation). Our investigator has said that he felt the 
compensation HSBC had paid was fair as Mrs P owed them money and therefore, they were 
entitled to make efforts to recover the debt. He said he was not persuaded that the amount 
or content of HSBCs communications were inappropriate or amounted to harassment in the 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed their customer in any way. 
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right 
with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to 
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the 
role of the regulator.
I must also explain to Mrs P that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity 
and as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how HSBC have investigated her 
complaint, such as how long they take to respond to her complaint emails, dont come under 
my powers to consider. 
I must also make Mrs P aware that our service is unable to tell a business how they should 
run their collections process. So I cant ask HSBC to stop or limit the number of phone calls 
or communication they have with a customer when they are in arrears on their account. 
Mrs P has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Both parties agree that HSBC made several errors with how they have updated Mrs Ps 
credit file and have provided poor customer service to her. This is clear from the number of 
times HSBC have upheld complaints about the issues involved, which shes brought to this 
service.
And Mrs P has had the stress of having to call HSBC and chase them up to ensure they 
carried out what they said they would do, while she says shes been misinformed at times. 
And I can understand why Mrs P would feel this way, especially after her credit file hadnt 
been updated long after HSBC agreed to update her credit file. 
I know Mrs P has been distressed by the calls she has had from HSBC also. I asked HSBC 
to provide the phone calls shes had, but a lot of these werent available. So Ive listened to 
the calls that were available. I can understand why Mrs P was frustrated as she has to keep 
repeating her circumstances to different call handlers when shes trying to do her best to 
make payments, especially as she wasnt allowed to take on a second job while being 
furloughed and she didnt want to speak to a debt management agency and she didnt want 
frequent calls from HSBC. 
Calls with a collections team could always cause an element of distress, especially if they 
are frequent, however, I also need to balance this with a business right to collect money 
which is owed to them, when Mrs P was in arrears. But I am satisfied the call handlers 
treated Mrs P with respect and Im persuaded that they did try to help Mrs P on these calls 
Ive listened to.
But regarding the events which Mrs P have complained about, I have seen evidence of poor 
customer service and HSBC have admitted to this by the multiple complaints theyve upheld 
for Mrs P. HSBC didnt amend Mrs Ps credit file when they said they would and they provided her with poor customer service. And this took considerably longer to amend her 
credit file than it should have done.
So what should have happened here, is for HSBC to apologise to Mrs P, recognise the 
impact their errors will have had on Mrs P and pay her appropriate compensation. I can see 
that from 3-30 June 2021, that they credited her account with a total of £425 for the poor 
customer service they gave Mrs P and for not updating the Credit Reference Agencies.
So Ive considered whether this amount is fair. I know Mrs P strongly feels this amount of 
compensation is not fair and that £10,000 would reflect the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered, especially due to her personal circumstances which affected 
her not being able to meet her loan repayments in the first place. And she is wanting HSBC 
to reduce her interest rate from 12.9% to at least 3%, as she says that HSBC promised her 
this in the first place, (or less than that after the pandemic situation). But Im satisfied that the 
total amount of compensation that HSBC paid Mrs P here is fair and Ill explain why.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. 
Theres no doubt that HSBC let Mrs P down a number of times with how theyve dealt with 
her. But the total amount of compensation they paid her for these failings is more than I 
would have been able to award her for the poor customer service she received and for them 
not updating her credit file, had they not upheld any of her complaints, based on our 
guidelines. And she agreed to take out the loan originally at 12.9% interest, so I cant ask 
HSBC to reduce her interest rate despite the poor customer service shes had. So although I 
know Mrs P will be disappointed, it follows that I wont be asking HSBC to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman