DRN-3246152
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited incorrectly allocated a payment in the 
wrong tax year. He says this denied him the opportunity to invest in units at a lower price 
and has caused him a great deal of distress and inconvenience.
All dates in this decision are in 2020 unless otherwise stated.
What happened
On 5 April, Mr W paid a total of £20,000 to his Aviva personal pension via faster payments. 
He did this to maximise his higher rate tax relief for the tax year 2019/20. Because 5 April fell 
on a Sunday, the payment went through on the next working day, meaning it fell in a new tax 
year 2020/21. 
Mr W called Aviva on 6 April and complained. But its agent told Mr W that because faster 
payment wasnt instant, his (Mr Ws) payment on 5 April went through the next working day. 
Mr W disputed this, saying he was concerned because of the potential lost tax relief for the 
previous tax year and the impact this would have on how much he could contribute the 
following tax year. 
Further correspondence ensued. And on 29 May Aviva rejected Mr Ws complaint. However, 
because one of its agents failed to correctly explain to Mr W why his payment fell in the new 
tax year, Aviva offered him £100 in compensation. 
Following further correspondence, Aviva explained it had changed its position. It said that it 
was now going to agree that if payments were made on Sunday, 5 April, then this would fall 
in the tax year 2019/20. To put things right, it allocated Mr Ws contributions to 5 April and it 
paid him a further £75 in recognition of the distress caused.
Mr W disagreed with the £175 compensation saying it didnt adequately recognise the level 
of distress and inconvenience he suffered. He also said he lost out on an opportunity to 
invest £8,000 on 6 April when units he could have purchased, were at a lower price. Mr W 
said he hadnt invested on that day because he was trying to resolve the issues with Aviva 
before investing.
Aviva said as there was no evidence that Mr W was intending to make contributions on 
6 April, it was unable to backdate any additional payments he may make into his plan. Aviva 
said if it were to backdate payments without evidence of the date these were intended to be 
made, this would be classed as allowing Mr W to play the market.
Our investigator thought the compensation of £175 Aviva had paid Mr W, was fair. In terms 
of the contribution of £8,000 Mr W said he was going to make on 6 April, she didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to support this was the case. In particular, she noted during the 
call on 6 April, where Mr Ws fund choices were discussed, he didnt make any reference to 
an intended investment on that day. She added that during calls and emails with Aviva, 
Mr Ws intention to invest in the tax year 2020/21, was clear. But she didnt think there was 
anything which indicated when in the tax year this would be.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the 
matter. In summary, Mr W said:
He doesnt think a total of £175 is sufficient compensation. He was grieving for the 
loss of his friend and dealing with this whilst having to deal with Avivas mistake, was 
distressing and the inconvenience went on for several months. The mistake was 
something that should have been avoided in the first place.
As a higher rate taxpayer he wanted to make additional contributions into his pension 
so he could reclaim higher tax relief. This was largely because he was trying to 
recoup the substantial inheritance tax he had recently paid.
Aviva tried to make him believe the tax year ended on 3 April, when this wasnt 
correct. It didnt take his concerns seriously.
He spent a significant amount of time and effort communicating with Aviva. And 
Aviva failed to call him back on at least two occasions.
He lost the opportunity to invest between April and July when the unit rates were 
increasing. He was planning to invest as soon as he received confirmation that the 
original contributions had been correctly allocated.
He can show he had available funds to contribute into his pension plan as he paid 
£20,000 into an Individual Savings Account on 9 April.
He made it clear in an email dated 31 May that he wanted to pay money into his 
pension and that Avivas mistake was preventing this. It is a mistake to focus on April 
alone. He should be allowed to pay £8,000 for units on or before 31 May.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything further. Before I 
explain my reasoning, I understand that Mr W has raised a number of points during his 
contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered 
everything Mr W has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome 
of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened 
I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Aviva, once it changed its position on payments made on Sunday, 5 April, took steps to put 
Mr W back in the position he would have been if the payment had gone through on that day. 
It arranged for his contributions to be allocated to the tax year 2019/20, which I agree was 
the fair thing to do in his case. Mr W has accepted this, so, I wont comment any further on 
this aspect.
Mr W says he suffered a significant level of distress and inconvenience because of Avivas 
actions. I understand this was an upsetting time for him given his circumstances. And it did 
take almost three months to resolve. But what I award must be a proportionate and fair 
reflection of all the circumstances. 
Particularly, in terms of the time taken, I need to bear in mind the payment was made on a 
non-working day, so this was the reason it didnt go through to Mr Ws account until 6 April.  
So, whilst I think the fair and reasonable thing for Aviva to do in Mr Ws case, was to allow 
the payment to go through in the 2019/20 tax year, I dont think it looking into the issue 
further was unreasonable. At the same time, I dont underestimate how stressful Mr W found 
dealing with this matter. But, overall, I think £175, which Mr W has confirmed he has already 
received from Aviva, fairly and proportionally compensates him for its mistake. In terms of the investment Mr W said he was going to make on 6 April, as our investigator 
has concluded, I cant see any contemporaneous evidence that supports this. Ive reviewed 
all of the available correspondence including emails between Mr W and Aviva. And Ive 
listened to the call he had on 6 April. But I havent seen, or heard, anything which supports 
that he was going to make a £8,000 contribution on 6 April for the tax year 2020/21. 
The first mention of this date was in Mr Ws email to Aviva dated 16 July where he said:
Now that you [Aviva] accept the contributions were received on 5 April (ie in the 2019/20 tax 
year) that means that I can pay additional money in for the 2020/21 tax year. But, the 
problem is this - had you accepted the position from the start, I could have paid an additional 
£8,000 on 6 April (so a contribution of £10,000 including the £2,000 tax relief Aviva would 
have added) and purchased units at a rate of £2.0808. But because it has taken months to 
resolve this, if I pay that money in now I will have to buy units at a higher price and will 
receive fewer units. I don't think that's fair given your mistakes.
I didn't mention this in my recent email because at that point you had advised that it was not 
possible to treat the initial contributions as received on 5 April, so I was seeking 
compensation for the lost tax relief in the 2019/20 tax year. Now that you accept the 
contributions were received on 5 April that changes the nature of my complaint/loss.
Mr W sent this email three weeks after Aviva told him it would allocate his payment to the 
2019/20 tax year. And in my view this statement points to Mr W accepting this was the first 
time he had mentioned wanting to make further payments into his plan on a specific date for 
the new tax year. 
But Mr W says his communications with Aviva clearly demonstrate he was intending to 
invest in that tax year. I agree he had clearly set out his intention to do so, given he wanted 
to maximise the tax benefits he was entitled to. What I cant see is evidence prior to his 
email on 16 July, giving a specific date for a payment(s). The fact Mr W had the means to do 
so isnt, on its own, evidence that he was intending to invest on 6 April.
I also note that Mr W couldve invested at any time during the course of the complaint. I 
know he had concerns about the tax implications of doing so, which does seem a 
reasonable explanation as to why he didnt invest. But even if this was the case, given how 
much detail he set out in his emails about the impact Avivas decision was having on him, I 
wouldve expected some reference to him being unable to make a specific payment at a 
particular point in time. But I cant see any reference to him saying hed been denied the 
opportunity to invest £8,000 on 6 April as he said he had always intended to do. 
Mr W, in his submissions to this service, has argued it would be a mistake to concentrate 
just on 6 April. He points to his email to Aviva on 31 May where he clearly says he was 
intending to invest in the tax year 2020/21. Based on this, he says Aviva should let him pay 
£8,000 into his plan based on the unit price on or before 31 May, because the email of this 
date makes it clear he was being denied this opportunity at that point. 
Mr Ws email dated 31 May, like other communications he had with Aviva up until 16 July, 
still didnt point to any intention to make a payment on any specific day. It simply points to 
the fact he was intending to invest at some time in the tax year 2020/21 to meet his objective 
of claiming higher rate tax relief. Given the matter was resolved by 23 June when Aviva 
changed its position, he still had over eight months to make his contribution so that he could 
meet his objectives. Based on all the evidence, I cant fairly say it was more likely than not 
that Aviva denied Mr W the opportunity to invest and/ or meet his objectives, as he was 
always intending to do.For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr W will be disappointed by this outcome, Im not going 
to ask Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has done enough to put things 
right for its mistake, so it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman