DRN-2331808
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc treated him unfairly when the term of his 
interest only mortgage expired.
What happened
Mr Ds interest only mortgage with Co-op Bank expired in 2015 with an unpaid balance. 
When Mr D brought his complaint to us in late 2019, he said hed told Co-op Bank he was in 
the process of re-mortgaging. Despite this, it harassed him and threatened legal action. 
Our investigator said Co-op Bank hadnt been unfair. Mr D hadnt provided evidence the re-
mortgage would complete in a reasonable timeframe. Co-op Bank hadnt applied legal fees 
to Mr Ds account.
Mr D didnt agree, and commented in detail. He referred to media reports about lenders 
treating customers unfairly and whether this service is impartial. Mr D said information 
provided to us by Co-op Bank wasnt accurate and he didnt receive letters Co-op Bank said 
it had sent. Mr D said the investigator hadnt given him an opportunity to respond to what 
Co-op Bank said had happened before he issued his view. Mr D said a key issue was why 
Co-op Bank pursued legal action in late 2019 without seeking additional information from 
him about his progress in re-mortgaging.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties are well aware of the history here, some of which has been the subject of 
previous complaints, and so I wont go through it in detail. Ive read Mr Ds comments 
following the investigators view. This service is impartial. We provide an informal dispute 
resolution service, and in keeping with this I wont comment on everything Mr D said. 
Instead, Ill focus on whats at the heart of the complaint Mr D brought to us, and which Mr D 
says is a key issue: whether Co-op Bank was unfair to start and continue legal action in late 
2019 when he was in the process of re-mortgaging. 
What happened?
Mr Ds mortgage expired in August 2015. He looked into ways of repaying it, including selling 
the security property, selling one or more of his other properties, letting out the property, and 
re-mortgaging with Co-op or another provider. 
Co-op Bank wrote to Mr D in September 2019 saying it intended to start possession 
proceedings. In October 2019, it wrote to say it had instructed solicitors and possession 
proceedings had started. 
Mr D told Co-op Bank he intended to re-mortgage and repay the mortgage. Co-op Bank said 
it required documents confirming the date of Mr Ds proposed re-mortgage before holding 
proceedings. 
When the complaint came to us in late 2019, the Co-op Bank said it would hold legal action if 
Mr D sent a copy of his mortgage offer. Mr D declined, saying hed told Co-op Bank hed 
repay the mortgage in late 2019, he didnt want any more dealings with Co-op Bank and it 
was for Co-op Bank to decide whether to proceed with legal action. Mr D said he wasnt 
concerned that Co-op Bank had a hearing date for January 2020 as hed have repaid the 
mortgage before then.
Mr D repaid his mortgage with Co-op Bank in December 2019.
Did Co-op Bank treat Mr D fairly?
Mr D borrowed the money from Co-op Bank and he did have to repay it, as he agreed to do 
when he borrowed the money. Fairness suggests, as a starting point, this should have 
happened when the term expired in 2015.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Co-op Bank to start possession action in late 
2019. The mortgage term expired more than four years before this. Co-op Bank had allowed 
Mr D time to explore his options. Mr D had looked into various options for repayment, 
unfortunately without success, and the Co-op Bank had given him time to do this. 
Mr D contacted the Co-op Bank after it started possession proceedings to say hed repay the 
mortgage by re-mortgaging with a different provider. 
Lenders should only take possession as a last resort. So it could be unfair for a lender to 
continue possession action while a customer is in the process of re-mortgaging. 
In other circumstances, I might have reached a different conclusion. But in the 
circumstances here, I think it was fair for Co-op Bank to ask for evidence of Mr Ds re-
mortgage and the timescales involved. Co-op Bank had given Mr D time to pursue other 
routes to repay the mortgage which hadnt been successful. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Co-op Bank to ask for a copy of the mortgage offer, which Mr D could have provided via 
this service if he didnt want to contact Co-op Bank directly. He didnt do so, knowing this 
would mean Co-op Bank would continue with possession proceedings. 
Mr D says he didnt receive all the letters Co-op Bank says it sent. While this is unfortunate, 
Mr D was aware of the possession action and that he could provide evidence of his re-
mortgage if he wanted Co-op Bank to put action on hold. I dont think Co-op Bank needed to 
send additional reminders about this to Mr D. I dont think it needed to ask the field agent to 
get back in contact with him to discuss this.
Mr D said letters from the solicitors were intimidating and unethical. I appreciate that its 
upsetting to receive letters about court hearings and possession action. But as I dont think it 
was unfair for Co-op Bank to instruct solicitors to start possession action, I cant fairly find it 
was wrong for the solicitors to write to Mr D about this.
I dont think Co-op Bank needed to notify Mr D that the court hearing scheduled for January 
2020 had been cancelled. I think this would have been apparent as the mortgage had been 
repaid. And Mr D told us he wasnt concerned about the court hearing and had no intention 
of attending, and so I dont think hed have been worried about this. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman