DRN-4469133
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
declined a claim he made on his annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr M was abroad and about to embark on his return journey to the UK. 
After arriving at the airport, he was told that the second leg of his return flight had been 
cancelled. He subsequently re-booked tickets at his own expense so that he could get back 
to the UK. His claim is for the cost of accommodation at the departure point and for the re-
booked flights.
Chaucer declined the claim on the basis that the reason for the cancellation was not 
covered.
Our investigator thought that it was fair and reasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim, in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr M disagrees and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on Chaucer by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the 
requirement for Chaucer to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Mr M struggled to get written confirmation from the airline about the reason for the 
cancellation. But he was eventually told that it was for operational reasons.
Under the Delayed Departure, Transport Cancellation and Abandonment heading, the 
policy sets out a defined list of events where cover is provided. It says:
We will pay up to the amount shown on the schedule of cover relating to the policy type you 
have purchased as shown on your certificate per insured person per trip. If as a direct result 
of:
- Strike
- Industrial Action (which was not publicly known of at the time you purchased your 
policy or booked your trip)
- Adverse weather conditions
- Mechanical breakdown
So, a claim would only be covered if the cancellation was due to one of the listed reasons. It 
follows that, if a reason isnt listed, then it isnt covered. Clearly operational reasons isnt 
included in the list and therefore isnt an insured event under the policy terms.
Operational reasons is a wide term that doesnt really explain why the flight was cancelled. 
Without further information, that leaves the possibility open that the cancellation was due to 
one of the listed events. However, Chaucer can only assess the claim using the information 
that is available. As it currently stands, Im satisfied that Chaucer was entitled to decline the 
claim.
Chaucer has told Mr M that if he is able to get the airline to provide a more specific reason, 
which then aligns with the list set out above, that it would be happy to review the claim. In 
the circumstances I think that is a reasonable response.
It must be very frustrating for Mr M that the airline, so far, hasnt engaged with him more fully 
to clarify what happened. I have a great deal of sympathy for his situation. But, looking at the 
way that Chaucer has assessed the claim, Im unable to conclude that it has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman