DRN-4428387
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) reduced the 
settlement for a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Reference to Red Sands includes agents and representatives. And, for simplicity, Ill refer to 
Mrs K as the lead policyholder only.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mrs K took out a home insurance policy in March 2022 through a comparison 
website. It was underwritten by Red Sands.
In December 2022 she got in touch with Red Sands about a water problem in an 
outbuilding. It appointed companies to establish the cause of the problem and a leak 
was identified in the outbuilding loft. Mrs K arranged for a plumber to fix the leak and 
Red Sands accepted the claim for the building damage caused by the water.
Red Sands said it wouldnt pay the claim in full. The outbuilding was insured for 
£50,000 but it said it should have been around twice that, so it offered to pay 50% of 
the claim value based on applying average.
Mrs K didnt think that was fair. Amongst other things, she said she hadnt found an 
easy way for a layperson to accurately estimate a rebuild cost. She thought 10% of 
the overall rebuild cost would be reasonable for the outbuilding  which was around 
the £50,000 shed insured it for. Red Sands didnt change its position.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Red Sands sales 
process didnt explain what costs Mrs K should take into account to estimate the 
rebuild cost of the outbuilding and nor did it offer any guidance on how she might go 
about estimating such a cost. Also, Mrs Ks recent pre-purchase survey didnt provide 
a rebuild figure for the outbuilding, so she had no professional information to rely on. 
She estimated around 10% of the overall rebuild cost  and that didnt seem 
unreasonable. Lastly, our investigator said Red Sands policy didnt contain an 
average clause. And the approach it had taken didnt reflect the impact on the 
premium charged if Mrs K ought to have provided a higher rebuild cost.
To put things right, she asked Red Sands to settle the claim in full and to pay £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs K agreed but Red Sands didnt. It said Mrs K had explored many options when 
taking out the policy, which meant some of the information she gave didnt represent 
the facts and were based on the impact on the premium alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When responding to Mrs Ks complaint and during our investigation, Red Sands has 
mentioned a number of reasons why it considers some of the information she 
provided when taking out the policy was wrong or unreasonable. But it only relied on 
one point to reduce the claim  the sum insured for the outbuilding. As it hasnt relied 
on the other reasons at all, I dont think theyre relevant, so I wont consider them. Ill 
focus on the outbuilding sum insured as that is relevant.
Red Sands reduced the claim settlement by 50% on the basis it thought Mrs K had 
underinsured the outbuilding by 50%. In its complaint response, it said it was taking 
the industry standard approach of applying average. Our investigator pointed out 
that Red Sands policy didnt contain any such clause. Red Sands hasnt challenged 
this. Ive checked the policy and I cant see any such clause either.
This means Red Sands reduced the claim settlement without having a contractual 
right to do so. Rather than relying on a policy term, it was relying on the idea that its 
approach was industry standard and that somehow gave it a right to act as it did. I 
dont agree that applying average is a standard approach across the industry. And for 
me to agree it was a fair approach for an insurer to take in a particular case, I would 
at least expect to see a clearly worded policy term  amongst other things. But even 
if Red Sands did have such a policy term, I still dont think it would be fair to apply it. 
Ill explain why.
Red Sands reason for reducing the claim settlement is because it says Mrs K is 
underinsured. That means Red Sands doesnt think she gave the right information 
about the rebuild cost for her outbuilding when she took out the policy. In these 
circumstances, I think the fair thing to do is to consider the sales journey at that time. 
That means thinking about what information she was asked to provide, what she did 
provide and whether that was reasonable.
Red Sands says the comparison website didnt ask Mrs K to provide a value for her 
outbuilding. But once she was transferred through to Red Sands own website to 
complete the sales journey, she was invited to provide a value. The website said: 
The outbuilding  would cost (blank space) to replace. And Mrs K had to enter a 
value in the blank space. There was no surrounding guidance or information about 
how to estimate the cost to replace the outbuilding. Mrs K entered £50,000.
Red Sands says this wasnt a reasonable figure. Thats because its loss adjuster said 
the rebuild cost was just over £100,000. However, this estimate was carried out 
nearly a year after Mrs K took out the policy, so its unlikely to reflect the cost at the 
relevant time. Nor is it clear how this figure has been estimated  no breakdown, 
calculation or explanation has been provided. Just a number. But even if it was 
clearly set out and adjusted to the relevant time, Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
rely on such a figure. Thats because Mrs K wouldnt have been aware of it at the 
time she took out the policy  and the question didnt require her to take professional 
advice, such as that as loss adjuster may provide.
Mrs K bought the property in 2021 and had a pre-purchase survey carried out by a 
reputable surveying organisation at that time. It estimated the overall rebuild value of 
the property at £476,000 but didnt break that down between the main house and outbuilding. A year later, when taking out the policy, Mrs K gave a figure of around 
10% for the outbuilding. Red Sands hasnt presented any reason why this was an 
unreasonable way for her to approach it.
I bear in mind that the website didnt explain what was to be included within the 
rebuild cost figure and didnt offer any guidance about how to estimate such a figure. 
Mrs K had no professional estimate for the outbuilding to rely on and wasnt required 
to obtain such. She used a professional estimate as a basis for the figure she gave. 
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied her answer was unreasonable. So I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for her claim settlement to be reduced. To do so 
would effectively penalise her, despite her giving reasonable information based on 
the limitations of the sales process and the information she had available at the time.
Even if Mrs Ks answer were unreasonable, I would then go on to consider what 
impact that had on Red Sands. So, if she ought to have given a higher figure, what, if 
anything, would Red Sands have done differently?
It says that if it had been told by Mrs K the rebuild cost for the outbuilding was 
£100,000, it would have increased the premium by £0.02, or 2p. That means Mrs K 
paid over 99.99% of the premium Red Sands says she should have done. In these 
circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair for Red Sands to reduce the claim 
settlement at all and certainly not to 50%. Mrs K has effectively paid the premium 
Red Sands says she ought to have done, even if she should have given a higher 
rebuild cost when taking out the policy  which I dont agree is the case.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied Red Sands acted fairly when it 
reduced the claim settlement. It should now settle the claim without making a 
reduction for what it perceives to be underinsurance. The policy terms and conditions 
remain, such as the excess.
I understand Mrs K has had the work carried out, so the claim will need to be settled 
by cash payment. This complaint is solely about whether Red Sands could make a 
percentage reduction of the claim settlement  not what the full claim settlement 
value should be, so I havent considered that. Mrs K and Red Sands should explore 
what the full claim settlement should be.
I understand Red Sands has already paid Mrs K £15,000. Any amount it pays to 
settle the claim over and above that should have interest added from the date Mrs K 
paid for the work to be done as Mrs K has been without that money unfairly.
As a result of Red Sands unfairly reducing the claim settlement, the claim has taken 
longer to resolve than it otherwise would have done. That means Mrs K has lived 
with the damage and has had to deal with the claim and complaint for longer than 
she ought to have done. As a result, I think shes suffered avoidable distress and 
inconvenience. Im satisfied £300 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) to:Settle the claim without making a deduction for underinsurance, subject to the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Pay interest on the cash payment, over and above £15,000, at 8% simple per year, 
from the date Mrs K paid for the work to the date of settlement*.
Pay £300 compensation**.
*If Red Sands considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr K and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
K and Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
**Red Sands must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr K and Mrs 
K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award 
from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman