DRN-4299884
The complaint
Mr T and Ms L complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr T and Ms L have travel insurance underwritten by Aviva as a 
benefit of a bank account. Mr T and Ms L planned a trip with intended departure and 
return dates of 1 October 2022 and 14 October 2022 respectively. 
During the trip, on 5 October 2022, Ms L became unwell with bacterial gastroenteritis 
(food poisoning). They say that they continued to travel to reach the next hotel on their 
itinerary so that Ms L could recover but didnt take part in the planned activities. Ms Ls 
condition got worse, so on 8 October 2022, Mr T contacted Ms Ls family doctor in a third 
country (not the UK). Ms L says that her family doctor advised her to return to the UK as 
soon as possible. 
On 9 October 2022, Mr T and Ms L contacted Aviva to notify them of a claim. Aviva 
arranged for a medical assessor to assist Ms L. When the medical assessor contacted 
Ms L on 10 October 2022, Mr T and Ms L were already on their way to the airport for a 
flight to a third country. The assessor prescribed medication and gave advice. Mr T and 
Ms L returned to the UK on 15 October 2022. 
After their return to the UK, Ms L provided Aviva with a letter dated 14 October 2022 
from her family doctor in the third country. Mr T and Ms L made a claim for pre-paid, 
unused trip and flight costs. They say that their medical costs were covered by another 
insurer. Mr T and Ms L didnt make a claim for additional flight costs. 
Aviva declined the claim. It gave various reasons for doing so but ultimately said that 
theres no cover for returning home early unless costs have been preauthorised and 
there was no medical reason for curtailing the trip. Mr T and Ms L didnt think that was 
fair and pursued their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. The investigator said that she 
wasnt persuaded that there was a medical reason for Mr T and Ms L to go to the third 
country. She said that Aviva didnt handle the claim well which caused Mr T and Ms L 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator thought fair compensation for that is £75.
Aviva accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr T and Ms L didnt. They said, 
in summary:
Compensation of £75 wasnt sufficient as Aviva lied in order to avoid paying their 
claim. 
They went to the third country instead of the UK as the flights to the UK were 
unaffordable. 
It was impossible to remain on their itinerant tour, so Aviva would have had to 
pay for a different hotel for the remainder of their trip in any event.
Ms Ls family doctor in the third country visited her on 14 October 2022 and 
signed the letter. The doctor referred to returning to the third country, rather than 
the UK, as Ms L was in the third country at that time. 
Ms Ls illness affected her mental health and going to the third country where she 
could stay with family and see her family doctor helped her enormously. 
The investigator considered what Mr T and Ms L said but didnt change her view. There were 
further exchanges, which I wont set out here. As there was no agreement between the 
parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 28 July 2023 I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I indicated 
that Id come to the same outcome as our investigator but for different reasons. I said: 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
B. Cancelling or coming home early
What well cover
Well pay the costs shown below if an insured person unavoidably has to cancel their trip or 
come home early if one of these events happens
i. illness [] of an insured person
[]
Well pay the following:
Unrecoverable costs that each insured person has paid or legally has to pay for their 
own unused personal travel and accommodation, as well as unused pre-paid costs 
associated with the trip (e.g. pre-paid excursions, green fees, or kennel or cattery 
fees): and/or 
Additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the insured person to return 
home early if they cannot use their return ticket. 
[]We wont cover
[]
Any claim for coming home early after the insured person has chosen to move to 
alternative accommodation
The policy defines trip as  a journey that begins and ends in England, Scotland, Wales, 
and Norther Ireland (UK), where the return journey has been booked before leaving the UK, 
for the purposes of [] A holiday []
has Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably?
I uphold Mr T and Ms Ls complaint in part. I think that Aviva made errors in its handling of 
Mr T and Ms Ls claim, but I dont think that its decision to decline their claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Subject to the policy terms, Mr T and Ms L have cover for curtailment of a trip in 
certain circumstances. A trip is defined as one which starts and ends in the UK and 
where the return journey has been booked before leaving the UK. In the 
circumstances here, Mr T and Ms Ls trip wasnt curtailed. Their intended return date  
was 14 October 2022. They returned to the UK on 15 October 2022. Mr T and Ms L 
didnt return home early, they went to a third country and returned to the UK later 
than they had originally planned.
Mr T and Ms L chose to move to accommodation in a third country. Even if Mr T and 
Ms L had returned to the UK earlier than originally planned, theres an exclusion in 
the policy in relation to any claim for curtailment after the insured has chosen to 
move to alternative accommodation. 
Ive noted what Mr T and Ms L say about why they travelled to the third country 
rather than return early to the UK  the flight costs to the UK were prohibitive and   
Ms L wanted to recover with her family and with access to her family doctor. I quite 
understand why Ms L wanted to go to the third country, but thats not something 
thats covered by the policy. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay a claim where the 
trip was extended, not curtailed. Even if Mr T and Ms Ls trip had been curtailed, I 
think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the exclusion Ive referred to above.  
Mr T and Ms L say that if they had stayed in the country of their trip destination, Aviva 
would have had to pay for alternative accommodation costs, as Ms L was too unwell 
to continue to travel in accordance with their planned itinerary. Im looking at the 
claim Mr T and Ms L actually made, not a claim they may have made in different 
circumstances. It doesnt alter the outcome here, but I think that Aviva was entitled to rely on the 
advice of the doctor it arranged to call Ms L and its in-house medical team and come 
to the view that there was no medical reason to curtail the trip. Aviva would not have 
advised Ms L to fly whilst she had food poisoning and would generally require an 
individual to wait 24-48 hours after the last episode of illness before flying. Theres 
nothing in the report by Ms Ls family doctor that would lead me to the conclusion that 
Avivas approach was unfair or unreasonable.      
I think that Aviva made errors in handling Mr T and Ms Ls claim. It referred to 
abandonment provisions that arent relevant here, raised questions about the 
provider of Ms Ls medical evidence and misunderstood the elements of their claim. I 
think that led to Mr T and Ms L suffering distress and inconvenience as they were 
engaged in the process of the claim much longer than was necessary. I think fair 
compensation for that is £75.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr T and Ms L didnt make any substantive 
comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr T and Ms L nor Aviva have provided any fresh information or evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my 
earlier conclusions. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Avivas decision to 
decline Mr T and Ms Ls claim was unfair or unreasonable. But I think that Aviva made errors 
in its handling of the claim which caused Mr T and Ms L distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Aviva should pay Mr T and Ms L compensation of £75 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited should pay 
Mr T and Ms L the compensation Ive referred to above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman