DRN-4250003
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to implement a new mortgage fixed 
interest rate product they applied for after it had told them theyd been accepted for it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M say theyve often had difficulty using HSBCs online banking facilities. But, 
after being told they were too early to apply for a new interest rate product in June 2022, 
they applied for a new product via HSBCs online banking facility in July 2022.
They say they were unable to log in to HSBCs on-line banking facility to accept the product 
transfer offer theyd received from HSBC. So, on 7 July 2022, they called HSBC to explain 
their situation. Mr and Mrs M believed, from that call, that theyd accepted the mortgage offer 
and nothing else was required for HSBC to apply the new rate product to their mortgage.
In October 2022 Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage rate changed to HSBCs standard variable rate 
(SVR). Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC and were told their product transfer offer had expired. 
They complained to HSBC as they believed theyd accepted the product transfer offer.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint dated 23 November 2022, HSBC said it could 
see that Mr and Mrs M accepted the offer document on 8 July 2022 and that Mrs M had to 
re-instate her access to its personal Internet Banking (PIB) facility, but that didnt accept the 
offer. It also said it sent Mr and Mrs M messages via PIB to advise them to pay the booking 
fee applicable to the new interest rate product and how to do that. HSBC also said that the 
online application system  the route by which Mr and Mrs M made their application  
explained that the booking fee can be paid while applying or via the PIB. And it confirmed 
theyd need to pay the booking fee before the request for transfer can be processed. The 
letter also confirmed that HSBC had checked to see whether the fee was paid but could not 
find any evidence of payment. It confirmed that it would not honour the rate Mr and Mrs M 
had applied for because it hadnt made an error.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr and Mrs M asked us to consider their complaint. 
They said their telephone call to HSBC of 7 July 2022 shows what they wished to do.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She thought HSBC had made it 
clear to Mr and Mrs M that they needed to pay the booking fee to secure the new rate 
product. Mr and Mrs M hadnt paid the fee and as our investigator had seen no error on 
HSBCs part, she didnt ask it to apply the rate Mr and Mrs M had applied for.
Mr and Mrs M replied to our investigators opinion. They say the letters HSBC have referred 
to were only ever sent electronically, and then only to inboxes within the banking app they 
didnt know existed  my documents and secure messages. And they say evidence 
(screen shots) theyve provided shows those communication routes werent regularly used 
by HSBC to communicate with Mr and Mrs M. So, they say, it wasnt reasonable for HSBC to 
have expected them to have regularly checked those inboxes for communication about their 
mortgage application  without any prompting to do so via a more usual communication 
method. And they point to another, unrelated (later) example where HSBC did do that.       
Mr and Mrs M say HSBC would have known when a message wasnt opened and therefore 
should have prompted them to do so, either by other correspondence methods or during 
phone calls before the deadline.
With regard to the booking fee, Mr and Mrs M say they were aware of it but, following their 
phone call with HSBC on 7 July 2022, they believed all actions to secure the rate had been 
completed, including settlement of the fee.
Mr and Mrs M have had further correspondence with our investigator  all of which Ive 
considered carefully  but did not reach agreement with regard to the outcome of their 
complaint. Our investigator remained of the opinion their complaint should not be upheld. As 
they didnt agree, their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that I can see theyve been frustrated with the 
communication methods used by HSBC; that HSBC appears to have been inconsistent with 
its use of those communication methods; and that, during their phone call with HSBC on      
7 July 2022, they wanted the process finalised. And, given what Ive seen here, I agree that 
HSBCs process  particularly its communication  could have been simpler to follow. I say 
that mindful of the fact that it also appears that Mr and Mrs M chose to apply for their 
mortgage via HSBCs website, rather than via an HSBC mortgage advisor.
However, to decide this complaint Ive focussed on whether I think Mr and Mrs M should 
have known there was a booking fee required to secure the new interest rate product, 
whether they paid that fee before the deadline and whether they ought to have known that 
they hadnt paid that fee by the deadline. I say that because I think those are the key turning 
points in relation to their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer, issued on 30 June 2022, says, to accept the offer, they 
needed to follow the instructions theyd been provided with separately. Separate 
communications state before we can change your rate, you will need to pay any outstanding 
fees and Total booking fee : GBP 999.00; Booking fee not Capitalised: GBP 999.00. I think 
that indicates that Mr and Mrs M had opted not to add the booking fee to their mortgage. But 
it appears that, as Mr and Mrs M have said, those messages were sent to an inbox they say 
they were not aware of. So that doesnt show that Mr and Mrs M were aware that the fee 
needed to be paid before the rate could be secured.
In correspondence with us Mr and Mrs M have said We accept that we were aware there 
was a fee to pay with this product. And, in response to the following point made in our 
investigators opinion:
Section 3 [of the mortgage offer] sets out information about the interest rate and 
other costs. The description of the cost reads: Fixed Rate Booking Fee (non-
refundable): £999.00 is payable to HSBC upon acceptance of this mortgage Rate 
Switching Offer.
Mr and Mrs M said:
There was a document that comes up on screen as you go through the on-line 
switch application. This did indeed come up on screen, but nothing was sent to us.Ive taken that response to mean the confirmation of the booking fee, as outlined in our 
investigators opinion, came up on screen, but was never sent to them as a letter or standard 
email. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were made aware of the booking fee and that was 
communicated to them, at least once, in a way they actually saw. I think its clear they were 
aware of the booking fee.
Given the description of the fee  that its called a booking fee and it said the fee is payable 
on accepting the mortgage offer  I think its reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to have 
known theyd have to pay it to book or secure the interest rate product. I understand that 
they think the HSBC representative should have prompted Mrs M to make the payment 
when she phoned on 7 July 2022. But having listened to a recording of the call, my 
understanding is that representative wasnt a mortgage advisor/administrator. The 
representative specifically helped Mrs M with the online banking app  the purpose of the 
call  and that got Mrs M to the stage where she could accept the offer. I think Mrs M ought 
to have known a booking fee was payable on the product Mr and Mrs M had applied for 
rather than the representative. Had they asked to pay that fee, I think its likely the 
representative would have been able to facilitate that request or redirect them to someone 
who could.
As Ive said above a document, albeit not necessarily seen by Mr and Mrs M, shows that the 
fee was not capitalised. I think its more likely than not that the application process would 
have made that clear or Mr and Mrs M opted not to have the fee added to the mortgage. So, 
I think they would have known it remained unpaid at the point where both of them had 
accepted the new interest rate offer. I think Mr and Mrs M would have known if they had or 
hadnt paid the fee between accepting the offer and the deadline and theres no evidence to 
suggest either of them made contact with HSBC specifically to do so. So, I can only 
conclude that they allowed the deadline to pass without making arrangements to pay the 
booking fee.
While I understand the other aspects to this complaint  particularly those around 
communication  have caused frustration, if Mr and Mrs M had ensured they paid the 
booking fee before the deadline, I think they would have secured the interest rate they 
wanted. So, I dont think HSBC were the cause of Mr and Mrs M not securing the interest 
rate product they wanted. That means I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman