DRN-3149313
The complaint
Mrs A has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt process a chargeback for money 
she spent to purchase a wooden swing set online.
What happened
Mrs A made a purchase from an online merchant in August 2020. Mrs A says she ordered a 
wooden swing but the item she was sent was not as she expected. When Mrs A lodged her 
claim with Barclays, she described the item received as scarf like.
Mrs A says she contacted the merchant about the item, but she received no response. Mrs A 
then contacted Barclays on 18 September 2020 raising a dispute about the merchant. 
Barclays confirmed it would look into the matter and temporarily refunded Mrs A with the 
purchase price. 
Mrs A says she contacted Barclays a number of times to find out what was happening with 
her claim, and if she needed to take any further action. Barclays says it informed Mrs A it 
would let her know if it needed anything further. 
Barclays contacted the merchant as part of its review of the dispute, and the information it 
received prompted it to contact Mrs A asking for more information. Barclays says it wrote to 
Mrs A on 21 October 2020 requesting further information about the dispute. The letter was 
also available on Mrs As online banking account. Mrs A says she did not receive this letter 
and she did not check her online account for correspondence. 
As no response was received from Mrs A, Barclays wrote to her in January 2021 explaining 
that it had closed down the chargeback dispute and it would be debiting Mrs As account 
with the purchase price. 
Mrs A raised a complaint with Barclays about how it handled her claim. Mrs A said she 
contacted Barclays numerous times and she never received its letter requesting more 
information. Barclays explained it had sent the letter to Mrs As correct address. It said the 
visa scheme rules for chargeback has specific rules, and as it had raised a dispute once 
already, it would not be able to reopen it and pursue the claim further.
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and 
thought Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances. In particular the investigator found 
Barclays had pursued the chargeback claim reasonably. Mrs A remained unhappy, so the 
complaint has been referred to me  an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A is essentially unhappy with how Barclays has handled her chargeback claim. 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider look to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the individual card scheme provider. In this case the card provider was 
VISA. 
The chargeback process can potentially go through three stages. Its ultimately at the 
discretion of the bank how and if to pursue the chargeback. But it must exercise this 
discretion fairly and reasonably and with a good consideration of the evidence it has 
available.
Ive thought about this all when looking at Mrs As case and I can see Barclays followed 
general chargeback guidance by granting a temporary refund and presenting the claim to the 
merchant. In Mrs As case I can see Barclays contacted the merchant promptly and it 
provided evidence to defend its position. This included the order details and its refund policy. 
At this stage Barclays decided it would ask for further information from Mrs A before 
reaching a decision regarding the chargeback.
I can see Mrs A contacted Barclays a number of times in the initial stage of the chargeback 
process. Mrs A says she was trying to find out what she needed to do, or if she needed to 
provide further information. Barclays says it informed her it would be in touch via letter if it 
needed anything else. I understand this must have been frustrating for Mrs A as she was 
pro-actively trying to ensure her claim was moving forward. However, it seems at this stage it 
was not clear what Barclays required from her. This was very much dependant on the 
information it received from the merchant. 
The merchant defended its position, which prompted Barclays to get in touch with Mrs A. I 
can see a letter was sent asking Mrs A for more information. Mrs A says she did not receive 
this letter. Looking at the letter, it appears to have her correct address. I also note that other 
correspondence sent to Mrs A at this address has been received. I understand Mrs A is 
adamant she did not receive this letter. Whilst I accept Mrs A may not have received the 
letter, based on the evidence I have seen I am satisfied Barclays sent it. So, I cant hold 
Barclays responsible if that letter wasnt then received by Mrs A.  Barclays has also 
confirmed Mrs A wouldve been able to access the letter through her online bank account. I 
understand Mrs A says she didnt check this. However, given Barclays has tried to contact 
Mrs A using two methods, I think it was reasonable for it to close down the chargeback claim 
in January 2021. 
I understand Mrs A feels strongly that Barclays should reopen her claim and pursue the 
chargeback against the merchant. However, Barclays pursued the claim in line with the 
scheme rules, and left the claim open from October 2021 to January 2022 whilst it awaited 
information from Mrs A. Barclays would not have been aware Mrs A didnt receive the letter it 
sent asking for more information. I think Barclays kept the claim open for a reasonable 
amount of time and given the scheme time frames I can see why Barclays has said it is 
unable to re-open the claim. 
I know Mrs A will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on her complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman