DRN-4112483
The complaint
Mr P complaints that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt advise him of the risks of  
investing in cryptocurrency encouraging him to do so. He would like compensation for his  
investment loss and £5000 compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate Mr Ps concerns about a significant investment loss. I think its 
important to note that Barclays role is not to act as a financial adviser  to Mr P. It 
does however have a duty to try to protect consumers from possible fraud. Barclays 
initially blocked Mr Ps payments as they were flagged up by its fraud monitoring 
system. Whilst I appreciate the frustration this might cause, fraud prevention systems 
are there to protect both consumers and the bank, so I think Barclays actions were 
entirely reasonable.
I have listened to six phone calls Mr P had with Barclays between 6 November 2022 
and 12 November 2022. None of these calls were rushed and I heard no evidence of 
any pressure from Barclays for Mr P to make the payments. In the relevant calls 
Barclays noted Mr P had been making cryptocurrency investments for approximately 
a year, had sole access to his account, regularly reviewed his portfolio and had been 
able to withdraw funds successfully. Mr P seemed calm and aware of what he was 
doing. Mr P said he found Barclays checks  very thorough and inconvenient but 
reassuring albeit in one call he did express his frustration at the delays in making 
payments. I found Barclays approach to be appropriate and proportionate in the 
circumstances
I have found no evidence that Barclays encouraged Mr P to make cryptocurrency 
investments. I think Barclays  asked appropriate questions to ensure that Mr P was 
aware of what he was doing giving him every opportunity not to go ahead with the 
transactions. On this basis I cant reasonably ask Barclays to refund the losses Mr P 
says he incurred or to compensate him in the way he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman