DRN-3839684
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased
the credit limit on his credit card account to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mr G opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in 2014. The credit limit on Mr Gs card 
was increased four times between July 2014 and July 2018. The last of these increases took 
Mr Gs credit limit to £9,500. His credit limit was then decreased to £9,250 in March 2020.
In February 2021 Mr Gs credit card was defaulted.
Mr G complained to Barclaycard about these credit limit changes. In summary, Mr G said:
- it refused to cancel the card when he requested it in 2014
- it increased his credit limit without checking that he could afford it
- excessive interest and charges were applied to his account
- it unfairly reduced his credit limit in 2020, leading to the default
- it did not respond to his complaint appropriately
Barclaycard didnt agree that it had treated Mr G unfairly, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns. They explained that we could only look at the 
limit increases from 2015 onwards and that any increases prior to then  as well as Mr Gs 
complaint that the account wasnt closed in 2014  had been bought to us too late. 
Ultimately two of our ombudsmen issued decisions agreeing with the Investigator that we 
could not consider those aspects of Mr Gs complaint. 
The Investigator then looked into the credit limit increases from 2015 onwards, and how 
Barclaycard had handled Mr Gs concerns about his financial situation and his complaint. 
And ultimately, having considered all the evidence, the Investigator didnt think Barclaycard 
had treated Mr G unfairly. But Mr G disagreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
My decision will focus on the credit limit increases that took place from 2015 onwards, and 
associated issues, I will not be commenting any further on the issues already addressed by 
my colleagues in their decisions. Mr G has since also raised concerns about how 
Barclaycard dealt with what he says was a persistent debt on this account. I will also not be 
commenting on those concerns, as Mr G will need to raise that issue with Barclaycard in the 
first instance, and can then refer those concerns to our service as a new complaint if he is 
unhappy with Barclaycards response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
This complaint by Mr G is about increases to a credit card account credit limit in March 2015 
 when the limit was increased from £3,000 to £6,000  June 2016  when the limit was 
increased to £9,000  and July 2018  when the limit was increased to £9,500. 
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any
lending or credit application. The level of those checks will vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. 
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and at Mr Gs account statements. Mr G has 
also been able to provide us with his full credit file, although that will go back only six years 
and so Im aware it may not give us all the information about his circumstances in March 
2015 and July 2016 when two of the limit increases I am looking at took place. I must also 
acknowledge that, given how long ago it was, Barclaycard no longer has detailed records of 
the checks it carried out regarding the March 2015 limit increase, it has though been able to 
give us detailed information regarding the 2016 and 2018 limit increases. 
And I can see that before the 2016 and 2018 credit limit increases Barclaycard looked at 
information from Mr Gs credit file and at affordability assessments which he comfortably 
passed. On the balance of probabilities, I think its likely that Barclaycard carried out similar 
checks before the 2015 limit increase as well. The data that Barclaycard considered included 
information about Mr Gs overall indebtedness, and an assessment of his ability to repay any 
credit he was offered. This data suggested to Barclaycard Mr G would be able to afford the 
credit limit increases it was offering to him. Barclaycard says it also looked at how Mr G had 
been managing his credit card account in the months preceding each limit increase.
Looking at his statements for the period before each increase, I cant see that there was 
anything that would have caused Barclaycard particular concern regarding his ability to 
maintain his account with the new credit limit on each occasion. Mr Gs account was largely 
well maintained and rarely over its arranged limit, he maintained at least the minimum 
repayment required each month, and often overpaid, sometimes by large amounts. For 
example, he had repaid the full outstanding balance of the card around six months before 
the March 2015 increase and around four months before the July 2018 increase. 
The spending on the account also didnt suggest any signs of financial difficulty, the account 
wasnt generally being used for day-to-day essential expenditure. And although Mr G has 
said he was withdrawing cash to pay back in to cover the repayments at some points in time, 
I cant see any evidence that would have been clear to Barclaycard that this was happening. 
There were cash withdrawals on the account, but these didnt obviously line up with 
payments into the account in either timing or amount, so I cant see how Barclaycard would 
have made any link there.
Ive also looked closely at Mr Gs credit file. As stated above, theres limited information 
about his situation in 2015 and 2016 when the first two of the increases Im looking at took 
place. But his credit file does show that from at least November 2016  four months after the 
2016 limit increase  he had no other credit cards or loans, and that all his accounts were 
well maintained until the latter part of 2020, around two years after the last credit limit 
increase in 2018. The fact that Mr G was able to maintain his account for so long without any 
knock-on effect on his financial situation elsewhere suggests to me that these limit increases 
were not noticeably unaffordable at the time they were given.This doesnt mean Mr G wasnt struggling financially  hes told us that he was being 
supported by family members to make repayments and I have no reason to doubt what he 
has said  only that I dont consider Barclaycard should have reasonably concluded Mr G 
was in financial difficulty at the times of the credit limit increases from the information it 
considered and assessed. 
Mr G has said his situation deteriorated in March 2020, when he was out of work due to the 
global pandemic. I can see that around this time Barclaycard reduced Mr Gs credit limit by 
£250. This limit decrease was done when Mr Gs account was well below the new credit limit 
of £9,250, but I appreciate that Mr G was then, in the following month, over his credit limit 
due to spending. I can also see though that he was able to rectify this situation quickly, 
paying in enough to bring his account back within limit the following month, and that he didnt 
incur any overlimit fee for this. So I cant see that this decrease was the direct reason for his 
account ultimately defaulting.
This was around the time that Barclaycard agreed a temporary payment holiday with Mr G. 
When that payment holiday expired, Barclaycard says it asked Mr G if he needed an 
extended payment holiday, but he didnt fill in the necessary form. And I can see from 
Barclaycards notes that Mr G did discuss his account with it at that time, so its clear he 
knew that a default was possible. It appears though that he did not want to agree a 
repayment plan for the debt at that stage. So, when Mr Gs account didnt receive any 
payments in the months after the payment holiday ended and no new repayment plan was 
agreed, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to take steps to default the account.
Looking at the interest and charges applied to Mr Gs account overall, these appear to have 
been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And by defaulting the 
account when it became clear that Mr G was unable to maintain it Barclaycard ensured that 
interest and charges on the outstanding balance would stop at that time. I therefore do not 
consider that any excessive interest or charges were applied to the account either in its 
normal operation or when it began to deteriorate.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing to Mr G, but with everything Ive seen Im satisfied 
Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when deciding to offer to 
increase his credit limit. Im also satisfied that Barclaycard then treated him fairly when his 
circumstances changed and was reasonable to default his account when it did.
Overall, with everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclaycard doesnt need to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman