DRN-4358465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that their claim for a shattered glass skylight was unfairly declined 
by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and they felt RSA didnt do enough to 
provide a temporary repair. RSA provided home insurance which included home emergency 
cover.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim when their glass skylight shattered in their home. Damage was 
caused by the shards of glass that fell into the room below.
Mr and Mrs P wanted RSA to provide a temporary repair to the damaged skylight under their 
home emergency cover, but RSA said the repair required scaffolding to safely work at 
height. RSA said the costs of providing scaffolding wouldve taken the cost of the repair 
above the limits on the policy, so said it wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs P consulted their contractor who installed the skylight and they said he informed 
them the damage was likely caused by expanding particles of nickel sulphide within the 
glass. RSA considered the claim under the storm peril, but as there was no evidence of 
adverse weather at the time of the incident it said it couldnt accept the claim on that basis. It 
also said Mr and Mrs P hadnt paid for accidental damage cover, which was an optional 
extra on the policy, so it wasnt able to consider the damage from this perspective.
Mr and Mrs P want their claim settled in full, including a full clean of their property to remove 
the shards of glass, replacement of the skylight and repairs carried out for all the resulting 
damage.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought RSA had fairly declined 
the claims in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She didnt think there was 
opportunity for Mr and Mrs P to benefit from the policy in these circumstances. Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 5 September 2023. I said:
Not all policies cover every eventuality  they are commonly designed to cover the main 
risks (E.g., storm, theft, fire etc). Policies that cover all risks tend to be expensive, so most 
policies, and as in the case of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, it only provides cover for certain risks. 
RSA has set a premium for the customer based on the level of risk it perceives. This is a 
commercial decision for RSA, and Mr and Mrs P are entitled to shop around to get a policy 
that suits there needs at an affordable price.
Ive considered the points Mr and Mrs P made in terms of not getting a satisfactory response 
to their emergency, in that RSA were unable to make a temporary repair. The home 
emergency response part of the cover is limited to £500. RSA has explained that the cost of 
providing a temporary repair wouldve far exceeded this amount due to the height the repair 
needed to be carried out at and the need for scaffolding.
Mr and Mrs P have explained that when their contractor carried out the repair he did this off 
a ladder. He said he doesnt know how RSA concluded how it did, without even carrying out 
a site survey and a proper risk assessment.
I do have sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ps viewpoint, as I dont think there is evidence of a 
thorough safety assessment by RSA at the time. Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the 
complaint, as Im not sure how RSA couldve reached that conclusion without properly 
reviewing the site. I can see Mr and Mrs Ps contractor charged £250 plus VAT for the 
removal of the broken glass and the emergency clear up.  I sense it has chosen the easy 
option. 
I intend that RSA refunds these costs once Mr and Mrs P has provided valid receipts or 
evidence this amount has been paid. I think RSA not providing a temporary repair wouldve 
caused some distress for Mr and Mrs P for the security of their home and further exposure to 
the elements. I think theyve had to act fast to get a solution, so I think they were 
inconvenienced. So, I intend to award £200 compensation for this.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ps claim for the replacement of the damaged glass and for the 
repair of any damage caused by it shattering. Unfortunately, I wont be upholding this aspect 
of the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think RSA has been fair in considering the claim under the storm peril. But as there were no 
adverse weather conditions, I think it was reasonable not to accept the claim under this peril. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt pay to have accidental cover, so I cant see any other part of the home 
insurance policy that wouldve covered them for this incident. Therefore, I think RSA has 
been reasonable to decline the claim as the policy doesnt cover the damage aspect of the 
incident.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new information, I dont see any reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs P £250 plus VAT for the emergency clear up (on the 
provision of proof of payment)
Pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman