DRN-2394788
The complaint
Mrs O brings a complaint on behalf of herself and her husband, the late Mr O. She 
complains that Phoenix Life Limited, failed to pay out sums due under a number of life 
assurance policies. She also says the policies were mis-sold.
Phoenix Life took over the business of Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited who sold the 
policies to Mrs and Mr O. All references to Phoenix Life will include Abbey Life. Further, 
Mrs O is being represented. All references to Mrs O will include submissions made on her 
behalf.
What happened
Mrs O purchased a whole of life policy from Phoenix Life in 1985 (policy 1). This provided a 
sum assured of £5,400 for monthly premiums of £15. The policy was surrendered in 1997 
and the total premiums paid up until this point was £2,175. A surrender value of £2,842 was 
issued by cheque to Mrs O on in January 1997. Phoenix Lifes systems shows this was 
cashed in March 1997.
In August 1985 Mrs and Mr O purchased a joint whole of life policy (policy 2). Whilst the 
initial sum assured was £27,459, this reduced to £1,338 when payments stopped which was 
equal to the accumulated fund value of the policy at that point. The premiums at the start of 
the policy were £26 escalating at 10% for five years. The policy was surrendered in 1995 
with total premiums paid up to this point of £2,440. Phoenix Life records show a cheque was 
issued for the surrender value of £1,831 to Mrs O and that this was cashed in June 1995.
Mrs O purchased another whole of life policy in January 1987 (policy 3). The monthly 
premiums were £30 providing a sum assured of £2,700. The policy was surrendered in early 
1997 with total premiums paid up to this point of £3,600. The surrender value was paid to 
Mrs O by cheque which totalled £5,172 and was cashed in March 1997.
Mrs and Mr O purchased a joint endowment policy which started in May 1990 (policy 4)  
this was cancelled in 1992 by Phoenix Life due to a pre-existing medical condition that Mr O 
had. The premiums were £85 and the sum assured of £50,000. This was an endowment 
contract with the sum assured payable upon death, permanent disability or diagnosis of one 
of a range of critical illnesses. Phoenix Life refunded the premiums in full which was paid by 
a cheque issued to Mr O in early 1992. The total refunded was £1,631 and the cheque was 
presented in February 1992.
Mrs and Mr O started another policy in June 1995 but this wasnt proceeded with and no 
premiums were ever paid for this policy (policy 5).
Sadly, Mr O passed away in April 1998. Mrs O says from all the policies referred to above, 
she and her husband only received one payment from policy 3 for the sum of £5,172. Mrs O 
also says that she didnt think her and her husband needed the policies. She said these 
were sold to them by an agent of Phoenix Life who visited their home. Mrs O said due to her 
and her husbands level of English, they didnt understand what they were buying.
Phoenix Life said its records show that Mrs and Mr O had received the relevant payments at 
the time they were surrendered or cancelled. Due to the passage of time, Phoenix Life said 
its records are limited but there was sufficient information to show the payments had been 
made. It noted that in respect of policy 4, this was cancelled due to undisclosed health 
conditions of Mr O and the money that had been paid whilst the policy was active, had been 
refunded once it was cancelled. It said that it didnt think any of the policies had been mis-
sold based on the limited information it held about the sale of the policies.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mrs Os complaint. In brief, he considered 
Phoenix Life had provided sufficient information to show the payments had been sent and 
received by Mrs and Mr O. He was also satisfied that the policies hadnt been mis-sold 
based on the standards that applied at the time.
Mrs O disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my 
reasoning, I understand that Mrs O and her representative have raised a number of points 
during their contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point theyve raised, 
Ive considered everything Mrs O and her representative have said but limited my findings to 
the areas which impact on the outcome of the case.
I can see that despite the cause for compliant arising some time ago, Phoenix Life has 
consented for our service looking at this complaint. I also note that due to the passage of 
time, the documentary evidence available both from the Mrs O and Phoenix Life, is limited. 
Where there's a dispute about what happened or the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
In terms of policy 5 as this wasnt proceeded with, and no money was paid towards it, I wont 
consider this policy further in this decision.
Payments
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, Mrs O and/ or Mr O received the 
payments from the policies. Ill explain why.
The records that Phoenix Life have kept about the payments are relatively detailed in that it 
has kept the date the cheques were issued, to whom and the dates the cheques were 
cashed. There is no evidence other than Mrs Os submissions to contradict these records. 
Whilst Ive taken account of what Mrs O has said and it does form part of the evidence Ive 
considered, given the time thats passed I think its unlikely her recollections of what 
happened from so long ago, are accurate.
I consider it likely that if Mrs and Mr O didnt receive the cheques at the time of surrendering 
or cancellation of the policies, this would have led them to raise a complaint with Phoenix 
Life. The sums involved werent insubstantial. But the first time this was complained about 
was more than 20 years later. All in all, Im persuaded by the contemporaneous records that 
show the cheques being issued and cashed by Mrs O or by Mr O.I know Mrs O has questioned why one cheque was addressed to Mr O. I think its likely to 
have been based on the preferences of Mrs and Mr O at the time. In the case of joint 
policies, I dont think Phoenix Life did anything wrong by issuing the cheques to either party.
Mrs O says she thinks the Phoenix Life agent who sold her and her husband the policies at 
their home, had cashed these cheques. But given Phoenix Lifes procedure was to issue 
cheques only in the name of the policyholders, I dont think its likely the cheques were 
cashed by anyone other than the named payee. Mrs O hasnt provided any evidence of the 
allegations shes made against the agent. And I dont think the available evidence supports 
that the cheques were paid to anyone other than Mrs O or Mr O.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this aspect of Mrs Os complaint. Ill now consider 
the complaint about the sale of policies.
Sale of policies 1 to 3
These policies were sold before the introduction of the Financial Services Act 1988. This 
means the sales werent subject to the record-keeping requirements as later sales. There 
was also no specific requirement for any recommendation to be suitable. But Phoenix Lifes 
representative would have been expected to exercise reasonable skill and care and only 
recommend products that were a reasonable degree of fit with Mrs and Mr O circumstances 
and needs.
I can see that two of the policies were in Mrs Os name only with a total sum assured of just 
over £10,000. The remaining policy was jointly held with Mr O with a sum assured of 
£27,459 which was reduced to £1,338 when premiums stopped being paid.
There is no fact find as one wasnt required at that time, but I can see that Mrs and Mr O had 
a young family when the policies were taken out. Each policy included an investment 
element so there was a degree of risk. But this also meant there was the potential for a 
higher return and from what Ive seen theres nothing to suggest Mrs and Mr O werent 
prepared to accept any risk at all. And in two out of the three policies, I can see the 
surrender value yielded significantly more than was paid in.
Looking at these policies and the total sum assured, I dont think the evidence supports the 
view these policies were mis-sold. As Ive noted Mrs and Mr O had a young family. If either 
of them were to die before their children became independent this would have put a financial 
strain on either party. Whilst there were three policies, in total the sum assured wasnt 
excessive given the family situation. And ultimately, in two out of the three policies, Mrs and/ 
or Mr O received more than they paid in when the policies were surrendered.
All in all, Im satisfied the policies sold either to Mrs O in her own name or jointly with her 
husband, were broadly appropriate for their circumstances at the time of sale so met the 
required standards.
Sale of policy 4
In terms of policy 4 this was sold in 1990 so different rules did apply. At this time, the advice 
had to be best advice based on the knowledge of the clients financial and personal 
circumstances. A fact find was completed for this purpose which Phoenix Life has provided 
to this service.
Policy 4 was an endowment contract with the sum assured payable upon death, permanent 
disability or diagnosis of one of a range of critical illnesses. So differed from the other policies sold to Mrs and Mr O in that it wouldve covered them if they became seriously ill, as 
well as providing a lump sum in the event of death.
The policy was also a savings plan. I can see the fact find says that it was to be used to pay 
towards the cost of buying Mrs and Mr Os council home which they planned to do within a 
year or two (from 1990). So whilst Mrs and Mr O didnt have a mortgage, the policy would 
have helped them achieve their objective to buy a property. At the same time, it offered other 
benefits such as life and critical illness cover. Overall, looking at the benefits of the policy 
along with Mrs and Mr Os objectives at the time, Im satisfied the recommendation met the 
requirements of best advice.
Whilst on the one hand Mrs O says the policy was mis-sold she is also unhappy the policy 
was cancelled due to Mr Os pre-existing health condition. Phoenix Life have said the policy 
was cancelled due to a pre-existing illness Mr O had which was discovered two years after 
the policy started. Under these circumstances, Phoenix Lifes process was to offer a policy 
with higher premiums or reduced level of cover. I note what Mrs O says about Mr Os not 
having any conditions at the time of taking out the policy. But it does seem to have been a 
serious health condition that was still relevant for underwriting purposes, so I dont think 
Phoenix Life have acted unfairly by applying its process that was in place at the time.
Given the circumstances, when Phoenix Life could no longer offer the policy at the standard 
rates, I think its likely that Mrs and Mr O decided to opt for the policy to be cancelled. I can 
see they were refunded the policy premiums in full. So I think Phoenix Life acted fairly in this 
regard and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs O, Im 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and the 
estate of Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman