DRN-3081803
The complaint
Miss M complains about charges made by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as 
MINI Financial Services (BMW) when she returned her hire vehicle. 
  
What happened
Miss M entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with BMW in September 2017. The 
vehicle was returned in April 2021.
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for BMW in April 2021. The report from this 
inspection notes a number of areas of damage that they considered were outside of fair 
wear and tear as follows: 
Left hand rear wheel  Scratched - £33
Right hand front wheel  Scratched - £33
Right hand rear quarter panel - Dented - £119.86
Right hand front door - Dented - £119.86
Bonnet  Dented - £10
Left hand rear quarter panel - Scratched - £106
Rear bumper  Multiple scratches - £106
BMW have charged Miss M a total of £572.72. 
Miss M complained to BMW about these charges. She says the collection agent didnt 
mention all the damage areas at the collection inspection and indicated that shed have to 
pay less than whats now been charged. Miss M says shes made a partial payment for the 
alloy wheels, and dents to the door and right-hand rear quarter panel, but thinks the other 
items are within fair wear and tear, and theres no evidence they didnt happen after the 
vehicle was collected. 
BMW responded to Miss Ms complaint in June 2021. They said the damage was evident 
and outside of fair wear and tear, so they said the charge was payable. 
Unhappy with this, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Miss M. He didnt think the photos showed the damage to the bonnet was outside 
of fair wear and tear, and so asked BMW to remove this charge, he thought the other areas 
of damage were outside of the fair wear and tear standards, as so BMW could fairly charge 
for these. 
BMW accepted our investigators view. 
Miss M didnt agree. She says the collection agent didnt tell her about all of the damage, 
and some of it could have been caused after collection. Miss M is also unhappy she didnt 
get a chance to take the car back and have the repairs done privately, as she thinks this 
would have cost less. She also thinks the repairs werent completed before the car was 
resold, so she shouldnt have to pay for them. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M signed a hire agreement in September 2017. The terms of the agreement set out 
that the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in good repair and condition, 
in line with industry standards of fair wear and tear, beyond which it allows BMW to charge 
for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Miss M was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by BMW are fair and reasonable.  
There are industry standard guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of 
a hired vehicle. So, Ive considered these in deciding what its fair for BMW to charge on 
return of the car.
Wheels
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. 
Ive seen the photos of the left-hand rear and right-hand front wheels. Im satisfied that both 
clearly show scuffs over 50mm. So, Im satisfied that the charge for repair of these items has 
been fairly applied. 
Dents
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken. 
Ive seen photos of the right-hand rear quarter panel and the right-hand front door and Im 
satisfied that both clearly show dents over 15mm. So, Im satisfied that the charge for repair 
of these items has been fairly applied.
Our investigator recommended that the charge for the bonnet should be removed. 
Ive seen the photos of the bonnet, and I cant identify a dent outside of the guidelines, so I 
agree with the investigator that this charge should be removed. 
BMW have accepted our investigators recommendation to remove this charge. 
ScratchesThe BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where 
the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
Ive seen the photos of both the left-hand rear quarter panel, and the rear bumper. Im 
satisfied that they clearly show scratches over 25mm, and some appear to show the primer 
beneath. So, Im satisfied that the charge for repair of these items has been fairly applied. 
Miss M says the damage could have occurred after the car was collected. All the damaged 
areas are noted on the initial inspection report, and the photographs were taken at the time 
of collection. So, Im satisfied that all damage was visible at the time the vehicle was 
collected from her. 
Miss M has noted that she asked for the vehicle back after the full extent of the charges was 
made clear, and she believes she could have had the repairs completed at a lower price if 
shed had them done locally. 
Miss Ms agreement states that charges will apply if the vehicle isnt returned in good repair 
and condition. The agreement points to the damage charge matrix on BMWs website, and 
that matrix lists what is unacceptable damage, and what the charge will be for it. So, Im 
satisfied that Miss M had the opportunity to review and repair the damage prior to handing 
the car back, and the opportunity to review the costs she might have to pay if she didnt have 
the damage repaired. 
Its often the case that cars are sold at auction or re-leased quickly after collection, so I dont 
think its unreasonable for BMW to have refused to return the car to Miss M for her to have 
these repairs done after the end of the agreement. 
Miss M has asked for evidence that BMW have completed the repairs. She doesnt feel she 
should pay for a repair which hasnt been done. The agreement allows BMW to charge for 
damage outside of fair wear and tear to reflect the cost of carrying out the repair, or to reflect 
the reduction in the vehicles value. So, Im satisfied that the charges were fairly applied, 
even if BMW havent completed the repairs.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services to remove the charge for the bonnet from 
the end of contract charges. This leaves a bill of £562.72 for Miss M to pay, minus any 
payment shes already made.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman