DRN-3557888
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt provide enough help to recover 
money hed sent to the wrong beneficiary in error.    
What happened
In or around February 2022, Mr H made an online payment to a third party. Having 
completed the payment, he realised hed sent it to the wrong person. So, he contacted 
Lloyds to ask for the help in recovering the payment.
Lloyds took all the necessary details and made attempts to recovery the funds from the bank 
to which the money had been sent. They then wrote to Mr H a few days later to update him 
on their attempts. 
Lloyds said theyd been trying to recover the payment for him but hadnt been successful. 
They said theyd identified the bank that received the payment and asked them to identify 
the person the account number belonged to. They asked the receiving bank to contact their 
customer to recover the money. The bank receiving the payment told Lloyds the recipient 
account stopped due to account sensitivities.
Lloyds suggested Mr H seek independent legal advice and Mr H may also wish to consult 
with his local Citizens Advice Bureau.
Having sought advice, Mr H wasnt happy with the steps Lloyds had taken to recover his 
money. He thought they couldve done more and made attempts to contact the recipient to 
recover the money. He said hed had a similar experience with another bank whod 
successfully recovered funds promptly. Mr H called Lloyds to complain. 
Lloyds explained that the receiving bank wouldnt provide them with any more information as 
to why the funds couldnt be returned. And as thered been no bank error, there was nothing 
more they could do. They offered Mr H £40 as a gesture of goodwill to reflect the distress 
caused by his situation. Mr H didnt accept Lloyds offer and asked for his complaint to be 
escalated.
Lloyds wrote to Mr H again a few days later. They said that while they do offer a level of 
protection from fraud, they couldnt cover payments hed made himself. Particularly as he 
was asked to confirm the payment details were correct before proceeding. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Lloyds response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Having looked at all the information available, our investigator didnt agree that Lloyds hadnt 
taken sufficient steps to recover Mr Hs money, or that theyd treated him unfairly.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said he hadnt been given any reason 
why the money couldnt be refunded. He also thought Lloyds should contact the receiving 
account holder to recover the money.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Mr Hs strength of feeling. Hes been very clear about why he doesnt 
believe Lloyds having done enough to help him here. And I can appreciate that losing an 
amount of money in such circumstances can prove very distressing. Mr H has explained how 
the situation has impacted him financially, resulting in him having to borrow money to pay 
day to day bills. With this in mind, Ive considered very carefully all that happened, taking into 
account relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
For me to determine whether a payment service provider is at fault when a payment has 
been made to an unintended recipient, I have to consider what happened and whether the 
problem was caused by something Lloyds did or whether they couldve reasonably done 
more to help.
In this case, Mr H accepts that the initial error was his. So, Im satisfied the problem wasnt 
caused by anything Lloyds did wrong. So, I only need to consider whether Lloyds couldve 
reasonably done more to help once they were made aware of the issue.
Under the Payment Services Regulations, banks have to take reasonable steps in a timely 
manner to recover money thats been mistakenly paid to the wrong account. Mr H believes 
that Lloyds shouldve made attempts to contact the recipient direct to recover the money. He 
also says that Lloyds shouldve told him about taking legal action to recover the money.
Mr H promptly told Lloyds about his mistake after making the payment. The Faster 
Payments Scheme published guidance on what banks can do to help if a payment has been 
sent in error. These state that a procedure known as the Credit Payment Recovery Process 
should commence within two days of the bank finding out about the error. 
It appears Lloyds acted immediately and contacted the receiving bank with a request to 
return the funds. But when the receiving bank responded to Lloyds request, they said they 
couldnt return the funds due to account sensitivities. I appreciate that this does sound very 
vague. There could be many reasons for this. Particularly as the recipient bank has their own 
obligations to ensure that any private and personal information relating to their customer 
remains confidential. As this was the response Lloyds received, they passed this on to Mr H. 
And Im satisfied Lloyds did what they could here. They wouldnt have had any more 
information available to them and it appears unlikely the recipient bank would be willing to 
provide more.
Mr H think Lloyds shouldve contacted the receiving account holder. But they couldnt know 
who that was. They wouldnt be able to identify the individual details of the recipient from just 
the bank account information. Only the receiving bank would be able to do that. And data 
protection rules wouldnt allow them to pass that information on to Lloyds or Mr H. That could 
only be obtained with a court order.
When Lloyds wrote to Mr H with the outcome of their attempts to recover the funds, they 
suggested he seek independent legal advice. They also suggested he might wish to contact 
his local Citizens Advice Bureau. I believe that was appropriate and is what I would expect 
them to do. Ive also listened to a recording of Mr Hs original complaint call. Lloyds 
suggested that he could take legal action. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds didnt tell Mr H 
about the options available to him. It isnt Lloyds role to pursue this type of claim through 
legal channels.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed. But it appears Lloyds have met their responsibilities 
under the relevant guidelines and associated timescales here. So, I cant reasonably say 
theyve done anything wrong. But those guidelines dont change or affect Mr Hs legal rights. 
So, while Lloyds attempts to assist havent been successful, Mr H remains free to explore 
other options to recover the funds.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman