DRN-2802474
The complaint
Mr T complains as a director of T, a company, that under Ts Flats Protection policy, Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) negligently certified flood repairs as being satisfactorily 
completed following a claim for flood damage in 2015/16, leading to further flood damage in 
2020.
What happened
In December 2015 T made a claim to RSA following major flood damage. Severe damage 
was caused to the ground floor apartments and common areas. T opted to have its own 
contractors carry out the repairs, and, Mr T says, RSA signed off the works as having 
satisfied all their criteria for flood resilience. In February 2020 the property flooded again, 
due to exposed service pipes not being sealed off, sump pumps not being connected and 
non-return valves being not accessible for servicing as part of the 2016 reparation works. 
Also a flood barrier, protecting the meter cupboard, was invoiced for but not installed. Mr T 
made a claim to RSA saying it had been negligent. He has shown us a Risk Improvement 
Report drawn up by RSA in October 2016 and said the report didnt draw attention to certain 
issues which led to the flooding in 2020.
RSA said that T had no claim  the 2016 report wasnt addressed to the policyholders and 
specifically held no liability to third parties. It contained recommendations to the property 
managers but didnt require particular compliance with it. RSA denied any liability for the 
2020 flooding which came about following the repairs done by Ts appointed contractors.
On referral to this service our investigator said that RSA wasnt liable for the failure of the 
2016 repairs. She noted that in respect of the claim T had opted to use its own contractors 
who invoiced RSA during the progress of the repairs and received payments. She said there 
was no evidence that RSA had certified the repairs as being satisfactory.
Mr T said that the property manager had assured him that RSA would have signed off the 
repairs. He couldnt produce any documentary evidence to that effect but insisted that RSA 
would have such evidence. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A claim was made by T for flood damage in December 2015, to RSA. There was further 
flood damage in 2020, which Mr T says was a result of negligent repairs. I note his offer to 
send in further evidence of the damage including a video showing the water pouring in, but 
for reasons I shall explain, I dont need to see further evidence of the 2020 flooding.
When a claim is made the policyholders can opt either to use the insurers appointed 
contractors or to instruct their own chosen contractors and to receive a cash payment or 
have those contractors invoice the insurer to get paid. In this case the property managers 
opted to use their own contractors. The claim notes set out that it was agreed that strip out 
works would be carried out by those contractors. Then it was agreed that the contractors 
employed on behalf of T would do the repairs. The claim notes indicate that during the 
repairs invoices were sent to RSA and it paid those.
Mr T agrees that the repairs were carried out in this way but says that RSA must have 
satisfied itself that the repairs satisfied its criteria. He has shown us an email from the 
current property manager (not in place when the original repairs were carried out). She says, 
I have spoken with the insurance broker with regards to the report and the insurance 
company signed off all the works therefore are satisfied the building is compliant for their 
criteria.
Normally when a cash settlement is agreed for repairs, the scope the settlement is based on 
is agreed between the insurer and the policyholder and their contractors. The responsibility 
for ensuring the repairs are carried out to the required standard and in line with the scope, 
then becomes the policyholders. The insurer isnt liable for ensuring the repairs are carried 
out, nor for the standard of work. It would be unusual for the insurer to certify that the works 
have been carried out to the required standard. The reference by the property manager to 
RSA having signed off all the works seems to be based on an assumption that it did so, 
rather than that it paid for the works as they progressed. RSA has advised us that it didnt 
carry out any inspection of the works when completed, and Ive seen no evidence that it did. 
I dont think its responsible for the standard of those works or for any failure to complete 
them all.
In respect of the Risk Improvement Report drawn up by RSA in October 2016, this is 
addressed to the then property managers. It refers to several properties including the block 
the subject of this claim. The reports says it is intended to assist you in reducing the 
possibility of a loss (under your insurance policy with the insurer) by advising you of certain 
risks identified at your property. It doesnt require the work to be undertaken, and it makes 
clear that no third party is able to rely on it.
To summarise, I think if the 2020 flood was the result of the 2016 repairs being carried out 
poorly, that wasnt RSAs fault as T had through the property managers instructed its own 
contractors to carry out those repairs. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman