DRN-3258025
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) didnt forward a dividend payment 
she received into her ISA account, after the holdings had already been transferred to a new 
ISA provider. 
Mrs G is being represented in this case, but for ease I will refer to all comments and actions 
as those of Mrs G. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Mrs G feels that Aegon should have done more to forward on a dividend payment of 
approximately £150, received into her account in May 2020, after all the ISA holdings had 
already been transferred to another platform. 
 However, accounts often receive residual amounts and in my experience, it isnt common 
and it probably isnt practical, for each of these amounts to be forwarded on automatically 
upon receipt. Whilst I appreciate that it can be frustrating and time consuming for a customer 
to have to continue to monitor and make further requests for an account they may consider 
closed, I dont think Aegon have done anything wrong here.
  Aegon made Mrs G aware of the amount through written quarterly statements, which I can 
see were sent to her in July and October 2020 and January 2021. I cant hold them 
responsible for Mrs G not becoming aware of the amount until January 2021. Aegon have 
also said that within twelve months they would have completed a sweep of the account and 
contacted Mrs G to forward the amount as she requested. 
 Aegon then asked Mrs G for confirmation as to how the she would like the payment sent. I 
think this is fair as some customers may request for the amount to be reinvested into the ISA 
and some may prefer it to be sent to them as a payment. The amount was then sent within 
the timescale we would expect. I therefore dont think the business has done anything wrong 
here either. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Gs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman