DRN-2826971
The complaint
Miss D complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited unreasonably delayed updating her credit 
file in respect of a debt it owned.
What happened
Miss D tells us that she initially owed a debt to a business Ill call B. She says this debt was 
later assigned to Hoist. In May 2020 Miss D says that she became aware that B had applied 
a refund of £244.24 to her debt. She said that B had advised her that it had notified Hoist of 
the adjustment. Miss D explains that when she contacted Hoist in September 2020 it still 
hadnt applied the refund to her account or updated her credit file.
Hoist told us it had acquired the debt in late 2017. And that it had outsourced the collection 
of the debt to another business. It said that later in 2018 thered been a further assignment of 
the debt to a new legal owner within the Hoist group. And that a business Ill refer to as E 
had been commissioned to transfer the account. But this hadnt been done. Hoist told us it 
had later applied the correct update in October 2020. But due to making enquiries it said it 
had then removed the account altogether. And would start reporting again in January 2021, 
once it had resolved any issues.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that it was 
Hoists responsibility to ensure that it maintained accurate reporting. And he said hed seen 
information that Hoist had been notified of the additional redress in May 2020. And that the 
delay in reporting this had been excessive. He recommended Hoist should pay £75 to Miss 
D to reflect the inconvenience.
Hoist didnt agree with this outcome. It said that it felt responsibility for the error rested with 
E. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make 
the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss D would want to ensure that her credit file didnt show her debt as 
being for a greater amount than was actually due. And that it would be upsetting for her that 
it took so long to update her record.
Its the responsibility of a business which reports information about account conduct to credit 
reference agencies to ensure that the information is fair and accurate and up to date. How a 
business achieves this is matter for the individual business. 
Here its not in dispute that late in 2018 there was a reorganisation within the Hoist group 
that resulted in this debt being transferred to a new legal owner. This required the change to 
be reported to the credit reference agencies. And E was appointed to update details of the 
transfer on customers credit files. Whilst this was seemingly to be done in bulk, for some 
reason Miss Ds account wasnt updated. And so the latest update prior to this complaint 
was shown as being in February 2018.
The information Ive seen shows that Hoist received the refund in May 2020. Although it 
seems it wasnt initially aware of this. And so Miss Ds credit file wasnt updated at the time. 
It wasnt until October 2020, following a call from Miss D, that steps were taken to update the 
record. And even then, it doesnt seem that an accurate update appeared on Miss Ds credit 
file until January 2021.
Im aware theres an issue between Hoist and E as to where the responsibility lies for the 
initial error in the account not being recorded as having been assigned to the new owner 
within the Hoist group. But I dont think that this changes things.
Hoist owns this account and its responsible for the information it reports to credit reference 
agencies. Id expect that where it appoints a different business to manage its obligation that 
it would check from time to time to ensure that this was being done.
So I think the ultimate responsibility for the delay in the updating of Miss Ds account rests 
with Hoist.
Ive considered that the account was in default and that the additional redress did not satisfy 
the entire sum owed. I find its unlikely that the delay wouldve had any significant effect on 
Miss Ds ability to obtain credit had she wished to do so. Whilst the amount owed is a factor, 
the default itself is likely to have significantly impacted her credit file.
Wed normally expect an account to be updated within a reasonable length of time. And 
certainly this wouldnt be anticipated to extend to five months or more. And it appears that it 
was only Miss Ds phone call that prompted the eventual update. 
For the reasons Ive given, Ive reached the same opinion as that of our investigator. Its 
likely that Miss D was caused additional upset by the overall circumstances and the 
subsequent delay in getting her credit record put right. And whilst I find that the impact was 
probably relatively modest, I think £75 is a figure which fairly and reasonably reflects this. 
Accordingly, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Hoist should pay £75 to Miss D for distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hoist 
Finance UK Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman