DRN-1581092
The complaint
Mr S complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) relates to a letter he received 
from them indicating his credit card limit would be increased, and their subsequent decision 
not to increase it.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr S and Barclaycard, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In short terms, Mr S received a letter from Barclaycard telling him they were planning to 
increase his credit limit by £3,000 the following month. Reliant on that it seems Mr S made a 
non-refundable deposit on a holiday which he subsequently didnt take, because the credit 
limit increase wasnt applied to his account.
Barclays said they hadnt done anything wrong as their initial letter told Mr S not to use any 
possible increase until he was notified it had gone through. 
Mr S was unhappy with Barclaycards final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, concluded that Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt 
with the complaint fairly.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Barclaycard acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must 
make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive 
done here. In this case, I dont think that Barclaycard has done anything wrong and Ill 
explain why.
Ive read the letter Mr S received and what is clear is that Barclaycard said they were 
planning on increasing his credit limit, not that it was definitely going to increase it. They 
also said they would be undertaking a few checks before increasing the limit and they would 
let Mr S know if the limit was increased or not. Based on that evidence I think a reasonable view would be that the credit limit was not going to be automatically increased, rather that it 
might be increased, subject to checks.
However, Mr S has seemingly worked on the basis that the increase would be applied to his 
account anyway and has committed himself to an expense before waiting for confirmation 
from Barclaycard. Barclaycard did write to Mr S in June 2019 to advise that the credit limit 
increase wasnt going to be applied, and although I note they said in their final response that 
they didnt do that, it would appear that that is inaccurate. Despite that, Barclaycard did act in 
the way they said they would when they initially wrote to Mr S, so I cant say they have acted 
unfairly.
Our investigator has said that Barclaycard have offered now to pay Mr S £25 for the 
inconvenience he has experienced, and I presume that offer still remains. In terms of a 
redress for this complaint, because I have found Barclaycard havent done anything wrong, 
Im not able to say that Mr S should be compensated. But I can see why Barclaycard would 
want to make an offer such as they did to one of their loyal customers and as a matter of 
goodwill, and I think that is applaudable.
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclaycard 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman