DRN-3804546
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the service they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when 
trying to set up a direct debit to take the fees for their investment portfolios.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr and Mrs O wanted to set up direct debits so the fees for their investment portfolios 
would be taken from a current account instead of their ISAs. Mr O has said that he 
requested a direct debit mandate (DDM) from Barclays over several months.
He complained to Barclays in March 2020. They subsequently sent him a DDM and 
investigated the concerns hed raised. They didnt uphold the complaint as they 
couldnt find any previous requests for a DDM.
The DDM was completed and returned to Barclays in August 2020 and Mr O referred 
the complaint to this service.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. She 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs O didnt want any fees debited from their ISAs, but 
hadnt found any evidence that there was an arrangement to accept a direct debit 
before April 2019. 
She also didnt think there was any evidence that Barclays failed to provide the 
required forms when this was agreed in 2019 or when they were later requested in 
2020. The evidence she had seen showed that when the forms had been sent to Mr 
and Mrs O in April 2019 they werent returned.
She acknowledged that Mr and Mrs O had a lot of contact with Barclays in 2019 
regarding the management of their investment portfolios but didnt think that the 
specific request for a DDM had come up again. And even if it had then based on an 
email they sent Barclays in September 2019, it seemed unlikely that they would have 
returned the form due to their stance of refusing to pay for the service they were 
receiving.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with her opinion and said, in summary, that theyd made 
arrangements in 2017 to have the fees taken by direct debit from their bank account 
and not their ISAs. They referred to the ongoing issues they had with Barclays 
around that time and said they assumed that their requests to stop the fees being 
debited from their ISAs had been addressed. They pointed to several occasions 
where theyd been in touch with Barclays and had specifically requested for the fees 
not to be taken from the ISAs but the requests had been ignored. 
They also thought that Barclays should have set up the direct debit in 2017 and 
therefore needed to rectify the tax implications theyd caused by taking funds of 
around £16,700 from the ISAs.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. Id 
firstly like to clarify that this decision solely concerns whether a direct debit should have been 
set up earlier. The issue of whether Barclays had the authority to debit fees from the ISAs 
has already been addressed in a separate final decision, so I wont be commenting on that 
point.
This complaint is closely linked to Mr and Mrs Os concerns about the way Barclays 
managed their investment portfolios. By way of background, Mr and Mrs O were previously 
under Barclays Portfolio Managed Service (PMS) but were moved to the Dealing and 
Custody service (DCS) - the key difference being that the PMS was a managed service and 
the D&C wasnt. Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with the move and didnt want to pay any fees 
until theyd been moved back to the PMS.
Mr and Mrs O have said that they asked for a direct debit to be set up in 2017, 2018 and on 
twice in 2019. Unfortunately, there is no contemporaneous evidence to back this up other 
than a recording of a call in April 2019. During this call Barclays advised that a DDM was 
being sent out. Mr O asked why this hadnt been done previously when hed asked in 
November 2018 and the representative said that this previously hadnt been an option, but 
had now been agreed as a special request.  
Ive reviewed the extracts of emails Mr and Mrs O have sent in and I cant see that a request 
for a DDM was made. I can see that they asked for the payments not to be taken from the 
ISAs, but there is no mention of setting up a direct debit to take the fees from any other 
accounts. I dont think I can fairly hold Barclays at fault if there was no specific mention of a 
setting up a direct debit. Im not persuaded that a request to not take fees from the ISA 
implied that a direct debit should be set up on another account, especially as Barclays have 
confirmed that this wasnt usual practice and charges would usually be deducted from cash 
within the portfolio.
The first mention of sending a DDM to Mr and Mrs O was in an email from April 2019 which 
said We also discussed the payment of your fees and that you did not want to pay them 
from your ISA. An alternative option is to pay the fees for both yourself and Mrs O*** by 
Direct Debit. I have enclosed a Direct Debit Mandate for you both to complete if this option is 
satisfactory.
However, the DDM was never completed and returned to Barclays. It was only in 2020 that 
Mr and Mrs O completed forms to have direct debits set up. The email from April 2019 said 
We also discussed the payment of your fees and that you did not want to pay them from 
your ISA. An alternative option is to pay the fees for both yourself and Mrs O*** by Direct 
Debit. I have enclosed a Direct Debit Mandate for you both to complete if this option is 
satisfactory. The email also invited Mr O to get in touch if he had any questions about the 
DDM. I dont think its unreasonable to say that if Mr and Mrs O didnt get the enclosed DDM, 
then they could have got back in touch with Barclays and asked them to resend it.
Ive seen an email Mr O sent Barclays in October 2019 where he said I/we refuse to pay for this service until the implications of the illegal actions conducted by members of Barclays 
Wealth have been rectified. and As discussed I have advised that I / we are not prepared to 
pay for any management fees as previously agreed with ******* until our funds have been 
correct and our tax position has been rectified. Ive also seen an email from 2018 where Mr 
O said furthermore I / we are not prepared to pay the fees as the service has once again 
fallen short of what we have been advised to expect.
I think the content of these emails show that Mr O didnt want to pay any fees until his 
complaint was resolved. Therefore, I agree with the investigator and dont think that even if 
forms had been sent to Mr and Mrs O that they would have been returned, and I think this is 
evidenced by the failure to return the forms in 2019 or contact Barclays if they hadnt been 
received.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong or treated 
Mr and Mrs O unfairly. Theres no evidence of any requests for a DDM prior to the request 
that was actioned in 2019 - but given that Mr and Mrs O didnt want to pay any fees until 
their complaint was resolved, I think that even if it had been sent out it wouldnt have been 
returned. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman