DRN-1664568
The complaint
Mr M has complained to us that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in September 1998. He bought the PPI when he was 
making arrangements to take out a mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M says he was told he had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage he wanted.
Our adjudicator didn't think the policy had been mis-sold. Because Mr M disagrees, his 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I've taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I've decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I'll explain why. 
HSBC can't confirm if it made a recommendation that Mr M ought to buy PPI. But even if I 
treat the sale on the basis that HSBC did make a recommendation - so that it had to ensure 
that it was suitable for his circumstances - it doesn't seem to me that the PPI was mis-sold.  
And I've also kept in mind the question of whether the information that HSBC gave Mr M 
about the policy was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed choice 
before taking it out. 
I think it's likely that HSBC made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember this. Mr M 
told us he was made to think he had to take out the cover. I cant know precisely what was 
said to Mr M at the time of the sale, so I am making my finding based on what I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
Its also unfortunate that most of the sale documentation is no longer available, although itss 
not surprising considering these events happened over 21 years ago. So Ive relied on the 
paperwork Ive seen plus what I know about HSBCs sales process for this type of policy at 
the time. Having taken all this into account I think its more likely than not that Mr M would 
have known he had a choice about whether to buy the policy and decided to go ahead and 
buy it. 
Mr M appears to have been eligible for the policy and I haven't seen anything to suggest that 
he would have been disadvantaged by the main exclusions of the policy. Mr M has told us 
he was self-employed. But from what I've seen about the type of policy he had he wouldn't 
be in any worse position to make claim than someone in full-time employment. I've also seen 
that the PPI would pay out for up to 12 months per claim, which would have been available 
in addition to any other sources of income he may have had. Other than that, I cant see that Mr M was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable, costing £20.78 per month for around £350 of cover. I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Id like to assure Mr M and his representative that Ive thought carefully about everything 
theyve told us - including whats been said in response to our adjudicator's finding. But 
unfortunately I havent seen enough to make me think something went wrong in the sale 
process that led to the policy being mis-sold. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman