DRN-4004307
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lendable Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M was approved for one loan in May 2022. It was for £3,000 plus a loan fee and with 
the interest meant that the total to repay was £5,013.60. The loan term was 36 months and 
the repayments were 35 at £139.03 each month plus one final payment of £147.55. 
Miss M successfully paid the first three payments. But after that, she did not pay anything 
further and an amount remains outstanding.
After Miss M had complained to Lendable it issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it 
gave reasons why it did not consider it had done anything wrong. So, Miss M referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and looked at all hed received from both 
parties. He did not think that Lendable had done anything wrong. He did not uphold the 
complaint.
Miss M disagreed and so the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out  our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Lendable completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Miss M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Lendable did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payments he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to approach the loan application from the 
perspective of the likelihood of getting its money back. Lendable had to consider the impact 
of the loan repayments on Miss M. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Lendable has sent us documentation to demonstrate that it obtained information from 
Miss M about her income and expenditure. It verified her income and obtained copies of at 
least two months worth of bank account transactions. It could see  as I have been able to 
observe  that Miss M received Universal Credit (UC) payments of £1,227 in February 2022, 
£1,777 in March 2022 and £1,247 in April 2022. In addition, Miss M received around £140 a 
month child benefit. It is not unreasonable for Lendable to have included the child benefit 
into the income figure.
The bank transactions revealed payments which dovetailed with the credit commitments 
Miss M had as are shown by the credit search Lendable carried out. It sent a copy of that 
May 2022 search to us. 
Miss M had very little outstanding debt over and above a hire purchase (HP) agreement 
which had commenced the year before, and after the previous HP agreement she used to 
have ended. That was a cost of £227 a month and Ive recognised in those bank 
transactions that another person appeared to pay into her account £227 on (or near) the 
same date that HP direct debit payment went out. I also note that at least once Miss M pays 
that £227 back to the other person. The earlier HP cost was around £103 a month whereas 
the new HP cost had increased to £227 a month. 
So, like our adjudicator, I have factored the HP cost in as an expense paid for by Miss M but 
I can see that she seemed to have shared that cost with another person. From Miss Ms credit search results, I note that she had a defaulted account for a mail order  
company but it was for a modest sum of £92 and was in August 2018. And so, I consider 
that to have been far enough away in time from when Miss M approached this loan company 
to have been a concern to Lendable. Any other adverse information was historic.
Miss M had a couple of credit cards and a couple of other mail order accounts all with 
modest balances and therefore very modest minimum repayments to make. 
I have added up what she was required to pay each month and it was around £260.00. 
Other expenditure each month using the bank transaction statements Lendable obtained 
leads me to think it was around £456. 
So, I think Miss Ms total expenditure was around £716 each month. So, I think that 
Lendable was reasonable to proceed on the basis that Miss M was able to afford the £139 a 
month.
The core of Miss Ms submissions to us after our adjudicator had sent to her his view of the 
complaint, was that the new council tax bill took her unawares. Miss M has said:
at the time the loan was issued, a new council tax year was about to start and I 
didn't know what I should be paying until April which was £176 pcm so although I 
didn't pay council tax in March it was due to restart again.
But Miss M has not sent to us any evidence or details of her council tax bill. And as I know 
that bills are issued earlier than the new start date of 1 April each year I think its likely 
Miss M would have known the new figures. 
Plus, the bank transaction lists Lendable saw before it approved the loan does include a 
payment to Miss Ms council for £158 (9 May 2022) which appears to have been for council 
tax. So, I think its very likely Lendable would have considered that to have been a regular 
outgoing to the council  likely council tax. 
And another point Miss M makes is that she has sent us a list of outgoings in a recent email. 
One of those outgoings was £895 for rent. However, on her bank transactions the only 
reference I have seen for rent and food were several credits for sums ranging from £45 to 
£80. And I have not seen any payments of rent for £895. 
Reviewing the expenditure list Miss M has sent us in her email Miss M uses the phrases we 
and refers to her husbands workplace loan. The loan being paid by her husband is not 
something Id factor in for a complaint where the loan was taken solely by Miss M. 
And if Miss M is telling us that the total list of expenditure was for them as a household, then 
Ive three points about that:
- the first is that this was not a joint loan application and theres no indication that 
Lendable took into account her husbands income and so neither do I;
- and in any event Miss M has not sent us details of her husbands income; and 
- if the expenditure listed by Miss M was for the household, Ive noted that there was 
reference to her husbands work, then it seems her husband was bringing in an 
income as well (although Miss M has not confirmed this) and so Id consider that 
Miss Ms submissions persuade me that the £139 a month for the Lendable loan was 
more affordable, not less. 
Miss M has included in her list of expenditure in her recent email, payments to friends and 
family being loan repayments. Lendable would not likely be aware of, or be expected to 
know about, the loans from friends or family and Ive seen no evidence that Miss M told 
Lendable about those. 
And the reason all these points are significant is that I have decided Lendable carried out 
proportionate checks, including obtaining a credit report and reviewing bank transactions, 
and so I do not think it could have done more. So, as the bank account transactions do not show some of the expenditure that Miss M 
maintains she was committed to in May 2022 then I cant reasonably expect Lendable to 
have known.
And if I am wrong on that entry about the payment to the council of £158  and the payment 
was not for council tax  then still my point remains the same that Lendable had reviewed 
her bank transactions and would have seen that £158 a month outgoing as part of its 
assessment.  
I have noted that there were a couple of returned direct debits in May 2022 but having 
thought about it I do not consider that likely to have made such a difference to the overall 
picture that Lendable was likely to have refused the loan application. 
Lendable makes a valid point about the 14 day loan withdrawal or cancellation terms. Where 
Miss M has said that after the loan was issued she realised she was going to find it difficult 
to pay  on her figures  then she had the option to cancel the loan within 14 days. But 
Miss M did not exercise that option. 
Miss M has also made a point about the loan being approved in 20 minutes. I cant really 
comment on the Lendable internal information technology systems or its processing times. 
I understand the loan has an outstanding balance and Lendable has said that it has asked 
her for an income and expenditure form to be completed so that Lendable can assist Miss M 
going forward. And so, I do recommend that the details Miss M has sent to us about her 
income and expenditure she forwards to Lendable. 
I remind Lendable of the CONC requirement to approach Miss M about the debt fairly and 
offer forbearance where necessary.
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman