The complaint
Miss H believes Vanquis Bank Limited lent to her irresponsibly and shouldn't have accepted 
her credit card application. She also thinks it shouldn't have later increased her credit limit 
and shouldn't charge interest on the credit card account while she was repaying it.
What happened
Miss H applied for the credit card account in 2016. She told Vanquis she was in full-time 
employment earning £21,000 a year. At the time of her application her credit file showed that 
she had a history of defaults but that it had been 40 months since her last default. She was 
initially given a credit limit of £500.
When she first got her card she used it regularly and made a number of large payments 
which reduced the balance. Vanquis considered that given her account management it was 
reasonable to offer to increase her credit limit. Vanquis has told this service that it carried out 
another check before making the offer and found that Miss H had increased her borrowings 
to over £6,000 and she was maintaining payments on this debt. It felt that it had evidence 
that Miss H was able to manage higher levels of debt from internal and external sources. It 
gave Miss H 30 days to decline the offer of an increase to her credit limit. Miss H didn't let 
Vanquis know that she didn't want this to happen so the credit limit increased.
Miss H continued to spend on her card and found herself in financial difficulty. After she let 
Vanquis know about her problems it agreed a debt management plan and froze the interest 
on her account.
The investigator didn't recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied Vanquis 
undertook the appropriate checks at the time of Miss H's application to come to its decision 
to offer her a credit card account with a limit of £500. He was further satisfied Vanquis 
undertook further appropriate checks when it offered to increase the credit limit which were 
proportionate to the level of the increase. He felt the four payments Miss H made by debit 
card of £480, £460.30, £868.00 and £630.66 on 10 December 2016, 2 March 2017, 1 July 
2017 and 18 September 2017 demonstrated that she was able to make larger payments to 
her account and also demonstrated the affordability of the higher credit limit. He felt that 
when Vanquis was notified of Miss H's financial difficulties it demonstrated it was willing to 
help when it was made aware she was in financial difficulties.
Miss H disagrees. She says that every time she paid off the credit card she was either 
signing up to another credit card to pay it off or taking out a loan. She says she was in a debt 
management programme with another company from 2016.
DRN-1557418 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Miss H has experienced financial difficulties. 
Based on what I've seen I don't think that Vanquis was irresponsible when it offered her a 
credit card account. It carried out checks which showed that, whilst she had a history of 
defaults, she had been 'default-free' for 40 months. It offered her a relatively low credit limit 
of £500 and its records show that Miss H told it she was in full time employment earning 
£21,000 each year.
After taking out the credit card, judging by the transaction history on the account, Miss H 
appeared to be managing the debt quite well. I think it was reasonable for Vanquis to 
consider increasing her credit limit. Vanquis has told this service it didn't just rely on its own 
dealings with Miss H to make this decision it also looked at her wider credit history. It did see 
that her borrowings had gone up by more than £5,000 in five months. It saw this as a sign 
she was able to manage her debt. It also saw that Miss H hadn't missed any payments for 
44 months.
Miss H has told this service that every time she paid off the credit card she was either 
signing up to another credit card to pay it or taking out a loan. She has also told us that she 
is only on carer's allowance of £66.15 a week; this is a lot less than the income she enjoyed 
at the time of her application when she was in full-time employment and earning £21,000.
I was concerned to see the level of debt Miss H took on so quickly over the period following 
her opening her credit card account. Given what we now know it looks like Miss H struggled 
with her borrowing very early in the account history. But to decide whether Vanquis did 
anything wrong I need to look at what it knew when it offered to increase the limit and 
whether it should have made further enquiries. I think Miss H's management of the account 
made it reasonable for Vanquis to consider offering her an increase in her credit limit. I think 
it was reasonable for it to carry out further checks. When those checks showed increased 
borrowing I think it was reasonable for Vanquis to consider this. It thought this showed that 
Miss H was able to manage higher levels of debt. We now know this turned out not to be 
true. But I don't think Vanquis was wrong to conclude this.
I think, if Miss H was relying on borrowing to enable her to make payments or if her 
employment circumstances had changed then it would have been beneficial to her to let 
Vanquis know when it offered to increase her credit limit. Unfortunately she didn't share this 
information with Vanquis.
There is no evidence that Vanquis knew that Miss H had entered into a debt management 
plan as Miss H has said in 2016. Once Vanquis was notified of her financial difficultes it 
agreed a debt management plan and stopped interest and charges. I think this was a 
positive and sympathetic response to her difficulties. I won't be asking it to do anything more.
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman