DRN-3636744
The complaint
Mrs C complains about administrative errors made by Succession Wealth Management Ltd 
(SWM).
What happened
Mrs C said SWM had made administrative errors on documentation regarding her pension. 
This included spelling and grammatical errors and incorrectly completed forms regarding 
changes in her income. She also said there had been a delay in her annual review which 
took place late. Given the repeated nature of the errors Mrs C had lost confidence in SWMs 
ability to manage and administer her pension. She didnt think they had earned their 1% fee 
and she wanted a full refund of all charges for the management of her pension and its 
investments as the service had been poor.
SWM said that Mrs C was not complaining about its advice just about administrative errors. 
In particular a double printed letter with text on the reverse of the letterhead, a missing field 
in her valuation spreadsheet and spelling error. The forms to increase her regular pension 
were completed incorrectly. She also listed other inaccuracies. It agreed that the documents 
it sent should not have contained these errors. It upheld her complaint. 
It felt the impact was moderate as it caused some inconvenience but she wasnt put to any 
trouble. It felt 1% of fees was excessive as this would be just under £10,000.The delay in the 
annual review was to allow both Mrs C and her husband to meet with the adviser at the 
same time. Also COVID lockdowns delayed this but a video conference was held in 
February 2021. It had apologised for the errors. It later agreed it would increase the 
compensation from £100 to £200
The investigator said the errors had not caused any financial loss but upset and loss of 
confidence. He said that the £100 offered by SWM wasnt enough but felt £200 would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs C didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SWM has accepted that it has made errors. I can therefore consider an award for financial 
loss and distress and inconvenience. I have not seen any evidence that there has been any 
financial loss and the parties seem to accept this. I have therefore considered an award for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the error.
Such an award is to reflect the impact on Mrs C not to punish SWM. We are all 
inconvenienced at times in our day to day lives and it is not unusual to experience a certain 
level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with a financial business. I need to 
consider whether the impact of the errors was more than someone would expect to 
experience in everyday life. 
I note that there have been a variety of errors. Including wrong dates, delay in an annual 
review, spelling errors and errors in a form regarding changes to income. While in isolation 
some may seem minor it is clear that the repeated and continuing nature of the errors has, 
as Mrs C says, caused her to lose confidence in SWM. She was particularly concerned by 
the error in the income form which she feared would have progressed incorrectly had she 
not spotted the error. I think it is reasonable that the repeated nature of these issues eroded 
her confidence. But I note she had not terminated her relationship with SWM due to these 
errors.  I think the recurring nature of the errors over a period of months added to the impact. 
I am of the view that the upset caused was more than one would expect from day to day life. 
In the light of the impact on Mrs C, the recurrent nature of the errors and the time over which 
they occurred I think an award of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note that Mrs C does not complain about the advice she has received nor whether it was 
suitable for her. So I dont think it would appropriate to refund the management charges she 
has paid to SWM. I say that because I have reviewed the errors and the impact on Mrs C 
and concluded that the award of £200 is fair and reasonable. I do not think that a higher 
award nor one based on the charges applied would be appropriate for the reasons I have 
given.
Putting things right
I think SWM, should pay Mrs C a total £200 for distress and inconvenience. For the 
avoidance of doubt this includes the £100 if it has already paid that amount in respect of this 
complaint. It need only pay such further amount as is required to increase the total amount 
to £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Succession Wealth Management Ltd should within 30 days of this service 
informing it that Mrs C has accepted my decision, pay Mrs C a total £200 for distress and 
inconvenience. For the avoidance of doubt this includes the £100 if it has already paid it, and 
it need only pay such further amount as is required to increase the amount to £200
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman