DRN-3973028
The complaint
Mr A  on behalf of his business (A) - complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund 
payments he says he did not authorise from his business account.
What happened
Mr A holds a business account with Barclays for his business. He says that he lost his debit 
card on 28 October 2021, and over the next few days a series of payments were made using 
his card which he says he did not authorise.
Mr A says he became aware of these payments on 31 October 2021, and so he flagged 
them with Barclays. Barclays reviewed the disputed payments, but did not agree that there 
was evidence to show they had not been authorised, so it declined to refund them to Mr A. 
At this stage Barclays also decided that it no longer wished to offer Mr A a business account 
for A, and so it gave him 62 days notice that it would be closing the account.
Mr A maintains that he did not make these payments, he says that his card was stolen and 
used without his permission.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. But they ultimately did not feel there was 
enough evidence to show that the payments had not been authorised by Mr A, so they did 
not recommend that Barclays refund these payments to As account. They also felt Barclays 
had acted reasonably in how it closed the account
Mr A remained unhappy, so this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator set out, and for the 
same reasons.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking Mr 
A is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments.
So, the key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Mr A did 
authorise the disputed payments or otherwise allow them to be made.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A consented to the 
payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr A 
authorised the transactions. I say this because the first disputed payments were on 29 
October 2021, Barclays records show that Mr A logged into his online banking after these 
disputed payments, and made transfers from his business account. But he did not flag these 
payments to Barclays, even though they would have been visible when he logged into his 
online banking and made the transfers.
And no plausible explanation has been given regarding how a third party could have learned 
the PIN for Mr As card. Mr A has said it was not written down and there does not seem to be 
a plausible point where it could have been seen by a third party prior to the card being lost. 
Mr A has said his PIN was his birthdate, but Barclays has confirmed that was not the case, 
the PIN was a randomly generated number created when the account was first opened and 
had not been changed. So there does not seem to be any plausible way that the PIN could 
have been guessed. There were also no incorrect PIN attempts, so it is clear that whoever 
used the card did know the PIN.
I appreciate that evidence suggests Mr A may not have been in the same location as the 
payments were made from at the time, but Im nonetheless satisfied from the evidence Ive 
seen that, on balance, its more likely that Mr A authorised the disputed payments or 
otherwise allowed them to be made. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for 
them, and that I dont consider it could have taken any action to stop them or should have 
taken steps to recover the funds.
Regarding the closure of As account, I can see that Barclays gave Mr A 62 days notice of 
its intention to close the account, in line with the terms and conditions. Businesses are 
entitled to close accounts, and do not need to give a reason for that decision, as long as they 
give appropriate notice. And Im satisfied Barclays did give appropriate notice here, so Im 
satisfied it didnt act unfairly in closing As account. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mr A, but I hope he will understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman