DRN-2784801
The complaint
Mrs W and Miss W complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) declined their application 
to change their interest-only mortgage to a repayment mortgage for an additional term of    
25 years. Mrs W says that the YBS adviser she spoke to promised her that the application 
would be approved.
What happened
Mrs W and Miss W entered into an interest-only mortgage with YBS in August 2007. The 
mortgage loan amount was £96,500 and the term was eleven years. The mortgage ended in 
August 2018, but Mrs W and Miss W were unable to repay the balance. 
Mrs W and Miss W were unable to secure a re-mortgage elsewhere, and in January 2020, 
Mrs W arranged to speak to a YBS adviser to explore what re-mortgage options YBS might 
be able to offer them.
Mrs W explained that they didnt want to sell the property, and following an initial 
assessment of Mrs W and Miss Ws financial circumstances, the adviser recommend a 
repayment mortgage for a term of 25 years.
After completing further checks, YBS declined the application. It was concerned that         
Mrs W and Miss W wouldnt be able to afford the monthly repayments. Further, it found that 
Miss W had more adverse credit information recorded in her name than had been declared 
in the application. This included three outstanding County Court Judgements (CCJs). 
Mrs W complained to YBS about the application being declined and said the adviser had 
promised her that it would be approved.
YBS didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it didnt feel it had acted unfairly in declining 
the application. Further, after listening to the telephone conversations that took place 
between Mrs W and its adviser, it was satisfied that the adviser hadnt promised Mrs W the 
application would be successful.
Unhappy with YBSs response, Mrs W and Miss W referred their complaint to our service. 
YBS had started legal action to seek possession of the property, but it agreed to put this on 
hold whilst our service investigated the complaint.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
he didnt feel YBS had unfairly declined the application for the re-mortgage and he wasnt 
persuaded the adviser had given any promise that the application would be successful.
Mrs W asked for the complaint to be reviewed, so it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did the adviser promise the application would be successful? 
Ive listened very carefully to both of the telephone conversations that took place between 
Mrs W and the YBS adviser on 3 January 2020, and whilst the tone of the conversation 
sounded positive at times, at no point did I hear the adviser offer any promise or assurance 
that the application would be successful.
At the start of the first conversation, the adviser explained that hed be looking to see if the 
mortgage could be extended, but he went on to say that he couldnt guarantee this. He also 
referred to the application needing to be considered by an underwriter several times 
throughout the call and also that credit checks would be required.
Further, when the adviser called Mrs W back later that day, he explained that whilst the 
underwriter was happy to agree to him making a recommendation, it was subject to their 
review of the application and arrears on the account being paid off. During the close of the 
conversation, the adviser re-iterated that an underwriter would need to review the 
application.
Considering everything that was discussed during these conversations, Im not persuaded 
the adviser provided any promise that the application would be successful. He also made it 
clear that the application would be subject to further checks and review. 
Did YBS act fairly and reasonably by declining the application?
In August 2007, YBS agreed to lend to Mrs W and Miss W on the basis that they would 
repay the full amount borrowed at the end of the mortgage term. So, as a starting point, I 
think that its reasonable that YBS expects the full balance of the mortgage to be repaid now 
that the term of the mortgage has ended.
YBS has provided information to show that having reviewed Mrs W and Miss Ws financial 
circumstances, including their income and expenditure, it didnt think the monthly 
repayments required for the repayment mortgage were affordable for them. I understand that 
there has been a history of late payments being made and arrears on their current mortgage 
account, and YBS felt the increased repayments required would be too much of a stretch for 
them.
The rules of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB) say that a business can overlook any 
concerns it has about affordability where it thinks it would otherwise be in the customers best 
interests to allow the application.
YBS says it didnt think agreeing to the re-mortgage was in Mrs W and Miss W best 
interests. It felt there was enough equity in their property for them to purchase another 
property, and it had found two-bedroom properties for sale in the area which might be 
suitable for them. It considered this to be a better option than committing Mrs W to making 
monthly payments towards the mortgage until she was around 96 years old, especially when 
it didnt think Mrs W and Miss W could afford to do this. And if there should sadly come a 
time when Miss W has to take the mortgage over on her own before the end of the term, 
without Mrs Ws income, it would be even less affordable.
Ive taken YBSs comments into account. Ive also considered that Mrs W and Miss W felt it 
would be in their best interests for the application to be approved, because they didnt want 
to leave the property.I was very sorry to learn of the health difficulties Mrs W and her family have experienced. I 
also understand that Mrs W is a carer for her vulnerable adult son, who she says would find 
her leaving the property very difficult. Shes explained that is because he spends a 
considerable amount of time with her at the property during the day.
I can see that YBS has taken Mrs Ws concerns into account, but it still didnt think it would 
be in her and Miss Ws best interests to approve the mortgage. I understand that              
Mrs Ws son doesnt live at the property and he has his own residence. Given this, I dont 
think YBS has acted unreasonably.
I also understand that Mrs W has been receiving Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI) to help 
fund the monthly repayments for their current mortgage. This is a loan that will need to be 
repaid with interest when the property is sold. So if the re-mortgage was approved, and     
Mrs W continued to rely on this to help fund the repayments, it would continue to erode 
equity in the property.
YBS has also told us that the application was declined because it found Miss W had more 
adverse credit information recorded in her name than had been declared in the application. 
This included three outstanding CCJs, five defaulted credit cards and four defaults regarding 
communication suppliers. Mrs W also explained to the adviser that Miss W had previously 
struggled to manage her spending and finances.
Lenders are required to act responsibly when deciding whether they should lend, and I dont 
think YBS has acted unreasonably by taking Miss Ws credit history into account when 
making its decision to decline the application. And I agree it wouldnt be in 
Mrs Ws and Miss Ws best interests to commit them to a further 25-year term when theres 
clear evidence that its unlikely to be affordable over the term.
Considering everything, Im not persuaded that YBS has treated Mrs W and Miss W unfairly 
by deciding not to approve their re-mortgage application. I know that my decision will be very 
disappointing for Mrs W and Miss W. Im sorry that I couldnt write to them with better news, 
but I hope that my review of their complaint will help them move forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman