DRN-3316944
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs V complain that a cheque written from their account with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
wasnt paid and they didnt receive the service they should have when dealing with this. 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs V issued a cheque from their HSBC account, but it wasnt paid. Mr C asked 
about this and was told that there was a marker on the account due to inactivity and they 
would have to visit a HSBC branch with identification documents to get this removed and 
then a new cheque would need to be presented as the initial cheque was invalid due to the 
passage of time. Mr C explained that they couldnt visit a UK branch as they werent in the 
UK and couldnt travel due to lockdown and so he presented a new cheque at his local 
branch with identification documents enclosed. Mr C says he also emailed this information to 
HSBC however the cheque still wasnt paid. Mr C says they are being treated unfairly by 
having the payment refused. 
HSBC issued a final response letter in May 2021 saying that the initial cheque had been 
returned due to fraud checks. It said it had tried to contact Mr C but couldnt reach him. It 
said that there was a marker on the account due to inactivity and that Mr C would need to 
visit a HSBC branch with photographic identification. As Mr C responded to the letter saying 
he wasnt able to visit a UK branch, HSBC said that he could visit a branch locally.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that HSBC had explained there were 
issues with the address verification. She didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong. 
Mr C and Mrs V didnt agree with our investigators view. Mr C said the required documents 
had been provided but these hadnt been accepted. Since the view was issued Mr C and 
Mrs V have completed an account closure form and provided further copies of identification 
documents to HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the issue with the cheque has caused Mr C and Mrs V frustration and 
inconvenience. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
HSBC had done something wrong.
The initial cheque was written but not paid which HSBC has explained as due to fraud 
checks. It says that it tried to contact Mr C but wasnt able to reach him. I can understand 
that this was an inconvenience for Mr C and Mrs V and I note the comments about not being 
contacted. However, as the cheque was flagged for fraud checks I do not find I can say 
HSBC acted unfairly by not processing the cheque. 
HSBC explained in its final response letter that the account had a marker on it due to 
inactivity. I have looked at the statements provided and can see that there hadnt been any 
activity from January 2016 to the date of the letter therefore I do not find it unreasonable that 
the account was considered inactive and that steps would then need to be taken to remove 
the inactivity marker.
Mr C was told that he would need to visit a branch with identification documents to get the 
marker removed. As this was HSBCs process for the removal of the marker I do not find I 
can say it was unfair to ask this. Mr C and Mrs V were unable to visit a UK branch given they 
were overseas and so I find it reasonable that an alternative of visiting a local branch was 
provided.
Mr C wrote a second cheque and sent some identification documents electronically to 
HSBC. He also said he could have a video call if that helped to get the marker removed. I 
can see that Mr C was trying to work with HSBC to get the marker removed, however I also 
accept that as the marker was still in place at this time the cheque wouldnt be processed. 
Having gone through the documents provided and the comments about these, I can see that 
HSBC did provide Mr C with information about the documents needed. While the 
identification documents for Mr C and Mrs V were accepted there was an issue with the 
address verification. This appears to be due to the address held by HSBC being a UK 
address whereas Mr C and Mrs V were living overseas at that time and hadnt updated the 
address on HSBCs system. It was Mr C and Mrs Vs responsibility to update their address 
with HSBC. So, while Mr C had sent certified documents to show the address the issues with 
the address verification meant the process wasnt completed.
Mr C has now been told what documents are needed and I understand Mr C and Mrs V have 
completed an account closure form and sent documents to support this. 
I can see this has been a frustrating process and that Mr C has tried several routes to try to 
resolve the issue. I think that he could have been provided more support as it was clear he 
was trying to provide the required information, but this wasnt resulting in a successful 
verification. But while I think he could have benefitted from more support; I do not find I can 
say that HSBC was wrong or treated Mr C and Mrs V unfairly by applying it usual procedures 
in the verification process. Because of this I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman