DRN-3045386
The complaint
 Mr M complains about Revolut Ltds decision to suspend, and subsequently deactivate his
account. He says this caused him severe financial loss as he was without his money for
around 18 months.
What happened
 Mr M held an account with Revolut. In January 2020, Revolut suspended Mr Ms account
while they carried out a review. In May 2020, Revolut finalised their review and decided to
end their banking relationship with Mr M. They returned the money left in Mr Ms account
back to the original source.
Mr Ms external account, where the money was returned to, had closed. So the third-party
bank sent the money back to Revolut on 23 May 2020. Due to internal issues, Revolut
wasnt aware that Mr Ms money had been returned to them. After further investigation,
Revolut located Mr Ms money on 24 April 2021 and it was returned to Mr M on 4 June 2021.
Mr M says the time he went without his money caused him severe financial loss. Mr M liked
to invest his money, but couldnt while he didnt have access to it, and estimated his loss at
around 600,000 USD.
The investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and suggested Revolut pay 8% simple interest
on Mr Ms money from 23 May 2020  when it was returned to Revolut from the third-party
bank, to 4 June 2021  when Revolut returned it to Mr M. While Revolut agreed to pay this,
Mr M wanted the interest paid from January 2020 when his account was blocked and further
compensation to recognise his loss.
The investigator sent her view and said that she was satisfied Revolut were entitled to
review Mr Ms account, so she didnt think it was reasonable for them to pay the 8% from
January 2020. The investigator was also satisfied that Revoluts actions were fair in closing
Mr Ms account and returning the money to source. But she thought Revolut could have
been more proactive in locating Mr Ms money  so she thought paying 8% interest from the
date the money was sent back to Revolut to the date they paid it to Mr M was fair.
Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The account block and closure
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts 
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened,
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they
reviewed Mr Ms account in January 2020. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
However, Ive recognised the time the review took  from 30 January 2020 to 15 May 2020
when they decided to end the relationship with Mr M. While we wouldnt usually give a
certain timeframe that a review should be completed in, Id expect the review to take place in
a timely manner without any undue delays. I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me
that Revolut were proactive in their review. And therefore, I think Revolut could have carried
out the review sooner. Because of that, I think they should pay Mr M £250 compensation to
recognise this delay.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same
as if Mr M decided to stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. Revolut
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of
the account. Revolut have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ms account.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Revolut exercised
their right to no longer offer Mr M banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently on this
part.
Mr Ms money
When Revolut decided to close Mr Ms account, they decided to return the money left in the
account to source. I think it would have been more helpful if Revolut asked Mr M for proof of
entitlement to these funds as part of their review. I say that because if theyd investigated Mr
Ms entitlement, they could have given the money back to him directly straight away rather
than returning it to source. However, I recognise the original source was one of Mr Ms
accounts, so I dont think this makes much difference overall.
When Revolut returned the money to Mr Ms external account, it bounced back to Revolut a
few days later  on 23 May 2020. Mr Ms external account had closed and therefore the
third-party bank couldnt accept the money. Due to internal errors, Revolut didnt locate Mr
Ms money in their accounts until 24 April 2021. And they returned it to Mr Ms account on 4
June 2021.
I dont think its reasonable that Mr M was without his money for this period of time 
especially as Revolut had access to the money from 23 May 2020. So, like our investigator, I
think 8% simple interest should be paid on this amount. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms
comments in relation to paying the 8% simple interest from January 2020. Ive explained
above why I think Revolut were fair to suspend and review Mr Ms account  and while I 
recognise there were delays with that, I think the compensation amount Ive suggested
covers that. Therefore, I think the appropriate date for Revolut to pay the interest from is
when they had access to the money again  which was 23 May 2020, and they should pay
this up until the date they gave the money back to Mr M  which was 4 June 2021.
While I consider the interest payment recognises the time Mr M was without his funds, Ive
thought about the impact this had on Mr M. Mr M didnt have access to his money for around
18 months. I dont doubt this would have been a really worrying and difficult time for him. I
note Mr M says he wanted the money to invest  so I dont consider it had an impact on his
basic day to day living, but I still recognise the distress caused.
Its not appropriate for me to ask Revolut to pay Mr M for his potential losses. I recognise Mr
M has supplied documentation to show his potential losses, but these payments would have
been investments  which pose a risk. And therefore, there isnt any guarantee that Mr M
would have made the money he is claiming. But I do think the time Mr M went without his
money would have had a significant impact on him. So, I think £500 compensation would be
appropriate to recognise this distress and inconvenience.So, overall I thought Revoluts actions in closing Mr Ms account was fair, but I thought theyd 
caused unnecessary delays, And so I thought 8% simple interest should be added to the 
amount they transferred to Mr M, and I thought they should pay Mr M £750 compensation.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and didnt agree. He said during the time he had 
his account he lost his job. And he thought it was easy to calculate what money he could 
have potentially had. Mr M said he wasnt happy with the 8% simple interest and thought 
Revolut should be held accountable for the pain and suffering they had caused.
Revolut responded and accepted my suggestions to settle the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I still think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, and I consider the 
settlement suggested in my provisional decision is fair. Ive explained further below.
Mr M has explained that he lost his job  no doubt this would have caused him severe 
distress. But to uphold his complaint on this point, Id need to be satisfied that it was the fault 
of Revolut as to why he lost his job. Ive seen no reasonable explanation to convince me that 
is the reason why and therefore I cant fairly hold Revolut responsible.
Mr M also thinks it is easy to calculate what money he could have had. But I explained in my 
provisional decision why it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask Revolut to pay Mr Ms 
potential losses. I recognise how strongly Mr M feels about this, but Mr M invested his 
money  and with any investment comes great risk. Therefore, I cant guarantee what Mr M 
would have invested in or when, and what the result of that investment would have been. So 
I wont be asking Revolut to pay Mr M the amount he thinks he could have had.
Mr M doesnt think 8% simple interest is enough to recognise his losses. But I consider this 
to be an appropriate amount to reflect the cost of Mr M being deprived of his money for the 
period of time which he was. This amount also reflects the current statutory interest rate on 
judgment debts and therefore, I consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances.
Putting things right
 To put things right and to recognise the time Mr M was without his money, Revolut should 
pay 8% simple interest on the amount they transferred to Mr M. I also consider £750 
compensation to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience this overall situation 
caused.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Revolut Ltd should do the following to 
put things right:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the money they transferred to Mr M. They
should calculate this from the date they reasonably could have transferred the money
 23 March 2020  to the date they did pay it  4 June 2021.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut Ltd to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. Revolut should give Mr M a certificate showing how much 
is taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Pay Mr M a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman