DRN-3407679
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding how they responded to his request for a long-term balance 
repayment plan on his account, including that Barclays ultimately defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr B had a credit account with Barclays on which he had fallen into arrears. Mr B contacted 
Barclays and explained that hed been financially affected by the impact of Covid-19 and 
requested a three-month payment holiday. Barclays explained that Mr B wasnt eligible to 
receive such a payment holiday, but they agreed to put a temporary freeze on his account 
and asked Mr B to complete an income and expenditure assessment so that they could 
potentially offer Mr B continuing financial assistance in some form.
Over the next several months, Mr B contacted Barclays on several occasions and asked 
Barclays to provide a monthly payment amount which would enable him to repay the 
account balance over several years. In response, Barclays reiterated to Mr B that they 
required an income and expenditure assessment to be undertaken before they could commit 
to any potential financial assistance or long-term repayment plan.
Mr B didnt provide his income and expenditure assessment, and this eventually led to 
Barclays sending a notice of default to Mr B and then later defaulting his account. Mr B 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Bs complaint, but they felt that they had managed Mr Bs account 
fairly, including the defaulting of Mr Bs account, and so they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
However, Barclays did make an offer to pay Mr B £250 compensation for not issuing a final 
response to his complaint in a timely manner.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mr B in how theyd managed his account, and so they also didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance 
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were 
experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of 
financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included 
that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays 
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the FCA 
explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had been able to 
meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that time, but who were at 
risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their credit files solely as a 
result of the impact of Covid-19.
The FCA also explained that consumers who didnt meet the eligibility criteria for these 
three-month payment holidays  such as those who were already in arrears on their account, 
and who had therefore already incurred adverse reporting on their credit files  should still 
be offered financial assistance by credit providers if they requested it, but that this 
assistance should be tailored to the individual circumstances of those consumers and 
shouldnt benefit from the suspension of credit file reporting that the prescribed three-month 
payment holidays benefited from.
In this instance, when Mr B first informed Barclays that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty, and then later requested a three-month payment holiday on his account, its 
notable that Mr B was already in arrears on his account such that Im satisfied that he wasnt 
an eligible consumer in regard to the FCA prescribed three-month payment holidays, as 
described above.
However, as also explained above, it would be expected that Barclays would have worked 
with Mr B to explore whether other forms of financial assistance might have been 
appropriate for Mr B at that time.
I think that Barclays did that here, and I note that they advised Mr B on multiple occasions 
that they required him to complete an income and expenditure assessment so that Barclays 
could better understand Mr Bs financial position and assess what forms of financial 
assistance they might have been willing to offer to him.
It seems apparent from the information available to me that Mr B didnt want to provide this 
information, but instead wanted Barclays to provide him with a monthly repayment amount 
that would enable him to repay the balance outstanding on the account over a period of 
several years.
But Barclays were under no obligation to accept such a long-term repayment proposal from 
Mr B, and it wouldnt be expected that they consider such a request without first conducting 
an assessment of Mr Bs income and expenditure to assess whether Mr Bs proposal was 
one they were willing to agree to.
Additionally, given that the terms of the credit included that minimum monthly payments  
calculated as a percentage of the total outstanding balance  must be paid to the account in 
order to maintain the account and to avoid the possibility of the account being defaulted, I 
feel that it was incumbent on Mr B to have provided the income and expenditure information 
as requested to Barclays, if he wanted Barclays to agree to a deviation from the account 
terms for whatever reason.
But Mr B didnt provide the requested income and expenditure information to Barclays, 
despite being given multiple opportunities to do so, and because of this I dont feel that 
Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr B by issuing the default notice to him that they eventually 
did or by subsequently defaulting his account. And on that basis, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.Im aware that Mr B feels that hes incurred significant costs here because of Barclays not 
providing him with the repayment plan that he requested and which therefore necessitated 
continuing correspondence with Barclays. But as explained above, it wasnt Mr Bs position 
to dictate terms here, and Im satisfied that the large majority of the time and effort that Mr B 
has expended could have been avoided if hed provided the income and expenditure 
information that was reasonably requested by Barclays in the first instance. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr B in how theyve managed his credit account, and it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman