DRN-3920320
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a subsidence 
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint. So for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S got in touch with Fairmead in 2018 about damage to his extension.
Fairmead accepted the damage had been caused by subsidence and was covered 
by the policy. It thought the problem had been caused by nearby trees. But, 
concerned about the risk of heave if it removed the trees, it opted for ground 
improvement work to stabilise the extension.
Fairmead asked Mr S to pay an excess and it recorded a subsidence claim. Mr S 
didnt think this was fair. He said the problem was a continuation of an earlier claim 
that had been dealt with by another insurer, A. He didnt think he should pay a 
second excess or that a second claim should be recorded. Because two claims had 
been recorded, he thought he was paying unnecessarily high premiums, it was 
harder to find insurance with other companies, and it would be harder to sell his 
home in the future.
Mr S also raised concerns about how Fairmead had dealt with the recent claim. He 
said it had carried out the ground improvement work, followed by building repairs, in 
late 2019. But by early 2020, some cracking had reappeared. Fairmead agreed there 
had been a problem with the ground improvement work, carried out more, and by 
2021 the building repairs were complete again.
Fairmead said there was insufficient evidence to show A had dealt with the earlier 
claim inadequately, so it was obliged to deal with and record a new claim. It directed 
Mr S to his broker, S, in relation to the premiums. It didnt comment on the way it had 
handled the claim.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said this claim was a 
continuation of the earlier one, so it would be unfair for a second claim to be 
recorded. She also said Fairmead should pay £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the failed stabilisation work.
Mr S accepted our investigators view. Fairmead didnt. It reiterated that it couldnt 
refer the matter back to A and so it had to record and deal with a new claim. It initially 
accepted compensation was due for the way the stabilisation work had been 
handled, although it thought £500 was too much. It then said it didnt think 
compensation was due at all. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a separate complaint to A  and S, the broker. In this decision, Ill 
only be able to consider how Fairmead has acted. So thats what Ill focus on.
Claim handling
Our investigator asked Fairmead to pay £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused following problems with the ground improvement work.
Fairmeads position on this is unclear. It wasnt addressed when it responded to Mr 
S complaint. And it seemed to think our investigator was holding it responsible for 
the way A handled the earlier damage. When she explained it was solely for the way 
Fairmead had dealt with the ground improvement work, Fairmead accepted it should 
pay compensation. But it didnt agree to pay £500, didnt suggest another figure, and 
then later declined to offer any compensation at all. Im disappointed to see this is 
how Fairmead dealt with things.
Ive looked at the timeline of events. Fairmead and Mr S seem to agree on what 
happened, so I wont go into a lot of detail. In summary, the ground improvement and 
building work were completed in late 2019. Within a few months, Mr S noticed 
cracking returning. After some investigation, Fairmead accepted the ground 
improvement work wasnt carried out as it should have been. It carried out further 
work. And, after a period of time to check the cracking didnt return again, the 
building work was completed again.
As a result of the problem with the ground improvement work, Mr S had to suffer the 
distress and inconvenience of seeing the damage return, facilitating another round of 
work, and living with the damage whilst waiting to see if the building had been 
stabilised. In these circumstances, Im satisfied compensation is due. And I think the 
£500 suggested by our investigator is reasonable and proportionate.
Claim recording
Our investigator said Fairmead had acted fairly by dealing with the claim when Mr S 
got in touch with it in 2018. But because she thought the problem was a continuation 
of that dealt with by A, it wouldnt be fair for a second claim to be recorded about it.
I agree Fairmead acted fairly by dealing with the claim. Mr S was its policyholder, and 
he reported a problem that was covered by the policy. So it was the right thing for it 
to deal with that problem for him. Whats in dispute is whether it would be fair for Mr 
S to have a second subsidence claim recorded and taken into account at future 
renewals.
In the separate complaint against A, I found it didnt carry out an effective and lasting 
repair when it handled the claim initially. And the latter damage should be treated as 
a continuation of the initial damage.Had one insurer recorded two claims when there was effectively one, I would have 
asked it to remove the second and recalculate the premiums without it  and refund 
any difference.
However, two different insurers have dealt with two different episodes of damage. A 
would always have logged the claim initially, so the question is whether Fairmead 
should remove the claim it recorded.
Given Fairmead dealt with the damage, made payments and is obliged to keep 
relevant information about that, I think it would be impractical to ask Fairmead to 
remove that claim from its records. However, I can ask it to disregard the claim when 
calculating premiums and other policy terms from the 2023 renewal onwards. That 
will ensure Mr S is treated fairly at future renewals and isnt disadvantaged as a 
result of having a second subsidence claim on his record, despite there being 
effectively one.
I know Mr S is concerned that a second claim will make it harder to find insurance 
with other companies. And that it may make it harder for him to sell the property in 
the future. As I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly by recording the second claim, I 
dont think any potential consequences of the second claim can be held against it.
But it may help to explain that once an insurer has dealt with a subsidence claim, 
industry best practice is for it to continue offering renewals, on reasonable terms, to 
the consumer. That ensures the consumer can continue to access subsidence cover, 
on reasonable terms. I would expect Fairmead to bear this in mind at future 
renewals.
That leaves the premiums at the intervening renewals  2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022 
 and the excess to think about. Ive considered those points in the separate 
complaint against A, so I wont consider them again here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S said he accepted my provisional decision. He noted the award I proposed would 
require Fairmead to act reasonably in the future  including remembering to disregard the 
2018 subsidence claim at future renewals.
Fairmead said it accepted my provisional decision. It noted that it delegates underwriting to 
another company, so in practice that company will take the steps to handle future renewals 
as Id set out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agreed with my provisional findings, so I wont repeat them. Ill focus on the 
points made about the part of my award related to future renewals.
I agree with Mr S that my award will require Fairmead to act fairly going forward. Fairmead 
has agreed to do so. And it has an on-going duty to treat its customers fairly anyway.
There remains the possibility that at future renewals, Mr S may not consider Fairmead has 
acted fairly. I would encourage Fairmead to be clear and open with Mr S about the 
information used to calculate future renewal terms, so he can be assured the 2018 subsidence claim has been disregarded. But if an agreement cant be reached, Mr S will 
have the right to raise a complaint and potentially refer it to this Service if Fairmead cant 
resolve it.
Whilst Fairmead is entitled to delegate its underwriting to another company, Fairmead 
remains ultimately responsible for the underwriting. So it has a duty to ensure the 
underwriting is carried out fairly and follows the award made in this decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay £500 compensation
Disregard the 2018 subsidence claim when offering future renewals
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman