DRN-2836988
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC issued notice to, and 
then proceeded to, close its business accounts. 
Mr W, director of W, brings the complaint on Ws behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As per its terms and conditions, Lloyds is allowed to close business accounts without 
notice for some situations. Or, it can close an account for any other reason as long 
as it gives two months notice. It sent notification on 30 November 2020 that all 
accounts would be closed on 30 January 2021. So Im satisfied that it wouldve been 
acting in line with the terms and conditions of the account  that both parties were 
contracted into  to close the accounts as of this date.
Mr W said W didnt receive the abovementioned notification of closure. I can see that 
Lloyds kept two of the accounts open beyond the intended closure date to allow W 
to make any necessary payments and to allow it the opportunity to make alternative 
arrangements. Lloyds extended this again, so the accounts were ultimately due to 
close on 24 May 2021. I note this is substantially beyond the originally intended 
closure date, so I think Lloyds has fairly taken Ws circumstances into account.
While Lloyds was allowed to close the accounts for any reason, subject to providing 
adequate notice, it provided further information around its decision to do so. It 
determined that Ws anti-money laundering (AML) systems and controls were 
inadequate. W said Lloyds has previously accepted its AML policy. But Lloyds is 
allowed to review its stance on this and, ultimately, its allowed to make its own 
commercial decisions about who it offers accounts to. It isnt required to give W 
more precise information about what it considers to be inadequate, nor is it required 
to give W an opportunity to amend its AML policy. 
Mr W has told us that Lloyds continues to offer its banking service to Ws 
competitors. My decision focuses solely around whether Lloyds has acted fairly and 
in line with the applicable terms and conditions in relation to W  which I determine 
that it has. Its not for me to consider the banking relationship between Lloyds and 
other businesses, for which I dont have the appropriate authority or enough 
information to do so fairly. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly in closing Ws 
accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman