DRN-3961529
The complaint
Miss M complains about the advice and service provided by Lyncombe Consultants Limited 
when she took mortgage advice. She asks for compensation. 
What happened
Miss M contacted LCL for mortgage advice in mid-2021. She wanted to buy a property and 
was considering whether to sell her existing property or let it out. She decided to let the 
property and LCL recommended a residential and a buy to let (BTL) mortgage.
Miss M says she made LCL aware of her red lines, despite which it recommended 
mortgages that crossed these lines. She says there were multiple problems, including:
LCL instructed a solicitor on her behalf without her consent or knowledge. It gave the 
solicitor incorrect information which delayed completion for two months.
LCL sourced a five-year product, despite knowing she wanted the option to sell the BTL 
property within three years. She says it told her the lender would take her income into 
account for the BTL mortgage. This was wrong and she had to borrow less than she 
wanted. 
LCL only recommended one lender, which declined to lend the amount she wanted 
shortly before she wanted to exchange. This limited her options, meaning she had to 
accept a mortgage that didnt meet her requirements and required a larger deposit.
Our investigator said LCL gave Miss M information about available rates and lenders. It took 
the information provided by Miss M during the fact find into account and didnt cause delays. 
LCL offered an introduction to a conveyancer, which Miss M accepted. Our investigator said 
LCL wouldnt have known the lender it recommended wouldnt lend the full amount Miss M 
applied for.
Miss M didnt agree. She explained her concerns and provided further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. Im required to explain how I reach my 
decision about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont have to respond to 
each point raised by Miss M. I should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss M contacted LCL in mid-2021. LCL provided information about the availability and costs 
of taking out one or two mortgages. Miss M found a property to buy and confirmed shed go 
ahead with the two mortgages (one residential and one buy to let) at the end of September 
2021. There was work being done to the property Miss M wanted to buy and she wanted to 
arrange a survey to co-ordinate with this. In early October 2021 Miss M said she was 
booking a survey and would be ready to make a mortgage application after that. She signed 
the documents for the mortgage applications in late October 2021.
Miss M says the mortgages recommended by LCL dont meet her requirements. Miss M 
says she wanted fee-free products, the same fixed product term for both mortgages, and the 
flexibility to sell the BTL property within three years. 
Ive read the fact find completed by LCL and the correspondence between Miss M and LCL. 
I havent seen evidence that Miss M told LCL she had red lines that couldnt be crossed, or 
that she intended to sell the BTL property within three years in order to recoup stamp duty. 
The fact find says that Miss Ms preference was a two-year product but five years was 
acceptable, and although it was less flexible it would protect against short term interest rate 
rises. Based on what LCL knew about Miss Ms aims and circumstances, I think its 
recommendations were suitable. 
LCL sent comparable rates for other lenders, including if Miss M stayed with her own lender. 
Miss M says these werent provided in detail and she was told the recommended lender was 
the best option. She says the broker should only have recommended products she could 
secure, and a plan B should have been agreed in case of a problem. 
Lenders dont share all of their lending criteria (which are commercially sensitive) with 
customers or brokers. It is the lenders decision whether and how much to lend. Having said 
that, based on what Ive seen (which includes the lenders lending criteria), I dont think LCL 
misunderstood what information was required by the lender or what it would take into 
account when making lending decisions.
The reason the lender reduced the amount it would lend to Miss M for the BTL mortgage, 
and only offered this on the basis of a five-year product, was because the surveyor gave a 
lower rental valuation than expected. I dont think LCL could have known that would happen. 
LCL appealed on Miss Ms behalf, but the lender declined the appeal. 
The smaller BTL mortgage reduced the amount available for the deposit for the residential 
property. The amount of the residential mortgage had to be increased. The monthly 
payments for the residential mortgage are higher  these include capital repayments while 
the BTL mortgage is interest only. Miss M was in a difficult position, as she didnt want to risk 
losing her purchase. Ultimately though, it was for Miss M to decide whether to go ahead.
While Miss B says there should have been a plan B it wouldnt be usual for a broker to 
make an application to a second lender in case of a problem like this. What Id expect is for 
the broker to look into the available options, which is what happened here. 
The lender issued mortgage offers for the residential property and BTL re-mortgage in mid-
December 2021. It was then for the solicitors to complete the work required for completion.
Miss M says LCL appointed a solicitor without her consent and gave the solicitor incorrect 
information which resulted in delays. The available evidence doesnt support this.
In September 2021 Miss M said shed had an offer for a property accepted and asked LCL if 
it could recommend a solicitor. It did so, and Miss M asked for an introduction. Miss M 
instructed this solicitor to act for her in purchasing the new property. 
A few days later, Miss M asked the broker to get her a quote  presumably for the BTL re-mortgage. The email trail provided by LCL shows it used an online service to introduce 
solicitors to Miss M, and that Miss M was in direct contact with these solicitors. Ive also seen 
an email from the solicitor to Miss M with its quote and which asked her to confirm if shed 
like to go ahead.
In early December 2021 Miss M told LCL shed instructed a solicitor for the residential 
purchase but didnt have a solicitor for the BTL re-mortgage as the ones shed contacted 
were too busy. The lender offered an in-house solicitor, and the broker provided solicitors 
details. Miss M said shed instruct a solicitor for the BTL re-mortgage herself. She provided 
details of the solicitor shed appointed on 9 December 2021. 
If there was any delay in a solicitor being appointed, confusion about the work to be carried 
out or their fees, I dont think LCL was responsible for this. LCL provided contact details and 
an introduction. It was for Miss M to discuss the solicitors fees and scope of work with them, 
and to decide whether to instruct them.
Miss M says the delays resulted in her paying an ERC to her previous lender four months 
before the product expired. I dont think LCL was responsible for any delays, or for Miss M 
having to pay her previous lender an ERC. Her emails with LCL show she was aware that 
the ERC applied until March 2023. LCL provided information about the relative cost of 
staying with her lender or paying the ERC in order to re-mortgage at a better rate. 
I dont think LCL made errors, caused delays or treated Miss M unfairly. It follows that I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay her compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman