DRN-1362066
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy about how Gladstone Brookes (GB) dealt with her potential claims for mis-
sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs R asked GB to carry out free PPI checks against lender A and lender 
B. GB said they didnt deal with lender A, and they did the free PPI check against lender B. 
This showed Mrs R had been sold PPI, but that shed already made a mis-selling claim. So 
GB couldnt progress any claims for Mrs R.
Mrs R is unhappy that GB didnt keep her updated with the claim against lender B  she 
doesnt remember making any claim and the time it took for GB to update her caused her 
anxiety. Shes also unhappy that GB didnt consider the claim against lender A.
Our investigator felt GB were entitled to decide which lenders they dealt with, so she didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong by not dealing with lender A. She felt that GB couldve told 
Mrs R the outcome of her claim earlier, but that the explanation they gave for this delay was 
reasonable  because of the August 2019 deadline for making new PPI claims, GB were 
prioritising calling customers where claims could be made to ensure the deadline wasnt 
missed. So she didnt think GB should do anything more.
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. She feels that, as a client of GB, I was entitled 
under their duty of care to expect and receive equal treatment and that discriminating 
against unsuccessful clients in favour of clients with the potential for yielding contingency 
fees is quite incorrect.
Mrs R has said that GB shouldve provided her with alternative options about the claim 
against lender A, such as sub-contracting this to another claims management company 
(CMC), because to follow their advice would have caused me to make additional enquiries. 
Shes also said that, in the call of 2 July 2019, when GB apologised for not contacting her, 
thus there was an acknowledgement that they had not carried out their original undertaking 
and failed in their duty of care. So she asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to initial call between GB and Mrs R. Mrs R asked GB about the process for 
making a PPI claim, and they took some details about the financial businesses shed dealt 
with in the past. They explained they didnt deal with lender A, and would only be able to 
look at lender B. They also told Mrs R that she could contact the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for advice and assistance with making a claim against lender A, and that she could 
approach all the lenders direct without using GB.Theres no requirement that a CMC must deal with all lenders. GB explained to Mrs R why 
they didnt deal with lender A and told her what shed need to do to if she wanted to make 
this claim herself. Because GB didnt have any sub-contracting agreements in place with 
another CMC, they couldnt offer this to Mrs R. GB asked Mrs R if she still wanted to go 
ahead with just lender B, and she said she did. I think that GB acted reasonably in the 
circumstances, and I wouldnt expect them to do anything more. I also wouldnt expect them 
to put sub-contracting agreements in place just because they dont deal with certain lenders.
On the call GB also said theyd send out the paperwork so Mrs R could give them authority 
to do a free PPI check against lender B on her behalf. They wrote to Mrs R on 25 February 
2019, sending her the Letter of Authority (LOA) she needed to start the free PPI check. In 
this letter GB also told Mrs R we will contact the lender(s) on your behalf to see if there was 
any PPI held with them and will advise you of their response.
Mrs R signed the LOA on 7 March 2019 and sent this to GB. In a letter dated 18 March, GB 
acknowledged receipt of the LOA and said we will always contact you to confirm if you have 
PPI or not. Lender B responded to the free PPI on 16 May 2019. Ive seen a copy of the 
information lender B sent GB. This shows that Mrs R had been sold PPI. But it also shows 
that a previous PPI complaint had already been made.
Mrs R says shes not made a PPI claim to lender B, and this is different to what lender B 
says. Because lender Bs records say a claim had been made, and GB hadnt represented 
Mrs R in this claim, GB wouldnt be able to get any information from lender B about this. I 
agree this means that GB couldnt progress anything with lender B, and Mrs R would need to 
contact them direct if she wanted to dispute that any had been made.
GB say they set a call back to contact client to explain what her options were, but we had 
not spoken to [Mrs R] prior to her phone call to us on 02.07.2019.  Theyve also said that, 
because of the PPI deadline, their process was to ensure any confirmed PPI clients were 
contacted first, as this reply was an already complained it was placed in a queue to contact 
the client.
GB had said theyd tell Mrs R the outcome of the free PPI check, but didnt say when theyd 
do this. But Id expect GB to do this without undue delay. While CMCs had an obligation to 
ensure that all their claims were submitted before the PPI deadline, Mrs R couldve provided 
further information to show she had a valid claim. So they shouldve contacted her sooner.
However, I dont think Mrs R has been adversely impacted by the delay. She didnt have 
anything to show that lender B was wrong, which would allow GB to pursue a claim for her. 
 And because lender B say shed already claimed, she wasnt affected by the August 2019 
deadline for new claims. I appreciate Mrs R was worried shed not heard from GB, and this 
prompted her to call for an update, but I feel their apology for this delay was sufficient. So I 
wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Gladstone 
Brookes. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman