DRN-4115370
The complaint
Miss S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) was irresponsible to lend to her on
two occasions.
What happened
EDL agreed two loans for Miss S. The first was for £1,500 agreed in July 2007. This was to
be repaid over two years with 23 monthly repayments of £126 following an initial payment of
£47. The second was for £2,200 agreed in December 2007. This was to be repaid over 23
months with repayments of £181 following an initial payment of £69. £1,644 of this loan
capital was used to repay Miss Ss first loan, the remaining £556 was paid to her.
The total amount to be repaid under each agreement included interest and fees. Miss S was
also granted ancillary loans for loan payment and life insurance each time.
Miss S complained to EDL that loans were unaffordable for her and should not have been
agreed. EDL didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. It said that the loans were for debt
consolidation and it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before
agreeing to lend. These included checking Miss Ss bank statements and payslips and her
credit file. It estimated that Miss S would have enough disposable income to meet her loan
repayments and so found the loans to be affordable.
Miss S referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into what happened. They found
that EDL carried out proportionate checks which didnt raise any concerns when Miss S
applied for her first loan. They found that it would have been proportionate for EDL to have
carried out further checks when Miss S applied for a second loan, but that such checks
wouldnt have led to a decline. They concluded that EDL hadnt been irresponsible to lend to
Miss S on either occasion.
Miss S didnt agree with this conclusion and asked for her complaint to come to an
ombudsman for a review and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2023 
explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Ss complaint about her second loan but not her 
first. Miss S didnt wholly agree with my findings and Ive had no further comments or 
information from EDL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into consideration what Miss S said in response to my provisional decision. 
Having looked at everything again, I remain of the view that EDL was irresponsible to agree 
a second loan for Miss S and I am upholding her complaint about that. I am not upholding 
her complaint about the first loan. I appreciate that will be disappointing news for Miss S and 
Im sorry I cant provide the resolution she hoped for. Ill explain my reasons for my 
conclusions again in this final decision, and will refer to Miss Ss response as appropriate.
As before, Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending 
which lenders, such as EDL, need to abide by. EDL will be aware of these, and our 
approach to this type of lending is set out on our website and Ive followed that here. I wont 
refer to the regulations in detail but will summarise and refer to them where appropriate. 
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Miss S borrowed from EDL. Its 
general guidance said that lenders needed to take reasonable care when making loans. This
included carrying out proportionate checks on a borrowers ability to repay the loan taking
into account the particulars of the loan and the degree of risk to the borrower. It would be
irresponsible to lend without taking full account of the borrowers interests.
The OFT later published its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) which set out the
obligations on lenders before and after agreeing credit. Before agreeing credit EDL needed
to check that Miss S could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. This was
likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood that Miss S could repay the credit
as it meant Miss S being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income without
undue difficulty, in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks EDL needed to carry out in
order to reasonably assess whether or not Miss S would be able to meet her repayments
sustainably. In general, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying
out more detailed checks where an applicant had a relatively low level of income, or was
entering into an agreement with a relatively long term or high repayments.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did EDL complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ss applications for her loans to satisfy itself that
she would be able to make her repayments in a sustainable manner? If not, what would
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did EDL make fair lending
decisions?
Loan 1  July 2007
EDL recorded Miss Ss average monthly income as £768 when she applied for her first loan.
It provided copies of the June 2007 payslip and bank statements for May which it relied on. 
Miss Ss payslip for June showed a net pay of about £950 which included overtime 
payments. Her bank statement for May showed £960. EDL noted that Miss S was living with 
her parents, had a car and had been working part-time but was now full-time.
EDL also checked Miss Ss credit file and noted that she had existing debts of £14,675 with
combined monthly repayments of £306. This loan was to be used in part to pay the balances
on two credit cards of £1,051 potentially reducing Miss Ss existing monthly debt payments
by £32. EDL knew Miss Ss continuing debts would amount to about £13,600 or over
£16,500 including its loan. Her monthly repayments would likely be £274 plus its loan
repayment of £126 bringing Miss Ss total monthly repayments on debt to £400 going
forwards.
EDL said it used 35% of Miss Ss net income to estimate an approximate personal
expenditure with a minimum of £400. This left Miss S with a surplus of about £150 after
shed met all her commitments. I appreciate that Miss S was living with her parents and so
might have had fewer financial responsibilities than someone who was not sharing a 
household, however given her level of existing debt I think EDL ought to have looked into her
circumstances in more depth before agreeing to lend to her.
Miss S provided her bank statements from around that time. The direct debits showingincluded mobile network and phone costs, home insurance, eyecare and gym membership 
a total of about £150. EDL knew Miss S was running a car  one of her monthly repayments
was £176 for a car loan - so shed have petrol and running costs. Miss S also told us that
although she was living with a parent she contributed £100 a month to her food and
household bills, and that she had other essential expenses, such as clothing for example. I
cant identify all of this spending on Miss Ss bank statements but it seems reasonable to 
me.
With the information I have and reviewing the bank statements, I cant say that Miss Ss 
living costs came to obviously more than EDL had estimated. It follows that I dont think EDL 
would have come to a different view of the affordability of the loan and would likely have 
agreed to lend to her, even if it had looked into her circumstances further before doing so.
I have considered whether EDL made a fair lending decision here and took full account of
Miss Ss interests, given the amount of existing debt she had. While the above assessment
found that Miss S would likely be able to meet her repayments, it also shows that agreeing
this loan for her would mean shed need to spend 40% of her declared income on repaying
debt, which was a sizeable proportion. Bearing in mind this was Miss Ss first loan with EDL,
some of which was used to clear credit card balances, and bearing in mind her 
circumstances, Ive found that EDL wasnt irresponsible to lend on this occasion.
Miss S said in response to my provisional findings that EDL noted unplanned overdraft fees 
on her bank statements when she applied for her first loan and that this should have 
triggered it to look into her circumstances further, particularly her working hours. She said 
that, even in 2007, under £1,000 for a full time wage was extremely low and having a low 
income should have prompted EDL to carry out further checks and review what her future 
situation might be. Miss S said that EDL was irresponsible to have agreed her first loan 
because shed advised it that she was a university student and that she would be working 
full time in the summer months until she returned to university in the autumn. 
As Ive explained above, I agree with Miss S that EDL ought to have looked into her 
circumstances further before lending to her. EDLs customer contact records noted that 
Miss S had been fully qualified since April, a few months prior, so I dont think EDL would 
have considered a return to university to be a possibility unless Miss S specifically 
mentioned it. I havent seen anything in the information I have that shows EDL was aware or 
had been advised that Miss S planned to return to her studies after the summer. Miss S said 
that, as it happened, she didnt in fact return to university then. Altogether, I cant find that 
EDL should or would have uncovered what Miss S intended to do regarding any future 
studies in this case. 
Miss S also said that EDL never mentioned the loan interest to her and that she was misled 
by the small amount of the first payment. Miss S said that it didnt make financial sense for 
her to swap a larger payment to EDL for the small payment she was making towards the 
debts she intended to consolidate. She said that she only gained additional funds of £500 
from the initial loan so it was an extremely small amount of money to warrant the payment of 
nearly an extra £90 per month. 
Ive reviewed the loan documentation that Miss S signed and I can see it states the total 
charge for the credit and the monthly repayment amounts, so Im satisfied that Miss S was 
informed about the cost of the loan. I dont know if Miss S paid less interest overall by 
consolidating some of her credit card debt with this loan. I appreciate that with hindsight 
Miss S feels she might not make the same decision about taking out the loan but I cant find 
EDL was wrong to offer it to her because of this.
Loan 2  December 2007EDL recorded that Miss Ss circumstances remained unchanged when she applied for a
second loan. She was still living with her parents and earning about £935 a month. As before
EDL checked Miss Ss payslips, some of her bank statements and her credit file.
EDL noted that Miss Ss existing debts came £16,500 and she was spending £423 a month
meeting her repayments, including £126 on her first EDL loan. This second loan was used to
refinance her previous loan and for spending money. The total owed on this loan was £4,232
with repayments of £181. Agreeing this increased Miss Ss debts to over £19,000 and her
monthly debt repayments to almost £480, over half of her monthly income.
Again, EDL said it used 35% of Miss Ss net income to estimate an approximate personal
expenditure with a minimum of £400. This left Miss S with an estimated surplus of £55 each
month. As before, the bank statements Ive seen dont contradict this level of spending. I
think there was a clear risk that Miss S wouldnt be able to meet her repayments for this loan
over the two year term and meet any unexpected costs with this level of surplus. The bank
statements EDL saw showed three unplanned overdraft charges in November 2007
amounting to £100, for example. Altogether, I dont think EDL took full account of Miss Ss
interests by lending to her a second time because of the risk to her of not meeting her
repayments over the loan term.
Furthermore, by agreeing this credit for Miss S, EDL potentially committed her to
spending more than half of her income on debt repayments. It seems Miss S was already
reliant on credit and was rarely out of her overdraft and, as mentioned was paying
unplanned overdraft fees. The two credit card balances shed repaid with her first loan
had built up again and shed opened new lines of credit. I think it was foreseeable that
Miss S was likely to have problems meeting her repayments for this loan and Ive concluded
that EDL was irresponsible to have lent to her. 
Miss S fell into arrears with her loan within six months and by October 2008 had set up a
repayment plan with EDL. In 2011 Miss S was being supported by a national advice
charity and later entered into a Trust Deed. I understand that EDLs loan wasnt included in 
the deed, and that Miss S repaid more than the amount she borrowed before EDL wrote off 
an outstanding balance. 
Miss S says that this loan started her on a downward spiral and she went on to take out 
more credit which included rolling short term loans for a significant period of time. Its clear to 
me that Miss S lost out by taking on this loan - she paid interest and fees, and likely had 
adverse information recorded on her credit file. Ive set out below what EDL needs to do to 
put things right for her.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Miss S a second time. 
As Miss S had the use of the money she borrowed I think its fair that she repays this, but 
she shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or premiums associated with the loan agreed in 
December 2007. 
To put things right for Miss S, EDL should:
a) refund all payments that Miss S made above the capital amount of £2,200 including 
any payments made for associated insurances; and
b) add 8% simple interest per annum* on these overpayments from the date they were 
paid until the date this complaint is settled; and
c) remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Ss credit file.As mentioned, EDL wrote off an outstanding balance on the loan. If EDL sold this debt
and Miss S is still being asked to repay this (which I think is unlikely) then EDL needs to
work with the current debt owner to carry out the above redress.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding Miss Ss complaint in part and Everyday 
Lending Limited now needs to take the above steps to put things right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman