DRN-2810462
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he transferred after it didnt 
reach the beneficiary. 
What happened
Mr S made an international payment for 501.62 USD (£390) on 17 November 2020, to his 
cousin in the United States. This payment was made through his online banking. 
The payment shouldve been with the recipient within one to three working days. However, 
after a week or so the payment hadnt arrived, so Mr S contacted Barclays. 
Barclays logged a non-receipt claim on Mr Ss behalf on 25 November 2020 which involved 
it contacting the recipient bank. It says this was chased on 3 December 2020, 31 December 
2020 and 5 January 2021. It also recommended that Mr S contact the recipient bank himself. 
However, Mr S did this, but the recipient bank wouldnt provide him with any information and 
told him to revert back to his own bank. 
By 22 January 2021 Barclays had received a message back saying that the payment had 
been seized pursuant of US Treasury regulations and therefore wouldnt be returned. There 
were instructions included in the message detailing that a licence would need to be sought 
for the payment to be released. 
Barclays explained this to Mr S following him logging a complaint, but he remained unhappy. 
He said he couldnt afford to lose this money  hed resent it to his cousin via a different 
method  and it should be Barclays responsibility to get the money back for him. Barclays 
didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that Barclays had correctly 
processed Mr Ss payment in line with his payment instructions. It had tried to recall the 
payment on behalf of Mr S, but this was unsuccessful due to the fact the money is being 
held by the US Treasury. This is out of Barclays control and therefore it isnt expected to do 
anything further. 
Mr S didnt agree. He says Barclays failed to deliver on its promise to deliver the funds within 
one to three business days and its not fair that he should suffer the loss, as appose to 
Barclays. He says Barclays should display a warning that there is no guarantee the payment 
will arrive in the recipient account and the account holder is therefore taking a risk using the 
service. He pointed to the following advert displayed on its website which has no such 
warning:
Its quick and easy to send money all over the world with Online Banking. You can also 
send euros, US dollars and pay in other currencies in the Barclays app. Sending money is 
fee-free when you make the payment online or in your app. You can also go
to a branch  youll need to pay a £25 fee if you do
Mr S says Barclays should be fined and punished for its misleading advert. 
Because Mr S disagreed the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling that Barclays has failed in its duty to deliver his 
international payment. However, I cant agree this is the case. Barclays did in fact make the 
payment in line with the payment instruction and fulfilled its part of the payment transaction. 
Im afraid I cant then hold it responsible for what happens when it hits the destination bank. 
As with all payments, whether they be domestic or international, banks have legal and 
regulatory obligations to adhere to which may mean a payment is stopped for a review. This 
appears to be what happened to the money once it hit Mr Ss cousins bank. This isnt 
something within Barclays control.
And nor do I expect Barclays to advertise all the possibilities of what could happen to a 
payment when it does reach its destination. Ultimately, the payment was made correctly, and 
it would be for Mr Ss cousin to seek the return of the money from his bank and the US 
Treasury. 
Barclays attempted to recall the money which is what I would expect it to do. But this 
process is done on a best endeavours basis, with no guarantee of success. As soon as the 
payment was sent, the return was dependent on the recipient bank. And as explained to Mr 
S already, the money is being held by the recipient bank due to US Treasury regulations and 
so wont be released unless a licence is obtained from them. 
Im pleased to see Barclays and our investigator has explained this to Mr S and he can liaise 
with his cousin to try and obtain the license. There is nothing further I can fairly expect 
Barclays to do in this situation  including refunding Mr S the money itself. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman