DRN-1589505
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited when they contacted him about an account fee refund. 
What happened
Mr R had an existing store card with Home Retail. In March 2010, Mr R changed his name 
by Deed Poll, but he didnt make Home Retail aware. In September 2019, Mr R received a 
letter from a company acting on behalf of Home Retail which was addressed to his original 
name saying that they needed to refund a late payment fee theyd taken in error in 2010. 
Mr R told them that as hed changed his name in 2010, they would need to issue the refund 
in his new name. Home Retail said they could do this but only after Mr R had provided them 
with a copy of the documentation to confirm this. 
Mr R didnt think this was reasonable. He said that the letter from Home Retails agent was 
vague and had caused him concern. And he was also worried that his credit file had been 
adversely affected by them. Mr R also felt he shouldnt have to provide the name change 
documentation as they had already been able to locate him under his new name. So he 
raised a complaint. 
Home Retail didnt uphold the complaint. They apologised to Mr R, but they explained the 
letter had been vague as theyd wanted to check theyd found the right person before 
disclosing more information and leaving the account open to potential fraud. They also said 
they needed the relevant documentation to confirm they had the right person before issuing 
the refund. They added that although the late payment fee had been applied incorrectly his 
credit file hadnt been affected and had been reported correctly to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mr R didnt agree so he asked this service to look into his complaint. He also didnt think it 
was fair that Home Retail were only refunding the fee not the additional interest.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt that it was reasonable 
the letter Mr R had received from Home Retails agent was vague as they wanted to ensure 
they were contacting the right person. She also felt it was reasonable that Home Retail had 
asked for proof Mr R had changed his name before updating their records. And the charge 
wouldnt have affected Mr Rs credit file as he was in arrears at the time, and because the 
error had happened more than six years ago, it wouldnt have an impact on Mr Rs credit file 
now.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I recognise that Mr R said he felt worried that hed received a vague letter which referred to 
his previous name and a transaction dating back to 2010 with limited information. However, I 
dont think Home Retail acted unreasonably here. I say this because, although Home 
Retails agent had written to Mr R, they couldnt be sure that he was definitely the right 
person they were looking for, as theyd located him using publicly available information. So 
they didnt want to give Mr R any more detail than minimum needed to in order for him to 
recognise the account and make contact with them. 
It must have been frustrating for Mr R that the agent couldnt give him the information over 
the phone when he initially asked for it. However, the account held by Home Retail was in 
Mr Rs old name, and Mr R also told us he was living at a different address to the one Home 
Retail would have held on their records. So Im satisfied that the information Home Retail 
had requested from Mr R to verify he was the right person was reasonable. And I think its 
understandable that they wanted to make further checks to ensure the refund would be 
going to the correct person. 
Mr R also told us he wasnt asked to provide name change documentation when hed initially 
contacted Home Retails agent. However, Ive seen that when Mr R told the agent he was 
unhappy with the letter hed received from them, they logged a complaint so Home Retail 
could contact Mr R directly. And when Home Retail wrote to Mr R a couple of days later to 
explain why the initial letter had been vague, they also told him they would change the name 
on his account and issue the refund as soon as they received a copy of the Deed Poll 
documentation.  
Ive looked at Home Retails internal process, and I can see that the information they 
requested from Mr R is what they would require for them to undertake a change of name 
request. Ive also seen that when they received the requested documentation from Mr R, 
they updated his account and issued the refund cheque in his new name. So I dont think 
Home Retail have treated Mr R unfairly.
Mr R also said he was unhappy that no interest had been added to the refunded fee balance 
he was receiving. But I dont agree. Ive seen a breakdown of the balance from Argos which 
included a refund of both the contractual interest Mr R paid incorrectly, and the standard 8% 
interest per annum he would have received if the account had been in credit. So Im satisfied 
that Home Retail have refunded Mr R what they should have in the circumstances of this 
case.
Home Retail told us that they only report to the credit reference agencies when actual 
arrears appear on an account, not when late payment fees are applied. Ive seen a copy of 
Mr Rs account statement for December 2010 which shows hed made the required payment 
the previous month and wasnt in arrears on his account. Due to the time thats passed Im 
unable to see Mr Rs credit report from 2010. However, if Home Retail only reported arrears 
balances, and the account wasnt in arrears when the incorrect fee was applied, I think its 
unlikely that it would have had an impact on Mr Rs credit file. 
I acknowledge Mr R said hed been caused distress when hed received the letter from the 
agent as he was concerned about the impact this might have. However, its not for me to 
punish a business for making a mistake. And Ive seen that Home Retail have apologised for 
their error and refunded the fee plus the related interest. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman