DRN-3333534
The complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly closed his account and failed 
to tell him why. He believes Halifaxs decision was racist and the account should be 
reopened.
What happened
Mr C held a current account with Halifax. In February 2021 Halifax reviewed its relationship 
with him. 
Around that time Mr C made several large withdrawals from his account over several days. 
He recalls being asked questions in branch about a withdrawal, which he didnt like, and 
which led to him withdrawing most of his funds. He says he was going to use the money to 
pay for a car, although he ended up using it to purchase other goods and to pay his mother. 
He also recalled receiving two large payments the previous month, which primarily funded 
the withdrawals. He says the payments were from a successful insurance claim and from a 
child trust. 
Halifax gave Mr C two months notice that his account would close. During this time Mr C 
withdrew all his funds and later complained to Halifax. He feels Halifax should tell him why 
his account was closed and that its decision was racist. 
Mr C also had accounts with other banks which were closed, which he says left him without 
a bank account for a period as he struggled to open an account elsewhere. He now has an 
account with another bank following the removal of a CIFAs marker recorded by a different 
bank. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They concluded Halifax gave him the correct 
notice period under its terms and conditions, and it didnt need to tell him why the account 
closed. Mr C asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax has the discretion to close customers accounts. And, generally our service will not
interfere with the exercise of that discretion. Of course, if a decision to close an account was
due to racism, then that wouldnt be fair.
I have listened carefully to what Mr C has said, and I have no reason to doubt that he feels
he has been treated differently due to racism. But based on the information I have I do not
find it points to Halifax treating him differently because of his race. Understandably, Mr C
wants to know why his account was closed, but it does not have to reveal those reasons to
him, so I am not going to direct it to reveal them.
Mr C had a number of accounts closed with different banks, and he says he struggled to
open an account elsewhere before he was eventually successful. But I have seen no
information to show that Halifax recorded a marker against him which would prevent him
opening accounts with banks outside of the group of banks to which Halifax belongs. Instead
I think its more likely he was able to open an account after another bank removed a CIFAs
marker recorded against him.
Halifax needed to follow the correct terms and conditions to close Mr Cs account. It gave
him two months notice that the account would close, and Im satisfied this shows it followed 
the correct terms and conditions. So, I am not directing it to reopen his account or to pay him
compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman