DRN-3418407
The complaint
Mr P says MBNA Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which paid for accommodation abroad.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr P used his MBNA credit card to make a part payment for 
accommodation abroad for a large family group. The accommodation was to be stayed in 
during August 2020. He paid Firm H who had provided information about availability and 
rates for the accommodation on its website. Mr P paid £8288.82 as part payment to Firm H, 
and this was allocated to Mr Ps credit card account and the accommodation was booked 
with a separate company who provided accommodation (the Supplier).
Mr P had booked flights separately and in 2020 he received notification that his flights had 
been cancelled due to the pandemic. Mr P says that he couldnt travel to the accommodation 
due to the pandemic rules in place both at home in the UK and in the country where the 
accommodation was. Mr P complained to the Supplier and it offered a credit voucher for 
future use. Mr P says hes declined this because he wanted his money back. He complained 
to Firm H, but it made clear his agreement was with the Supplier and not it.
So he took his dispute to MBNA to see if it could help. MBNA says it considered the matter 
and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund him the cost of the accommodation. So 
Mr P still unsatisfied brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt MBNA didnt have to do anymore. And Mr P remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should add at this juncture that I have already considered a mirror complaint from Mr P 
regarding this particular accommodation booking. Mr P used two different credit card 
accounts to pay towards the accommodation in question. The facts of these mirror 
complaints are essentially identical in terms of what happened with regard to Mr Ps booking 
and the reasons why Mr P says he couldnt go and why he feels he should get his money 
back. The only substantial differences between these complaints that Ive considered is with 
regard to the two different credit cards being used to fund this accommodation and the 
amounts and dates of the transactions. There are some other differences which I shall 
highlight through the course of this decision. Accordingly Im sorry if Mr P feels the following 
arguments and phrasing sound familiar but consistency of approach in explaining these 
complicated matters is an important consideration.
Mr P used his MBNA credit card to pay Firm H for the accommodation. This means MBNA 
has certain responsibilities to Mr P which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain circumstances Section 
75 has the effect of allowing Mr P to hold MBNA liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large 
amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide 
what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which 
is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Mr Ps MBNA credit card is part of a card network which is operated by another company. 
And this network has rules which includes giving MBNA an avenue for card transactions to 
be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process. It should be noted the 
card network here is the same as that in his mirror complaint.
I should also add make clear that this decision is solely about MBNA and whether it did what 
it should have and whether it treated Mr P fairly. This decision isnt about Firm H or the 
Supplier, neither of whom are parties to this decision and neither of which are within this 
services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this important 
distinction is clear.
could MBNA challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr P does 
here, MBNA can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr P doesnt dispute that 
he used his MBNA credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other 
details about the transaction itself. So I dont think MBNA couldve challenged the payment 
on the basis Mr P didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
MBNA is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
MBNA considered what Mr P told it about what happened and considered the Chargeback 
scheme rules. And it raised a Chargeback with the Supplier. And it represented the 
Chargeback and the Supplier responded with evidence including an email from the 
management of the accommodation. Through this process MBNA was made aware that 
under the accommodation agreement there wasnt an option for Mr P to get his money back 
if he didnt go or he cancelled. MBNA also noted that a credit voucher had been offered 
despite there was no requirement to do so under the terms and conditions agreed. And it 
noted that the Supplier had refused to make a refund. So MBNA says that once it had 
established this it decided not to continue with the Chargeback process as it didnt consider 
there to be a reasonable prospect of success.
Having considered the matter and what the information available here I dont think Mr P has 
lost out here because MBNA didnt continue with the Chargeback, as I think, on balance, 
such a Chargeback was unlikely to succeed had it continued to the end of the process. Im 
satisfied on balance that the accommodation was available. And although Mr P couldnt get 
there because his flights were cancelled and he may not have been allowed into the country 
where the accommodation is, neither of these issues are the Suppliers fault. It was only 
responsible for supplying the accommodation and Im satisfied on balance it was available. 
So I dont think Mr P has lost out because MBNA didnt pursue a Chargeback any further 
than it did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ps claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr P) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier) as well as with the 
credit provider (the Creditor-MBNA). And this is the crux of the complaint here because DCS 
has to be established in order for MBNA to be responsible for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Mr P says that the DCS relationship is in place so MBNA can be held 
liable for any breach of contract by the Supplier.
The Supplier was due to supply Mr P with the Accommodation, but it wasnt who he paid 
with his credit card. He paid Firm H. Mr P says he wasnt aware of this issue until some-time 
after the purchase. Firm H sets out in its terms and conditions that (in summary):
It does not own or manage, nor can it contract for, any vacation rental property listed 
on its websites.
That its websites provide an on-line marketplace to allow those with properties to rent 
to advertise on the website to offer for rent a specific vacation or short-term rental 
property to potential renters or renters.
That it is not a party to any rental or other agreement between users of its website.
And these are the terms Mr P agreed to when using Firm Hs service. So its clear that by 
using the site Mr P accepted Firm Hs terms as set out in the terms and conditions of the 
agreement entered into. 
However Mr P paid Firm H (not the Supplier) but the issues Mr P said were suffered were 
with the Supplier as it was the Supplier who wouldnt give him his money back. So clearly 
there are four parties here namely Mr P, the Supplier, Firm H and MBNA. So Im not 
persuaded that DCS is in place here with regard to the services provided by the Supplier. It 
is in place between Firm H, Mr P and MBNA but I dont see any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Firm H here in relation to the services it provided. After all it introduced 
Mr P to the Supplier and provided booking services which he used successfully. 
And as for the services provided by the Supplier, there are four parties here as Ive 
described. So Im not satisfied this meets the criteria for DCS as set out in the CCA. And 
accordingly MBNA cannot be held responsible for any breach or misrepresentation made by 
the Supplier here. So Mr Ps complaint is unsuccessful. 
For completeness I shall now deal with Mr Ps arguments. Mr P questions whether the 
accommodation was actually available. This Service has seen evidence showing that at the 
time of when the accommodation was due to be occupied by Mr P and family that such 
rental of accommodation was allowed in that location. Mr P argues that he couldnt get to the 
accommodation and the country may not have let him and his family through its border. This 
may well be the case. But the Supplier only had to provide the accommodation agreed to, to 
fulfil its side of the contract as per the terms agreed. It wasnt responsible for either Mr Ps 
travel arrangements or his being able to enter the country.
Mr P points to the CMA guidance around package travel. But Mr Ps arrangements dont constitute a package holiday under its terms as different elements of his arrangements were 
purchased separately. And in this case this transaction only paid towards accommodation. 
So I dont think this guidance makes a difference here.
Mr P points to other cases where credit providers have paid out in similar circumstances. 
This may well be the case. And consumers who purchase package holidays or enter into 
arrangements where DCS is made out have far greater likelihood of recouping losses from 
credit providers due to the enhanced protections available in such situations. But this service 
only looks at the individual merits of individual cases and Im satisfied here that MBNA hasnt 
treated Mr P unfairly in these particular circumstances.
Mr P has suggested his contract was frustrated. I take this to mean within the legal meaning 
of frustration of contract. The Courts have always been very clear that contracts can only be 
considered to have been frustrated where neither party could fulfil their obligations under the 
contract agreed for reasons not dealt with within the contract (including where terms are 
explicit or indeed implied). But this isnt the case here. Im satisfied on balance that the 
accommodation was available to be occupied during the dates Mr P booked for. So the 
Supplier fulfilled their part of the deal. But Mr Ps argument isnt persuasive in any case 
because MBNA can only be liable if the criteria under the CCA are made out. And Im not 
persuaded DCS is made out here for the reasons given already in this decision.
Mr P also argues that even if he had been able to travel and had been able to get through 
the relevant countries borders he would not have enjoyed the accommodation to the full 
extent due to the rules in place locally due to the pandemic. This maybe the case. But the 
Supplier was only responsible for providing the accommodation services agreed. It wasnt 
responsible for providing anything else such as local amenities. And Im satisfied the 
accommodation was available. And as Mr P didnt occupy the accommodation Mr P isnt in a 
position to point to any actual failings with the accommodation as he simply doesnt know 
whether what was due to be provided was actually provided. And the fact that he couldnt 
attend wasnt the Suppliers fault. And even if such breaches or misrepresentations could be 
made out it still wouldnt make MBNA responsible as DCS hasnt been made out.
It should also be remembered that the only reason MBNA is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then MBNA wouldnt have such 
potential liability for the accommodation (it would have obligations around Chargeback but 
that isnt nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am 
to hold MBNA liable, that the tests required under the CCA must be met including DCS. And 
Im satisfied it isnt made out here.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr P wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ps avenues for recouping these significant funds spent here will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that MBNA has done anything wrong in dealing 
with the issues arising from this transaction.
And I reiterate my comments earlier about the similarities between this and my other 
decision on this mirror complaint and acknowledge the similarities in the facts of these 
cases.
All in all having considered the matter and everything Mr P has said, Im not persuaded 
MBNA has treated Mr P unfairly. So I dont think MBNA hasnt done anything wrong here 
which needs remedy. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mr Ps complaint shouldnt 
succeed.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman