The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc stopped paying interest on two accounts he holds with 
it. TSB says that's because Mr G wasn't registered to receive paperless statements and 
correspondence, but he says he wasn't told that was a requirement.
What happened
Mr G opened two Classic Plus accounts with TSB in April 2014, shortly after the account 
was introduced. Initially, Mr G received interest on both accounts, but he says that this 
stopped in October 2017, although he didn't notice until nearly two years later. He 
complained to TSB. It explained that Mr G hadn't been receiving interest on the accounts 
because he hadn't been registered to receive paperless statements. 
Mr G said that it hadn't been a requirement when he opened the account that he receive 
paperless statements, and that he hadn't been told of any changes. He asked this service to 
look into things, and one of our investigators did that. Her findings were however that it had 
been a term of the account that customers be registered to receive paperless statements 
and that TSB had therefore treated Mr G fairly. Mr G didn't accept the  investigators findings 
and asked that an ombudsman review them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I've indicated, Mr G opened his accounts in April 2014. TSB says it wrote to customers in 
October and December 2014 about changes to the way it would operate the Classic Plus 
account. It's provided samples of those letters, both of which explain that:
the account is a paperless account;
the account terms require customers to pay in at least £500 a month, register for
internet banking, and sign up for paperless statements and correspondence;
TSB hasn't applied the conditions concerning internet banking and paperless
statements and correspondence, but that it will do so from 31 January 2015.
Whilst the copies that TSB has sent are samples (rather than copies of letters sent to Mr G), 
I think it more likely than not that, as an account holder, Mr G would have been included in 
the bank's mailing list for them. 
Banks are generally required to tell customers about changes to account terms where the 
change is not to the customer's advantage. The letters of October and December 2014 
DRN-1509223weren't, strictly speaking, about changes to the account terms, but about changes to the way 
TSB intended to apply those terms. But I don't think that distinction is significant here. Since 
Mr G was a customer to whom those changes applied, I think it more likely than not that he 
was included on the list of customers who would have been sent them. It follows that he was 
given proper notice of the changes and wasn't entitled to receive interest unless he met the 
conditions set out in them. 
It appears however that Mr G was paid interest until September 2017. TSB has suggested 
that he must therefore have been registered to receive paperless statements and 
correspondence until then. If that's right, Mr G must have changed those arrangements - but 
that's not consistent with his recollection. I'm satisfied however that the account terms did 
require Mr G to be registered for paperless statements and that, from October 2017 (and 
possibly earlier) he was not. 
TSB says too that it sent Mr G a number of messages through internet banking, alerting him 
to the fact that he wasn't registered for paperless statements. Mr G says he didn't see them, 
as he rarely checks messages. However, since I'm satisfied he was told towards the end of 
2014 of the requirements of the account and that TSB would be applying them, I don't need 
to comment any further on that. 
I note as well that Mr G had a similar problem with a joint account held with TSB. That came 
to light shortly before he stopped receiving interest on the sole accounts, but the bank 
settled the joint account issue as a gesture of goodwill. It's possible that changes were made 
to the sole accounts after that, but the joint account complaint might also have served as a 
reminder of the account terms and of the need to check online correspondence. Be that as it 
may, I don't believe that TSB has treated Mr G unfairly here.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require TSB Bank plc to do anything further to resolve Mr G's 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman