DRN-1195758
The complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr L took out a £100 loan with MYJAR in June 2013. The loan had a term of 15 days with a 
contractual interest charge of £17.
An adjudicator considered Mr L's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr L didn't 
agree and so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
From what MYJAR has said Mr L declared an income of £1,300 per month and outgoings of 
£300. If MYJAR also carried out credit history checks, it hasn't shown us evidence of this.
Although I haven't seen that MYJAR carried out a credit history check, I think the way it 
assessed the affordability of Mr L's loan was proportionate. This was a very short-term loan 
with an interest charge of just £17. Based on the information MYJAR did obtain, I think it 
reasonably decided the loan was likely to be affordable for Mr L.
I appreciate that Mr L thinks MYJAR ought to have checked his credit history. But this isn't 
something it was obliged to do and isn't necessarily a proportionate step in all 
circumstances. That MYJAR didn't check Mr L's credit history doesn't mean it didn't carry out 
identity checks, as those are separate checks. And I wouldn't expect a £100 15-day loan to 
be subject to the same level of checking as a mortgage.
For these reasons, I'm not upholding Mr L's complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman