DRN-3250496
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2017, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr M decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The sales representative was adamant that the financial benefits from the system 
would make it a self-funding system which would pay for itself through the income 
and savings it would generate.
On the basis that the system would be self-funding as the financial benefits would 
cover the monthly finance payments they agreed to purchase the system at a cash 
price of £8,929.00.
However, due to the use of the loan agreement the real cost of the system is 
£17,149.60
Mr M was never given time to consider the paperwork or weigh up their options, they 
were pressured into signing that day.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr M accepts that the quote was referred to at the meeting, but this was on the sales 
agents laptop and Mr M was not taken through it in detail or given the chance to read 
its contents. 
Mr M was repeatedly told by the sales agent that the system would be self-funding 
and he relied on these statements when agreeing to purchase the system. 
Although he was sent the quote, he did not feel the need to read over the 30-page 
document as he was satisfied by what he had been told by the sales agent.
In any event, although we disagree that Mr M read and understood the quotation, we 
note from the quote that this suggests Mr M will only be out of pocket by £15.32 per 
month in the first year, and will begin to make a profit on a monthly basis in the 5th 
year. 
When considering the quote, Mr Ms system is projected to become self-funding 
between years 13 and 14 of the loan agreement. As such, had Mr M read the 
document, they would have been entitled to assume that the system would be self-
funding within the term of the loan as promised by the sales agent. 
Given the very small amount by which they would be out of pocket per month in the 
first 5 years, they may have been willing to proceed on this basis on the 
understanding they would soon be making enough to cover their outlay.
However, this has not been the case. Based on our review of Mr Ms FIT and 
electricity savings, Mr M is making a monthly benefit that is substantially less than 
predicted in the quotation.
In light of the above, P has clearly put forward untrue statements which may have 
contributed to Mr M agreeing to purchase the system.
Shawbrook has since been in touch to say it is willing to offer £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in responding to the complaint. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ms recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr M agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I 
have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr M agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,929.00. But because 
this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan this hid the true cost of the 
system, which was £17,149.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr M makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£9,029.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of 
the system was £9,029.00. The total amount of credit is £8,929.00 and goes on to show that 
the total amount payable would be £17,149.60.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,029.00, it would cost 
Mr M more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £248.36.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £263.98 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £961.14. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.41 (slightly more than the actual monthly 
payment of £94.72). For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12-months and subtracts the 
assumed monthly loan repayment of £95.41, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr M that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr M could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr M. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,732 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 4,016 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
partly explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
It is also possible that Mr M hasnt been using as much of the generated electricity as P 
assumed, as this depends on when he uses electricity in the home (the panels only 
generating electricity in daylight hours).
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman