DRN-1549681
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage debt Ms L held until recently with Bradford & Bingley Plc 
(B&B). Shes unhappy that B&B wrote saying she owed over £26,000 when a court had 
decided in 2011 she was only liable for £13,000.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill provide a brief summary, and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
In 2011, a court ordered that whilst Ms Ls debt to B&B was over £26,000, her liability for it 
would be limited to £13,000, subject to her paying £10 a month off the balance. In 2018, 
Ms L brought a complaint to us after B&B inadvertently told her she owed the full amount. 
That complaint was resolved by B&B agreeing to our investigators recommendation that it 
increase its offer of compensation from £100 to £250 for the distress it had caused Ms L.
Ms L brought this complaint to us after deciding in 2019 to sell her home. In letters B&B sent 
in connection with the redemption of the mortgage (to Ms L and her solicitor) it quoted the 
full figure of more than £26,000. This was remedied after Ms L again drew attention to the 
court order from 2011. B&B apologised again and when the redemption went through, the 
amount paid to B&B was just under £12,000.
Ms L is unhappy at B&B again sending out letters asking for the wrong amount. Shes also 
unhappy that it wouldnt accept an offer from her to pay £6,000 in full and final settlement of 
the debt.
A different investigator looked at this complaint, but didnt recommend any award of redress. 
He didnt think it was unfair of B&B to refuse Ms Ls offer of £6,000. As for the repeat of the 
error over the outstanding balance, he thought B&Bs apology was enough, as B&B had 
previously explained that its system might generate letters quoting the full balance in future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same reasons.
B&B didnt have to agree to any further reduction in the debt beyond that which the court had 
already ordered in 2011. Meanwhile, I appreciate it must have been irksome for Ms L that 
B&B sent out correspondence in September 2019 quoting the full balance, in the same way 
it had done the year before. 
But I agree with the investigator that compensation isnt warranted this time in the way it was 
in 2018, not least because B&B had forewarned that, due to system constraints, it couldnt 
rule out the possibility of it happening again. Ive no doubt it was a surprise and a shock for 
Ms L when it happened in 2018; Im not persuaded it need have been in 2019.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman