DRN-3384906
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc blocked his account and then gave notice that it would 
close it without giving any proper explanation for its actions.
What happened
Mr H had a cash account with TSB. On 29 September 2021 TSB wrote to him to say that the 
account had been blocked. TSB explained that it wanted some information from Mr H about 
the operation of the account; in particular, it asked him about the source of funds into the 
account. 
Mr H provided the information which TSB had requested, although he felt that it was not 
appropriate of TSB to ask for it. 
Even though Mr H thought that he had provided the information which TSB had asked for, it 
still did not agree to remove the block on the account. Instead, on 2 November 2021, it wrote 
to Mr H to tell him that it would close his account after 60 days. In the event, Mr H was able 
to close his account almost immediately and to transfer the funds in it to an account he held 
with a different bank. 
Mr H did not think he had been fairly treated. He said that the banks actions had caused 
distress and inconvenience, both to him and to those close to him.
Mr H referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator said, in summary, that TSB was within its rights to review Mr Hs 
account and, while it was doing so, to place a block on it. It was also within its rights to 
decide that it no longer wanted to provide banking services to Mr H and to give notice of 
closure of the account. The investigator did not recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. 
Mr H did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.              
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with TSBs decision to place restrictions on Mr Hs account. Banks are entitled to 
review the operation of customers accounts, and in some circumstances might be under a 
regulatory or legal obligation to do so. I do not therefore think it was unreasonable for TSB to 
request information from Mr H about his account, as part of its review.
I think it was reasonable as well for TSB to block the account while it carried out the review, 
which I am satisfied it completed without unreasonable delays. It was not obliged to provide 
Mr H with details of the review it was undertaking or the reasons for it.
I turn now to the decision to close the account. Generally, it is for banks to decide whether or 
not to provide or to continue to provide a customer with banking facilities. This service will 
not usually interfere with a banks commercial discretion in such matters, and I see no 
reason to do so here. Banks are also under no duty to tell a customer why they are closing 
an account, so again I do not think it was unreasonable that TSB did not do so in this case. 
We would expect a bank to give reasonable notice before closing an account. What is 
reasonable depends on the circumstances. In this case, Mr H was told that TSB would close 
his account after 60 days, but he was able to move his funds to another account almost 
immediately. I believe therefore that the notice given by TSB was reasonable.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require TSB Bank plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman