DRN-3881320
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when she returned a car after her hire agreement ended.
What happened
Mrs H entered into a hire agreement in October 2018. Although the agreement was due to 
run until October 202 it was extended, and Mrs H returned the car in March 2022. Mrs H 
says shes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied when she returned 
the car. Mrs H told us:
The car was first inspected at her house and the inspector complimented her on the 
state of it;
some time later, MBFS sent her an invoice for vehicle damage totalling £970.00, and 
after she complained about this, the invoice was reduced to £735;
for some items, shes being unfairly billed for vehicle damage that simply wasnt 
present when the car left her house;
in other areas, shes unhappy with the charges that have been levied for vehicle 
damage and she says she wasnt given an opportunity to carry out any repairs before 
being charged.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said the car was collected on 25 March 2022 by an 
independent third party and taken to a site for a detailed inspection, which took place on 31 
March. It said this inspection identified some faults, damages and modifications requiring 
repairs totalling £970. MBFS said it had reviewed the charges and agreed to remove some 
of them. It says it also offered Mrs H an additional discount if she paid promptly. 
MBFS said its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Mrs Hs car, and it said this had been provided to Mrs H at the start of her 
agreement and again six months before it expired. It said the pricing matrix it had supplied to 
Mrs H at the start of the finance agreement provided details of the expected cost of any 
repairs. And it said Mrs H had had ample opportunity to familiarise herself with its fair wear 
and tear expectations and this provided her with the opportunity to have any repairs carried 
out prior to any inspection.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards and the pricing matrix. And 
it confirmed that it was owed £735.00 by Mrs H. 
Mrs H disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the general standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the 
British Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide 
whether the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the evidence submitted by MBFS to support its position and assessed 
this against both MBFS VRS document and the wider industry guidelines, and he thought 
the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, was 
chargeable.
Mrs H disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says one of the charges 
removed by MBFS is similar to another charge that it wont remove, and this is inconsistent. 
She also says that some of the damage wasnt identified when the car was first inspected at 
her house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mrs H, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out that an assessment will be made in 
line with the VRS and it sets out what the acceptable conditions are, with examples, and 
what conditions are unacceptable. It goes on to explain that the customer will have to pay 
the costs of either repairing or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale of it. Ive read this carefully, and Im satisfied that Mrs H was 
responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all the 
charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies a number of areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable 
- outside fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand front wheel  damaged spoke £110.00
2. Right hand front wheel  damaged spoke £110.00
3. Rear bumper  scratched through primer £210.00
4. Tinted windows  five  tinting to be removed £175.00
5. Right hand rear inner door shut  dented £130.00
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS VRS when deciding what is fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mrs H.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to the areas identified by MBFS. It says:
Wheels  Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is 
not acceptable.
Rear bumper  Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is 
not showing are acceptable provided, they can be polished out
Tinted windows  Badges, emblems, labels, logos and advertising livery applied by 
the customer to the bodywork or glass of the vehicle should be removed before 
returning the vehicle. Removing Badges, emblems, labels, logos and advertising 
livery must be done professionally, and the vehicle returned to its original colour and 
condition unless otherwise agreed in writing with the vehicle leasing company.
Inner door  Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are 
no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken.So, Im satisfied that the areas identified by MBFS as faulty or damaged or modified are 
indeed beyond what is recognised as fair wear and tear according to the published industry 
standards.
Ive also considered the VRS that were in place at the time Mrs H signed her hire agreement 
in October 2018. These say:
Wheels and Tyres  Scuffs, chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are not 
acceptable.
Dented bumpers and / or any dents penetrating through to the base material when 
painted are not acceptable.
Incompatible window etchings and non-factory fitted tinted glass is not acceptable.
Inner door  minor dents less than 13mm are acceptable.
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the evidence that MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that 
the areas of damage identified are indeed damaged outside fair wear and tear. The spokes 
of both wheels are scratched and scuffed; there is clear visible damage to the rear bumper 
and the inner rear door, and the tinted windows have not been returned to their supply state. 
So, I think the charges have been applied fairly.
Ive considered Mrs Hs inference that some of this unrelated damage took place after the 
vehicle was collected from her home, but I just dont think this is likely. I say this because 
MBFS appointed an independent third party, one that is recognised in the industry, to 
conduct an assessment. And although Mrs H says that when the car was collected, she was 
told it was in exceptional condition, I think its more likely than not that the nature of the 
identified damage wouldnt have been apparent until the car was thoroughly examined later. 
Finally, Ive noted Mrs Hs comments about the collection agent not providing confirmation of 
the charges prior to collecting the vehicle so that she would have the opportunity to consider 
repairing any damage herself. But I have to tell Mrs H that this wasnt the collection agents 
role. Their role was to collect the vehicle and document all damage. It was for MBFS to 
determine the level of charges and to provide Mrs H with an invoice once it had assessed 
the independent report.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mrs H to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman