DRN-4099618
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the way in which Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania 
Aseguradora S.A.U. trading as Telefonica Insurance UK Branch handled a claim made on 
her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Telefonica has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. 
Telefonica accepts that it couldve provided Miss B with better service including: 
providing better updates as to the progress of her claim, the process being followed, 
the delay to Miss Bs claim due to her phone being lost by the delivery provider and 
with the timescales being extended. It also accepts that, during one call, Miss Bs 
expectations were unfairly raised about the possibility of a different process being 
followed, which wasnt correct. 
Telefonica has offered Miss B £200 compensation. Miss B says she was without a 
phone for a number of weeks, she experiences high anxiety, and this impacted her 
mental health. She also says it affected her day-to-day activities, including her 
hobbies. Miss B also told Telefonica that shed recently had a baby and without a 
phone she was unable to contact people for support. 
I think it was fair and reasonable of Telefonica to investigate whether the 
replacement mobile phone had been delivered, particularly as it had received 
information showing that the delivery provider had been to her address. So, Miss B 
wouldve been without her phone whilst those investigations were completed. 
However, Telefonica accepts that there were delays so she was without her phone 
for longer than she reasonably ought to have been. 
Taking everything into account, I think £200 fair and reasonably reflects the distress 
and inconvenience Miss B experienced up until the date Telefonica issued its final 
response to Miss Bs complaint in early February 2023. 
Telefonica has provided evidence to show that payment of the £200 was made to 
Miss B towards the end of May 2023. Miss B doesnt recall this. Ive asked her to 
provide a bank statement from the time showing payments going into her account for 
this period. She hasnt done so. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that payment 
was most likely made to her. And I dont think Telefonica needs to do anything more 
in this case. However, Miss B is free to forward any documentary evidence directly to 
Telefonica showing she didnt receive payment into her account for it to consider. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman