DRN-2846566
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy TSB Bank Plc blocked her account without any explanation and wouldnt 
allow her access to her funds.
 
What happened
Miss Os account was blocked on 13 March 2020. Miss O and her partner visited branch on 
the Monday and werent given any explanation as to why the account was blocked or when 
Miss O would be able to access her money. They contacted their local MP and he wrote to 
TSB on Miss Os behalf. The MP explained that Miss O needed the money in her account to 
purchase a property and the delay could mean shed lose the house. 
TSB sent a final response letter on 19 March 2020 explaining that there was a processing 
delay and it couldnt give a cause for this or a timescale for when it would be resolved. But 
said it would let her know once it had been able to establish what the processing delay was. 
Miss Os account remained blocked until 22 April 2020 at which point it was lifted and Miss O 
could then access her account, and the money contained within it, in full. 
Miss O and her partner have explained the impact the block had on Miss O. Miss O found 
the whole situation extremely stressful and upsetting as she was worried shed lose the 
house purchase. Her regular standing orders and direct debits such as for her phone and 
rent didnt go through whilst the block was in place, and whilst her partner was able to 
ensure these were paid, problems stemmed from this such as her rent being paid twice. 
Miss O felt that TSB only responded and took action because her MP became involved. 
Otherwise it ignored her and wouldnt provide any explanation as to what was going on with 
her account. And whilst Miss Os partner hasnt included this as part of the complaint, he 
also mentioned that he thinks TSBs actions could stem from Miss Os nationality given how 
quickly a review of his account was conducted by his own bank. 
Miss O referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He explained that TSB was entitled to block the account and did so to adhere to its legal and 
regulatory obligations. He also concluded the review was done without any delays. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be appropriate for TSB to compensate Miss O for the trouble and 
upset she suffered. 
 
Miss O didnt agree. Her partner explained again the impact this had on Miss O, including 
the stress and frustration caused by the lack of access to her money. He said its not 
acceptable TSB can block an account for six weeks, admitting it was a processing delay on 
its end, but get away without compensating Miss O for the upset this caused. 
Because Miss O disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. And part of this might require it to restrict a customers access to an
account where appropriate. If TSB didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied TSB was within its rights to restrict Miss Os account and 
review it. And, having considered all the information available to me I can understand why 
TSB wanted to review the account and am satisfied it acted fairly in its actions. 
TSB wasnt obliged to tell Miss O why it had blocked the account or give a timescale for 
when it would be lifted. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. However, I 
will say that I don't think it was helpful that TSB told Miss O her account was blocked due to 
a processing delay. That implies there was an issue with a system or something similar. 
However, as explained, the block was to allow TSB to carry out a review. But in any event, 
as Ive explained, whats relevant here is TSBs statutory obligations allow it to block a 
customers accounts while it reviews things.
Miss O has explained how she was impacted by the restriction, so Ive looked at whether
TSB couldve acted any quicker than it did or done anything differently. I appreciate Miss O 
and her partner believe TSB had all the information it needed much earlier on. But from 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied the time taken was necessary and reasonable for TSB to 
conduct its review and meet its legal and regulatory obligations. And I cant agree that TSB 
only took steps to unblock the account once Miss Os MP contacted it. 
There is an argument TSB couldve allowed Miss O access to her wages and benefits whilst 
the block was in place. This may have allowed her to pay her bills manually. However, I dont 
believe this had a significant impact on Miss O that would warrant compensation, as her 
partner was able to step in and pay these bills for her. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to compensate Miss O for something that couldve happened.  
I understand there were some issues because the regular payments such as standing order 
and direct debits were returned during the period the account was blocked  for example 
Miss Os partner explained that the rent was paid twice. But as Ive explained, TSB didnt 
make an error in blocking the account, so I cant hold it responsible for this and any 
inconvenience caused. 
So, whilst I appreciate the block caused Miss O a significant degree of trouble
and upset, I cant say TSB made any mistakes that mean it should compensate her
for this. I understand Miss O found the whole situation extremely stressful, particularly 
because of the house purchase she was trying to make and Im very sorry to hear this, but 
the fact remains that TSB has legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to and its 
reasonable for it to take steps to ensure these are met.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint against TSB Bank Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sarah BrimacombeOmbudsman