DRN-2724535
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the 
money its lost to a scam. 
Ms S, who is a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.   
Whats happened?
B has been the victim of a scam.
On 28 November 2019, Bs bookkeeper, who Ill refer to as Ms A, received an email which 
appeared to come from Ms S and said Please pay the attached invoice for £8,486.57 as it is 
long overdue and let me know when done. Process as a same day payment. Ms A paid the 
invoice using online banking and confirmed that she had done so by replying to the email 
shed received.
On 29 November 2019, Ms A received a second email on the same email chain, apparently 
from Ms S. It said that the beneficiary hadnt received the payment and asked her to call 
HSBC to release it. The following emails were then sent and received:
Ms A: It seems the bank stopped the payment as they thought it was 
fraudulent!! 
I am now waiting to speak to the fraud department to see why?
Ms S: Tell them to release the payment as it is for a new vendor. I guess 
they do random checks with payments sometimes since the vendor is 
new. Let me know once payment is released and completed.
Ms A: When you get a chance can you call me please.
Ms S: What is the status of the payment? Im busy now to get to the phone. 
Let me know what the bank says.
Ms A: They did not pay it as they have asked me to call to make sure the 
Company is legitimate. I have tried emailing as per the email you sent 
me but the email was returned. I then called the number on the invoice 
and got through to a completely different company
Do you know this Company as when you google [name] they do not 
come up?
Ms S: I have verified the invoice myself, the [name] account is a Fiduciary 
account for [name]. The payment is for a project. Go ahead and take 
this as approval to process the payment. Send the payment and send 
me the payment confirmation once completed.
Ms A instructed the payment of £8,486.57 again on 29 November 2019 using online banking 
(the payment).
Unbeknown to Ms A, a fraudster had sent the emails from Ms S account, not Ms S. Ms S 
discovered the fraud when she was preparing Bs accounts some months later. She didnt 
recognise the payment and on further investigation, she discovered the fraudulent emails in 
a folder in her inbox.
Ms A has said that it was usual for Ms S to correspond with her via email, and to send 
invoices for payment via email at the time as she worked from home. The fraudulent emails 
came from Ms S correct email address, they copied Ms S style of writing and they were 
signed off as Ms S usually signs off her emails. So she never suspected that it wasnt 
actually Ms S sending the emails. Shes said that after speaking to HSBC, she did try to 
confirm the account details by calling the number on the invoice, and when she was unable 
to do so, she queried it with Ms S. Ms S, or so she thought, said shed verified the invoice 
herself, indicated that it was from a genuine company and asked for the payment to be 
made. Ms S is her boss, so she made the payment. HSBC suggested that she call the 
company the payment was being made to, but it didnt say anything about contacting Ms S.
Ms S says she is disappointed in HSBCs lack of interest and urgency in this matter.
What has HSBC said?
The payment input on 28 November 2019 was reversed by its fraud department as it couldnt 
get in touch with B to confirm it was genuine. HSBC wrote to B on the same day to explain 
its decision to stop the payment.
On 29 November 2019, HSBC asked Ms A to confirm the account details with the 
beneficiary in a telephone conversation, and it was assured that she would do so before 
making any further payments. 
The payment was re-input on 29 November 2019, but it appears that no further or proper 
checks were carried out prior to making the payment despite Ms As apparent concerns.
The payment didnt flag up for another fraud check as Ms A had confirmed it was genuine 
and had been given advice to check the beneficiary account details before putting the 
payment through again in its telephone conversation with her.  
HSBC contacted the receiving bank when Ms S reported the fraud. £5,583.95 was recovered 
from the beneficiary account and returned to B in January 2021.
HSBC has paid £100 in compensation for the service it has provided in this case. 
What did our investigator say?  
Our investigator listened to a recording of the conversation HSBC had with Ms A on           
29 November 2019 and, overall, he wasnt satisfied that the warning HSBC gave in the 
relevant parts of the call was impactful enough to be considered an effective warning in the 
circumstances of this scam under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). He said, in summary:
Ms A told HSBC that shed received the invoice she was paying in an attachment on 
an email from her boss. HSBC proposed that she check the account details with the 
company that sent the invoice before making any payment, but it didnt advise her to 
check the source of the emailed invoice  in this case, Ms S.
Ms A didnt ignore HSBCs warning to confirm the account details with the company 
the invoice was from. She tried to contact the company on the number given on the 
invoice, and this gave rise to some doubts. But HSBC hadnt warned her that Ms S emails may not be genuine. So the warning to check the beneficiary account details 
had less impact in the specific circumstances because it didnt mention that the 
emails Ms A was receiving from Ms S may be fraudulent. And she wasnt told what to 
do to avoid this particular scam.
Our investigator also thought that Ms A had a reasonable basis for belief. He accepted that it 
wasnt unusual for Ms S to send large invoices to Ms A for payment via email at the time. 
And he didnt think Ms A could reasonably be expected to have been aware  without a 
specific warning  that a fraudster could have hacked into Ms S email account and sent the 
emails. He was satisfied that Ms A took reasonable care by raising the issue with Ms S when 
she didnt get through to the company she expected to in attempting to confirm the account 
details, and she received what she reasonably accepted as appropriate confirmation from 
Ms S  as far as she was concerned, Ms S had verified the account details. Overall, our 
investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Ms A to believe she was corresponding with 
Ms S, or to follow what she thought was her employers direct instructions to make the 
payment after verifying the account details herself.
He concluded that HSBC should have reimbursed B under the CRM Code. 
HSBCs response
HSBC didnt agree. It said, in summary:
SF1(2) of the CRM Code requires it to take reasonable steps in providing effective 
warnings when a risk has been identified, which should include appropriate actions 
for customers to take to protect themselves. HSBC doesnt think our investigators 
findings are in line with that requirement and maintains that it met these 
requirements. 
The warning it gave was tailored to the scam risk in accordance with SF1(2)(c) of the 
CRM Code.
Consistent with SF1(2)(d) of the CRM Code, HSBCs warning made it clear that Ms A 
should call the recipient company to confirm the bank details on the invoice were 
correct before re-processing the payment. Ms A understood what needed to be done 
and she assured HSBC she would follow its advice. But the suggestion it made was 
not properly carried out. If it had been, that would have prevented the fraud 
regardless of any other checks it could have suggested.
HSBC had no reason to believe that Ms A wasnt talking directly to Ms S, to lead it to 
a concern that emails from Ms S might not be genuine. So it concentrated on the 
source of the original payment request when providing its warning.
B did not have a reasonable belief that the payee was who it expected to pay, that it 
was paying for a genuine service or that the person or business it was transacting 
with was legitimate. Ms A knew that the telephone number on the invoice didnt relate 
to the person or company the invoice was from. There was clear evidence that there 
was something amiss with the invoice and it was not reasonable to discount the 
warning signs based on an explanation provided over email which did not stack up. A 
reasonable person would have contacted HSBC again after calling the number on 
the invoice and reaching a different company to the one they expected to reach, or 
they would have telephoned their boss before making the payment again.
B is HSBCs customer, not Ms S or Ms A. B is a commercial customer and should 
reasonably be expected to be vigilant of fraud. It should also be aware of email 
diversion scams.
HSBC has not had sight of Bs internal procedures for approval of payments to 
assess whether the exception at R2(1)(d) of the CRM Code applies. In addition, the 
investigator has simply accepted Bs say so that the payment was made in the normal way it pays its invoices and hasnt analysed whether the companys internal 
procedures were adequate.
B consistently maintained a healthy credit balance in its account before and after the 
payment was made, and it wasnt aware it had been scammed for some time. HSBC 
doesnt think applying 8% simple interest to any award is fair in the circumstances.
Our investigator remained of the view that this complaint should be upheld, but he accepted 
HSBCs argument about the rate of interest that should be applied to any award. And he said 
that, as HSBC couldve prevented the scam if it had gone further in its explanation about 
how email interception and hacking works, interest should be payable from the date of loss. 
His final recommendation was that HSBC should reimburse the payment, less any amount 
recovered from the beneficiary account, and pay interest at the account rate from the date of 
loss to the date of payment.
As HSBC still didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one B has been a 
victim of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has argued that three of the 
exceptions apply in this case  it says that B: 
ignored an effective warning it gave during the payment journey.
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the 
person it was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services 
and/or the person or business it was transacting with was legitimate.
did not follow its own internal procedures for approval of payments, and those 
procedures would have been effective in preventing the scam.
I appreciate that B is HSBCs customer, but in deciding this case, I think its fair to consider 
Ms As state of mind, as the employee that spoke to HSBC and made the payment.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria 
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on 
the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.Ive listened to a recording of the conversation Ms A had with HSBC on 29 November 2019 
and transcribed the relevant parts of the call as follows:
Agent: How did you receive the bank details of the beneficiary, was it through email 
or a paper invoice?
Ms A: It was through an invoice.
Agent: Is that an invoice attached in an email, that is?
Ms A: Yes.
Agent: OK, thats the main concern we have
Agent: Since you also mentioned that you have received this information through 
email, before you make any future transfers or you are intending to submit the 
transfer again, it would be best if you try and contact this company first to 
check if the details youve received by email matches the actual account.
Ms A: Well its my boss that sent it to me and she is happy for it to be paid. She told 
me that maybe because its a new vendor.
Agent: Yes, its a new vendor, exactly, but then again has your boss checked if this is 
an actual account of this vendor and not someone elses account perhaps?
Ms A: I havent got a clue to be quite honest.
Agent: Yes exactly. Now the thing is, if you know this company for example, why 
dont you call this company and confirm if the sort code and account number 
matches their actual account. So that way before any transfer is made at least 
you are confident that you were able to confirm this so they wont turn you 
back and say you never called and checked the details were correct, in the 
case it turns out that the details were wrong, for example, and the money 
went to a fraudsters account OK?
Ms A: YepBut basically you will not make the payment again anyway, will 
you?...So if we need to, we have to set it up again?
Agent: if you want we can do it for you but then again if it turns out the details were 
wrong for example or it turns out it would go to a fraudsters account, HSBC 
wont be held liable for any loss if youre requesting a transfer to a suspicious 
or with incorrect banking details for that matter. Butif you want to check 
further you can actually call the customer and then see if  check with them if 
the bank details is indeed matching their actual account and then you can do 
this again online.
Ms A: Ill call them.
Im not satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met in this 
case. Overall, I dont think the warning HSBC gave B was impactful or specific enough to be 
considered an effective warning under the terms of the CRM Code.
I think its clear the Agent realised there was a risk of email interception here, but I dont 
think they made this risk obvious to Ms A. They said Ms A should check the payees account 
details matched the details on the invoice received, and check this is an actual account for 
the payee and not someone elses account, but they didnt make it clear why she should do 
this. They never mentioned that the email Ms A had received may have been sent by a 
fraudster, nor did they say that the email Ms S had seemingly received from the payee may 
have been intercepted by a fraudster before it was forwarded to Ms A. They did not talk 
about the prevalence of this type of scam or explain that email interception scams can be 
very sophisticated; emails can appear genuine and look like they come from the correct 
email address. Im not persuaded that a reasonable person would properly recognise the 
scam risk from what the Agent said, or fully understand what actions they needed to take to 
protect themselves from this type of scam. I think its more likely theyd believe they were 
checking the account details to ensure they werent paying an incorrect account or bogus 
company.The circumstances of the scam made the warning even less effective. I appreciate that 
HSBC told Ms A she needed to call the payee to check the account details matched those 
on the invoice, and I think its clear Ms A understood this advice. But from what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that she didnt appreciate the risk of Ms S emails being sent by a fraudster, or 
indeed the original email that Ms S supposedly received. If the Agent had really brought to 
life what a scam of this nature could look like  how a fraudster can pose as someone else 
and send emails from their email address  then I think this wouldve been important 
information in the context of this scam that wouldve affected Ms As decision making. Armed 
with specific and impactful information, I think its reasonable to assume Ms A wouldve 
taken additional steps to protect Bs assets, such as speaking to Ms S on the telephone 
instead of being reassured by an email from Ms S saying shed checked the invoice herself.
Looking at everything, I dont think the warning HSBC gave was sufficiently specific or 
impactful. In my view, the warning wasnt likely to affect a customers decision making in a 
manner whereby the likelihood of this scam succeeding was reduced.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Ms A had a reasonable basis for belief for largely 
the same reasons as our investigator. I accept that there were warning signs when Ms A 
attempted to use the contact details on the invoice. But she raised her concerns with who 
she thought was Ms S and she was assured that Ms S had checked the invoice details 
herself. As Ive set out above, HSBC didnt warn Ms A that she may be talking to a fraudster 
instead of Ms S, and I dont think its unreasonable that she was reassured by the email she 
received from who she thought was her employer. Ms A has said that the emails she 
received came from Ms S correct email address, they copied Ms S style of writing and they 
were signed off as Ms S usually signs off her emails. So she never suspected that it wasnt 
actually Ms S sending the emails. Overall, the fraud was sophisticated, and I can understand 
why it went undetected by Ms A.
HSBC has said that B is its customer, not Ms S or Ms A, and B is a commercial customer so 
it should reasonably be expected to be vigilant of fraud. But I dont think its unreasonable 
that the fraud went undetected by B in the circumstances. From what Ive seen, B is just a 
small business. I havent seen any evidence that HSBC tried to educate B on the type of 
fraud it fell victim to prior to the scam. This might have been prudent, especially as so many 
businesses fall victim to email intercept scams. And, as Ive set out above, Im not satisfied 
that HSBC gave an effective warning under the CRM Code in this case. So overall, Im not 
persuaded that B should reasonably be expected to have had an understanding of this type 
of fraud and how to protect itself against it.
HSBC says it hasnt had sight of Bs internal procedures for approval of payments to assess 
whether the exception at R2(1)(d) of the CRM Code applies. If HSBC considered this 
evidence pivotal to its case, then in my view it should have requested and considered it prior 
to deciding not to reimburse B. Ms S has said that B is a small business and it doesnt have 
written internal procedures for approval of payment. I think this is reasonable and accept 
what shes said. Both Ms S and Ms A have said it was and is usual for Ms S to send invoices 
for payment to Ms A via email because Ms A works from home. Ive seen evidence of this in 
the form of other invoices emailed for payment before the scam took place. I also 
understand that Ms A had authority to make payments from Bs account at the time. So Im 
persuaded that the payment was made in the usual way. 
To conclude, Im satisfied that HSBC should have refunded the money B lost under the 
terms of the CRM Code. I am not satisfied that any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I think HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. It didnt 
go far enough in explaining the type of scam B was at risk of falling victim to and how they tend to work. If it had told Ms A that the email she and/or Ms S had received may have been 
from a fraudster, then I think this wouldve affected her decision making and she wouldve 
taken additional steps that wouldve led to the scam unravelling.
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, rather than just 
reimbursed B under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that HSBC should pay B 
interest from the date of the loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund B under the 
CRM Code. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
reimburse Bs outstanding loss within 28 days of receiving notification of acceptance 
of my final decision; plus
pay interest at the account rate on that sum, compounded from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman