DRN-4331872
The complaint
Mr C and Miss C complain that they were misled into taking out an agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) to acquire a new car.
What happened
Mr C and Miss C acquired a new car using a finance agreement with MBFS. Mr C and Miss 
C had issues with it and it was agreed, among other things, for the car to be rejected under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Mr C and Miss C also said that it was agreed the 
exact same car would be sourced to replace the one which had been rejected.
In April 2021, Mr C and Miss C acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. They believed it to be the same as the one they previously acquired and later 
rejected. 
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr C and Miss C said they noticed the ambient lighting in the 
headrests were not working and the ambient lighting on the dashboard intermittently stopped 
working.
Mr C and Miss C said they contacted the supplying dealership about both issues. They said 
they were told a soon to be released part would resolve the issue with the lighting in general 
and also fix the ambient lighting in the headrest. Many months passed and in July 2022, the 
part was repaired. Unfortunately, the relevant part repaired didnt resolve the ambient 
lighting issue in the headrests.
Mr C and Miss C complained to MBFS. They said it later transpired that the car was no 
longer sold with ambient lighting in the headrest and as such, believed they were mis-sold it. 
MBFS looked into retrofitting the ambient lighting in to the headrest, but they confirmed this 
was not possible due to vehicle wiring.
Mr C and Miss C referred their complaint to our service. Mr C and Miss C said they wanted 
the deposit they paid of £3,000 refunded to be compensated for the lights in the headrests 
missing. They explained that if they were told the car didnt have ambient lighting in the 
headrests in April 2021, they would have rejected the car at the time. They said they would 
have acquired the model lower which was cheaper.
Mr C and Miss C confirmed that they have since settled their agreement with MBFS.
Our investigator issued his opinion where he found MBFS didnt need to take any action. In 
summary, he said that he hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr C and Miss C had asked 
MBFS whether the car came with ambient lighting in the headrests. He went on to explain 
that he has reviewed several marketing brochures and they dont specify that ambient 
lighting is present in the headrest. So, in terms of specification, he concluded the car was the 
same as previously supplied to them and didnt think MBFS had made a false statement of 
fact or the agreement was mis-sold to them on that basis.
Mr C and Miss C disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
There are aspects of Mr C and Miss Cs complaint I havent commented on  and thats 
deliberate. What follows are my comments on what I believe to be the main points to resolve 
this complaint in a fair way; namely, were Mr C and Miss C misled into taking out the finance 
agreement with MBFS.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that, under certain 
circumstances, finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said by a credit 
broker or supplier before the consumer takes out the credit agreement.
It is clear in this case that the loan partly financed the purchase of the car. The company that 
sold the car was the dealership. I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was 
set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between MBFS and the supplying dealership 
and that section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act therefore applies.
Mr C and Miss C complain they were misled into taking out a finance agreement with MBFS 
as they were told the car acquired was exactly the same as one they previously returned. So 
Ive considered if a misrepresentation occurred here.
I would consider a misrepresentation to have taken place if Mr C and Miss C were told a 
false statement of fact that induced them into entering into the agreement they otherwise 
would not have. So ultimately, what I need to firstly consider is whether Mr C and Miss C 
were told that the car would have ambient lighting in its headrest.
Mr C and Miss C believes the car they were supplied should have come with ambient 
lighting in the headrests due to her previous car having it. But what I need to consider is 
whether they were told this specific car they acquired would have ambient lighting in the 
headrests.
From evidence provided, I cant see that MBFS told Mr C and Miss C that there would be 
ambient lighting in the headrest, nor is there any suggestion Mr C and Miss C specifically 
asked MBFS whether it would be present. I also dont think MBFS were aware how 
important ambient lighting in the headrests were to Mr C and Miss C before they acquired 
the car.
I have also reviewed sales brochures that would have been available to Mr C and Miss C 
when they acquired their car. While they do describe the car having ambient lighting  which 
isnt in doubt the car had  it doesnt specifically say ambient lighting is present in the 
headrests. The images within the brochure also dont show ambient lighting present in the 
headrests, but only in areas along the dashboard, for example.
So, I dont think a false of statement was made to Mr C and Miss C and it follows I dont think 
the agreement they took out with MBFS was misrepresented.
Ive also considered whether the CRA is relevant to this complaint. The CRA explains under 
a contract to supply goods, the supplier  MBFS here, has a responsibility to make sure goods match a description. But as Ive already said, the goods supplied match the 
description provided in its sales brochures. So, Im not persuaded the car didnt meet the 
description given.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman