DRN-4459802
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mrs W was provided with a credit card account with a credit limit of £6,200 in July 2021. She 
says that this credit limit shouldnt have been provided as it was unaffordable and that if 
Virgin Money had carried out proper credit checks it would have realised this. Mrs W says 
that when the credit card was provided, she had a large overdraft that she couldnt clear and 
was using overdraft facilities on her other accounts. She said she had taken out a lot of 
credit within a short space of time and that had her bank statements been reviewed Virgin 
Money would have seen she had a problem with gambling.
Virgin Money didnt agree it had been irresponsible in its lending to Mrs W and issued a final 
response letter dated 18 April 2023. It said that information gained through the application 
process showed Mrs W had a household income of £85,000. It explained that it used a 
combination of factors when reviewing an application including the information provided in 
the application and information received from the credit reference agencies. It said based on 
its assessment an appropriate and affordable amount of credit was provided.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that given the size of the credit limit it 
would have been proportionate for Virgin Money to have verified Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances before lending. He said that had this happened Virgin Money would have 
realised Mrs W was gambling heavily.
Virgin Money acknowledged that Mrs W was gambling but said that it had no reason to 
request Mrs Ws bank statements and that in this case its normal application checks were 
reasonable given the size of the credit limit compared to Mrs Ws income of £52,000. It said 
its credit check showed no adverse data and only £1,310 in unsecured debt and that Mrs W 
gave it no indication of having a gambling issue.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Mrs W applied to Virgin Money for a credit card account. As part of the application, Mrs W 
said that she was employed with an annual income of £52,000 and that the household 
income was £85,000. Her monthly rent/mortgage was recorded as £500. A credit check was 
carried out which showed Mrs W had nine active accounts with no new accounts opened 
within the preceding three months. She had total unsecured debt of £1,310 and no defaults 
or other adverse data recorded.
Having considered the outcome of the credit check I do not find that this showed signs that 
Mrs W was struggling financially. I note Mrs Ws comment about taking out lots of credit 
within a short space of time and having looked through the credit report she has provided I 
can see that she did take out other credit around the time of her application to Virgin Money. 
But as the new credit wasnt shown on her credit file at the time Virgin Money carried out its 
checks and the credit check showed no new accounts opened in the previous three months, 
I cannot say it should have been aware that Mrs W was taking on more debt at the time.
Given the size of the credit limit I think that it was important that Mrs Ws income was 
verified, and I can see that this happened. Virgin Money also confirmed that it was Mrs Ws 
income (not the household income) that was used in its assessment, and I think this is 
reasonable.
Based on Mrs Ws income and taking into account her other credit commitments as identified 
through the credit check, her declared rent/ mortgage payment, and noting that an amount 
was included in the assessment for essential expenditure I find it reasonable that Virgin 
Money considered a credit limit of £6,200 as affordable for Mrs W. While I note the account 
was opened with a £5,000 money transfer promotional offer, I do not find that this meant that 
further verification was needed.
Therefore, having considered the size of the credit limit compared to Mrs Ws income, that 
her credit check didnt raise concerns and noting her other declared costs, I think the checks 
carried out by Virgin Money before the account was opened were reasonable.
I can see that Mrs W was gambling heavily at the time of the application and had Virgin 
Money requested copies of her bank statements it would have seen this. But in this case, I 
find that the checks undertaken by Virgin Money were proportionate and as these didnt 
raise concerns about the affordability of the lending and there was nothing identified through 
the checks that should have alerted Virgin Money to the issue Mrs W had with gambling, I do 
not find I can say that Virgin Money was wrong to provide the credit card with a £6,200 credit 
limit.
Mrs W responded to my provisional decision saying that there was no mention that Virgin 
would have been able to see that she had an overdraft facility of £6,000 which she was 
making extensive use of and that she had exceeded her limit on in the previous months. She 
also said that when she requested the Virgin card, she requested an immediate cash 
transfer which should have raised concerns and that her first annual statements showed she 
had taken several cash advances and money transfers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt a specific set of checks that a lender is required to carry out, but the lender must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness and affordability. Affordability 
checks need to be proportionate taking into consideration factors such as  but not limited to 
 the size of the loan, the repayments, what the lender knew about the consumer, and the 
things the consumer told it about their circumstances.
I understand why Mrs W feels the lending was irresponsible, but I have to consider whether 
the checks carried out by Virgin Money were reasonable and if so whether these raised 
concerns that the lending shouldnt have been provided. I note Mrs Ws comments about her 
overdraft and from her bank statements I can see that she was making use of her overdraft 
around the time of the application in July 2021, but she hadnt been making use of it in the preceding two months. Having looked through the results of Virgin Moneys credit check this 
didnt suggest that Mrs W was struggling financially and based on her verified income, I find 
the checks it undertook were reasonable. I noted in my provisional decision the money 
transfer that Mrs W requested at application and as I said I do not find this is enough to say 
that further checks were needed. In this case, I agree that had Mrs Ws bank statements 
been assessed as part of the application process these would have raised concerns about 
her financial circumstances. But, in this case I do not find that Virgin Money was required to 
request these, and I think its checks were reasonable. As these didnt suggest that Mrs W 
was struggling financially or that the lending wasnt affordable, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman