DRN-2390613
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited wrongly advised her to take 
out additional voluntary contributions when she could have purchased additional years on 
her occupational pension scheme instead.
What happened
Mrs A was sold a Teachers Additional Voluntary Contributions (TAVC) policy by Prudential in 
1991. At the time she was working as a teacher and had been a member of the teachers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) since 1986.
Mrs A had a break from teaching in the UK and signed up to the TAVC for a second time in 
1996.
As a member of her OPS she was eligible to purchase Past Additional Years (PAY) of 
service to be counted towards her benefit at retirement age. 
Mrs A used a claims management company (CMC) to complain to Prudential that she was 
mis-sold TAVCs. They say that she wasnt made aware of the PAY option and that she 
wouldve been better advised to have opted for that rather than the TAVC. Mrs As 
representative explained that Prudential failed to understand Mrs As circumstances, her 
needs in retirement or her attitude to risk.
Prudential didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. Prudential explained that they were appointed by 
the equivalent of the Department for Education in 1989 to provide the TAVC scheme. 
Prudential said that their advisers were required to make customers aware of other options 
but werent allowed to advise on the PAY option.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought that the point of 
sale information that Prudential had provided had indicated that PAY was an alternative to 
the TAVC they could provide. He explained that Prudential werent independent financial 
advisers so would only provide advice on the product that they offered.
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators view so the matter was passed for an ombudsmans 
decision. I issued a provisional decision on this case in order to give both parties an 
opportunity to consider my opinion and respond.
What I said in my provisional findings
Mrs A has explained that she attended a presentation from a Prudential representative about 
the TAVC scheme. Which led to a meeting where she signed up to the TAVC scheme. Mrs A 
provides no other recollections of the sale process though. This is understandable given that 
it occurred 28 years prior to the complaint being raised. When the sale took place in 1991 
Prudentials advisor wasnt required to keep a record of everything discussed in the meeting 
either, so its not possible for me to know what was discussed at the time.
Prudential were a tied adviser and so wouldnt have been able to advise Mrs A on her option 
of buying added years and they wouldnt have had to do a price comparison of the two 
options as the CMC suggests. In this case Prudential were providing a limited service in the 
provision of their TAVC scheme for Mrs As OPS. The option to purchase added years 
wasnt their product to advise on. But the rules at the time meant that Prudential still had to 
make sure that their product was generally suitable to her needs and that she was aware of 
her options, including PAY.
Prudential have provided us with the application form for the TAVC that Mrs A signed in 
October 1991. Theres a section on the form entitled Pension Scheme Details. It provided 
an opportunity to indicate if the applicant had other pension contributions or benefits. There 
was a question about PAY as well as one about Free-Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC). On Mrs As application form this section is crossed out.
The CMC suggests this means Mrs A wasnt informed about those options. Im not 
convinced that I can draw that conclusion. I cant say that the section wasnt crossed out 
simply because the areas werent applicable, as Mrs A wasnt making those contributions. 
Neither can I really say that the questions on the form did more than serve to identify if other 
contributions were already being made. This would have been relevant to the level of 
contributions that Mrs A could have made to the TAVC scheme. So Im not sure that those 
questions on the form serve to prove that Mrs A was adequately informed about her 
alternatives.
Mrs A hasnt provided any documentary information from the sale, so the only 
documentation I have to rely on in making a decision is what Ive been shown by Prudential. 
Prudential have provided us with copies of point of sale information that would have been 
relevant in 1991. That document - entitled Top up your pension with AVCs - doesnt 
mention alternatives to the TAVC. So I cant say, based on the evidence, that Prudential 
informed Mrs A about the PAY option.
Ive considered the likely impact on Mrs A of Prudential failing to draw her attention to the 
PAY option in 1991. Whilst it is difficult to know what Mrs A may have done so long ago, in 
this case Mrs A had a break in her teaching career, returning to teaching in 1996. So Ive 
looked at what happened then too.
Mrs As application for the TAVC scheme in 1996 was on a different type of form than in 
1991. The declaration prior to her signature included the statement, I confirm that I have 
received a separate document outlining the features, likely benefits and costs for each of the 
products for which I have agreed that a quotation should be provided. And Prudential have 
shown us a copy of the 1996 document entitled Additional Voluntary Contributions for 
Teachers. This document included the statement:
Within the Teachers Superannuation Scheme there are two ways to make AVCs:
The added years facility which allows you to buy extra years of service.
The Prudential Additional Voluntary Contribution facility specially designed for 
teachers.
So, whilst the evidence that Prudential made Mrs A aware of her options in 1991 isnt clear, 
the evidence of when she re-joined the scheme in 1996 is more persuasive. So I think that in 
1996 Mrs A would have been aware that she could have purchased additional years instead 
of contributing to TAVCs.
Mrs A was faced with an almost identical choice about how to supplement her OPS in 1996,
as she was in 1991. In that case I think that it was more likely than not that Mrs A had been
told about the PAY option. And Mrs A still chose to make contributions to the TAVC instead.
So I dont think its likely that Mrs A would have purchased additional years in 1991 either,even if Prudential had made that option clear at the time.
Mrs A was also concerned that Prudential didnt have adequate regard to her circumstances
in advising her on that sale. Prudential have shown us that in both 1991 and again in 1996
they conducted financial reviews with Mrs A. The information completed shows that
Prudential did what was required in both instances to understand Mrs As circumstances.
Given that the purpose of the advice was to look at Mrs As provision in retirement, I cant
conclude that the TAVC was an unsuitable product to recommend. And in the case of both
reviews the level of contributions agreed seemed affordable to Mrs A.
The TAVC scheme involved the investment of Mrs As contributions into a with-profits fund. 
The CMC questions whether Prudential understood her attitude to risk for her investment. In 
1991 the obligations on Prudentials adviser would have been set out in LAUTROs Code of 
Conduct. These rules didnt mean that Prudentials adviser had to formerly document 
Mrs As attitude to risk.
The with-profits fund that was selected was one of a number of fund options chosen by the 
trustees of the Teachers Pension Scheme. With-profits funds are generally considered to 
represent a lower risk than investments that are linked directly to the stock market. This is 
because:
with-profits funds usually include a mixture of assets, including those that are more 
secure;
when determining the value of bonuses, providers apply a process of "smoothing". 
This means money is kept back in years when investment returns are high to support 
bonus payments in years where investment returns are lower; and 
annual bonuses cannot usually be taken away once they have been added. 
For these reasons, with-profits funds are usually considered to be suitable for most
consumers, including those with a more cautious attitude to risk. So, based on the
information I have I dont think the choice of fund for Mrs As TAVC policy was unsuitable.
The response to my provisional findings
Mrs As representative has accepted my provisional findings and offered no additional 
evidence. Prudential have offered no response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I explained above, I think that Prudential may not have provided Mrs A with 
clear enough information about the availability of alternative ways to increase her pension 
when she was sold the TAVCs in 1991. But its not the role of our service to penalise 
businesses where theyve made mistakes. We arent the industry regulator. Our role is to try 
to resolve each complaint, on a case by case basis, in a fair and reasonable way.
Having determined that there may have been a mistake here, Ive had to decide if that 
mistake was likely to have caused Mrs A any detriment. For the same reasons that I 
explained in my provisional findings, I dont think that it did. I think its more likely than not 
that Mrs A would have still chosen to buy the TAVC, in the same way that she did in 1996 
when I think her options were explained to her quite clearly.Regarding assessing the suitability of the TAVCs for Mrs A, for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision, I dont think Prudential did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman