DRN-2173356
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. dealt with his buy-to-let mortgage 
account. He says a mistake in the way his interest rate was changed led to him paying more 
interest than he should and so various fees should be removed.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2018 a remediation exercise was completed by Platform (the original 
mortgage lender). That was because the mortgage offer stated Platform will review the 
Bank of England Base Rate on the 10th of each month. Any change to the interest rate will 
apply from your next interest payment date after each review. The interest payment date for 
Mr G was the 25th of the month. In error the interest rate change only took effect on the 1st of 
the following month each time, so about a week later than it should have. This meant that if 
the base rate increased Mr G was undercharged interest, and if the base rate decreased he 
was overcharged interest.
Over the nine years in question, Mr G was overcharged a total of £106.63 interest.
Having reviewed the full transaction history, the fees on the account, and the interest that 
was overcharged Im satisfied that all the fees that were incurred would still have been 
incurred had Mr Gs interest rate been changed on the correct date. That is, at no time was 
an interest overcharge the reason a fee was incurred. Thats because most of Mr Gs fees 
were because either his direct debit was returned unpaid or he didnt make a payment for 
that month.
From there I undertook a general overview of the fees incurred over the years and having 
done so Im pleased to see JPMorgan said it would arrange for four unpaid direct debit fees 
and one returned cheque fee to be reversed. But I dont think JPMorgan needs to go any 
further than that. Im satisfied any remaining fees were reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because they were charged in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage account and, based on the conduct of that account, were applied fairly.
Mr G has said the fees were unfair because the account was in credit. Each fee that was 
incurred around the time when Mr G was overcharged interest was incurred because Mr G 
didnt make a payment or because his direct debit was returned unpaid. Even if Mr Gs 
account had been in credit at that time (and to give some context the largest single 
overcharge was £27.67, so was a small percentage of his normal monthly payment) that 
doesnt mean the normal monthly payments can be missed. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied JPMorgan doesnt need to reverse any fees other 
than those it had already identified, and so I make no order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman