DRN-3337837
The complaint
Mr R complains that BG Insurance Limited (BG) declined a claim under his home emergency 
policy. He says BG said certain repairs hadnt been covered by his policy since 2016, but it 
hadnt advised him of this. He would like his excess premiums refunded.
What happened
Mr R moved into his home in 2010 and arranged a home emergency policy with BG. This 
provided for an annual service and repairs to his central heating system and boiler. BG 
carried out services and occasional repairs to the boiler and heating system. On 15 July 
2020 BG attended regarding a problem with a radiator not warming up properly. BG said the 
problem was caused by sludge in the heating system. It said sludge wasnt covered by the 
policy and said it would prepare a quote to powerflush the system. It subsequently said that 
the system wasnt suitable for powerflushing. Mr R complained about this noting the policy 
Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) under a section headed Whats not covered said:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris, if weve told you before that 
you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a 
similar process, but you havent done so
Mr R said hed not been advised to make improvements or have the system flushed so he 
thought the repair should be covered. After some confusion BG said it had advised there 
was a problem with sludge in September 2016 when it had replaced the pump. It said it was 
now unable to cover water bearing parts of your system, but as a gesture of goodwill it said 
it would install a new radiator for free if Mr R purchased it.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service saying BG hadnt advised or given him any 
paperwork about a powerflush and if it had hed have acted on it. He said BG had done work 
on the water bearing parts of the system on 15 July 2020 when it changed a radiator valve. 
He queried why it would do this if it had previously advised sludge was causing problems 
and needed to be dealt with. He said it wasnt fair that hed been paying for a policy since 
2016 that he couldnt claim on and his premiums hadnt been adjusted to reflect that.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and she said it should be upheld.
She said it was difficult to comment on what may or may not have been said back in 2016, 
but on balance it probably was mentioned as BGs notes recorded it at the time. So, it was 
fair for BG to say the repair wasnt covered by the policy. She said BG had confirmed Mr Rs 
system wasnt suitable to be powerflushed due to the design of the boiler as well as the 
microbore pipes. And as there was no other way to clean the system of sludge Mr R wouldnt 
have been able to take action to ensure he was covered by the policy.
Our investigator said it was fair that BG should refund some of the premiums Mr R had paid 
since September 2016 by working out what level of cover he could have actually benefited 
from such as an annual service only.  
BG disagreed. It said it had been advising for many years that the system should be 
replaced in view of its age and inefficiency. Our investigator said BG had continued servicing 
the system for around 10 years after its notes record it advised replacement. It said Mr R 
was aware of these issues and said its terms and conditions (T&Cs) were clear. It said it 
didnt make refunds of premium if parts of the policy couldnt be used, but many repairs were 
still possible.
As BG doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
BG says its T&Cs are clear about sludge and I think they are. But what is less clear is how it 
communicated important information to Mr R about what his policy offered in the 
circumstances of his central heating system and how it changed as age related issues 
developed. 
BGs engineers complete a system note about any work undertaken and recommendations 
made. The notes record advice was given to replace the boiler on several occasions since 
2010 and in 2016 say advised on sludge/boiler. Mr R says that didnt happen or he would 
have acted at the time. The note doesnt record that powerflushing wasnt possible.
BG says Mr R had:
made an informed decision to continue with the policy under the terms  and we 
dont refund parts of the policy that can no longer be used in this case, where advice 
has not been taken to remove sludge and scale.
I dont think its reasonable to say Mr R had made an informed decision, in part because BG 
has now confirmed that powerflushing wasnt possible due to the design of the boiler as well 
as the microbore pipe. And whilst the engineer might have said a powerflush was needed in 
2016, BG only seems to have confirmed in writing that it wouldnt cover the water bearing 
parts of your system in its final response letter rejecting Mr Rs complaint. If BG had made a 
change to the terms of the policy, as it effectively says it had above, I think its fair that Mr R 
be notified of it.
Before Mr Rs policy anniversary each year renewal documents are sent by BG setting out 
the premium and the basis of the cover. The renewal dated 10 June 2020 contained the 
following:
Our records show that your boiler is (make and model) 
Your boiler's manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler
a while ago. They're still making the most important parts for your boiler,
some other parts are becoming difficult to source
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but we'll
do our best to keep it running for as long as possible
In the unlikely event we can't fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund
back dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your
agreement - whichever's the most recent
Whilst this specifically refers to the boiler, it outlines possible limitations on the policy cover 
due to limited parts availability. I think this is a reasonable thing for BG to do. It lets the 
customer know that due to situations beyond BGs control, repairs might not be possible. It 
reduces ambiguity about what may or may not have been said and understood during an 
engineers visit  possibly many years before. 
Mr Rs policy provided cover for the whole central heating system, not just the boiler and BG 
did advise Mr R of possible limitations in his cover due to parts availability. So, I think its 
reasonable that it should also have confirmed to him of the actual limitations applying to the cover of water bearing parts of the central heating system from 2016.  Had it, Mr R would 
have been able to make an informed decision about the merits of the policy. 
Mr R could have assessed the benefit of paying for a policy for the entire heating system 
when the potential for actual repairs to be made beyond the boiler would seem remote. He 
might have decided to opt for a lower cost product from BG that just covered the boiler for 
repairs, or for annual servicing only, or looked for alternative cover elsewhere. As he didnt, I 
think that suggests that Mr R wasnt fully aware of the limitations. And, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr R has paid for cover he couldnt benefit from since 2016.
So, I dont think BG has treated Mr R reasonably.
Putting things right
BG has provided some services to Mr R under the policy since 2016. So, I think its fair that 
BG should recalculate the premiums it has charged since the coverage of the policy 
changed in 2016 to reflect what cover was actually available in the circumstances. It should 
make the appropriate refund to Mr R with 8% interest simple per year added. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to recalculate the premiums on the policy to reflect the 
cover actually available to Mr R since September 2016 and to refund the difference to him 
with 8% interest simple per year added.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also give 
a certificate showing this if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman