DRN-4304083
The complaint
Ms P has complained that ETU Forsikring A/S (ETU) unreasonably and unfairly increased 
the premium for her pet insurance policy from £1,144.45 per year in 2021 to £4,586.75 per 
year in 2022. 
What happened
Ms P bought her pet policy through another company which provided lifetime cover of vet 
fees up to £8,000 per year. ETU are the present underwriters of this policy and came on 
board just as Ms P was to renew her policy.
 
So, Ms P complained about the extent of the increase in premium. Initially she was told the 
premium calculation was wrong. But then it was eventually confirmed as being correct. 
ETU said it calculated the premium increase correctly in accordance with its underwriting 
guide. It explained consequently that Ms P hadnt been singled out and treated differently to 
anyone else in her position given previous claims. 
Ms P said she simply couldnt afford this premium so had to change insurers. Her dog 
needed an operation costing up to £10,000 which her new insurer wouldnt cover as it now 
related to a pre-existing condition given it came about before her new policy started. Ms P 
felt she had been deliberately priced out of this policy, which she thought was deeply unfair. 
She felt ETU should pay for her dogs operation. 
As ETU wouldnt change its stance, she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator thought ETU didnt do anything wrong as regards to the premium increase, 
but he did think the confusion over whether the premium price was correct or not caused Ms 
P some unnecessary trouble and upset, so he thought ETU should pay her £100 
compensation for this. ETU agreed but Ms P didnt.
 
The investigator also set up a complaint against the company who sold the policy to Ms P as 
it was possible it didnt explain clearly enough how and why premiums for pet policies can 
rise so extensively. That has been dealt with separately.
So, as Ms P didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint just for compensation along the lines of what 
the investigator said. Ill now explain why.
 
Theres no question that Ms Ps increase in premium was very large and I do understand 
and sympathise with Ms P as I can see it would have been quite a shock. However, all 
underwriters can increase premiums for varying risks as they wish to, provided they dont 
single any one customer out and treat that customer differently. Insurance companies are 
commercial enterprises, and the regulations permit them to retain the ability on how to rate 
the risks they are providing cover for. This is of course dependent on things like the cost of 
vet services or procedures as in Ms Ps case.
 
In order to show no customer has been singled out and treated differently, the underwriter 
must have an underwriting guide, which explains the rating given for all sorts of issues to 
include things like the age of the pet, the incidents and the amount or extent of previous 
claims, etc. This means that no one customer is then singled out and treated differently.
 
As the investigator explained, such underwriting guides are commercially sensitive 
information as of course each insurer might rate things differently. So, as we publish our 
decisions, we dont share these underwriting guides with consumers. Ive looked at the 
underwriting guide carefully and its clear ETU followed it when calculating Ms Ps premium. 
So that means that she wasnt singled out or treated differently. 
Therefore, there is nothing to show me ETU has done anything wrong. The premium 
increase is calculated fairly and in accordance with the underwriting guide. This also means 
there would be no question of ETU paying for the operation Ms P said her dog needs.
Turning now to how Ms P was told about her premium increase. Sadly, I consider there was 
too much confusion over this. First, she was told the amount was incorrect and then she was 
told it was indeed correct and there was too much unnecessary confusion over it. More so 
since the premium increase itself was such a shock. 
So, I consider this warrants compensation for the further distress caused. I consider that the 
investigators thoughts on a £100 compensation in addition to the apology Ms P has already 
received to be in line with our approach on such matters. Its also what I would have 
suggested had the investigator not done so. 
My final decision
Therefore, whilst I do appreciate and understand Ms P will be disappointed with my decision, 
its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for the payment of compensation only. 
I now require ETU Forsikring A/S to pay Ms P the sum of £100 compensation for the 
confusion over whether the premium increase quoted was correct or not. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman