DRN-3924532
The complaint
Ms J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax cant locate two of her accounts 
and has recorded the balance of a third account incorrectly.
What happened
Ms J says she holds three accounts with Halifax: a current account, a savings account and 
an investment account. She says she opened the investment account with £10,000 and also 
had £2,000 in the savings account. 
But Halifax says that Ms J only holds one account, which is a savings account called a liquid 
gold account. Ms J wants to know what has happened to the other accounts and to her 
£10,000 investment.
Ms J is also unhappy about the service she received from Halifax. She says that the branch 
staff wouldnt let her withdraw funds because she didnt have an account book and she went 
without money for a long time because of this. She says the branch staff werent helpful and 
she has been banned from the branch.
Ms J also says that Halifax told her there were several other names linked to her account. 
She says she doesnt know those people and wants to know why they are linked to her 
account.
When Ms J complained, Halifax said that the only account in her name was the liquid gold 
account. It said that she was the only person named on that account. Halifax couldnt locate 
any other accounts using the information Ms J had provided. It said this could mean that an 
account was closed a long time ago and there are no longer records for it. It said that the 
liquid gold account has never had a balance of £10,000. But Halifax upheld the part of Ms 
Js complaint which is about the service she received in the branch. It paid her £75 as an 
apology for that.
Ms J wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more. But Ms J didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the account holdings information from Halifaxs system. This shows both active 
and closed accounts. There is just one account shown in Ms Js name, which is the liquid 
gold account.
The information provided by the parties during the course of this complaint shows that Ms J 
has changed address a number of times over the years. I identified five different addresses. 
Before making my decision, I asked Halifax to search against all of them, in case any 
accounts could be located that way. Halifax has done so and confirmed that no other 
accounts were found. The only account identified is still the liquid gold account.
I find that Ms J only holds one account with Halifax and thats the liquid gold account. Im 
satisfied that there are no other people named on that account.
Ms J said in her complaint form that she thought she had closed her current account. Halifax 
says that, if an account was closed a long time ago, the records might not be available on its 
system any more. I think thats likely to apply to any type of account, not just a current 
account. Our Investigator has given Ms J details of a service which helps customers trace 
lost accounts and savings. I would urge Ms J to get in touch with them and see if anything 
can be found. From the information available, I dont think theres anything else that Halifax 
can do to help locate any other accounts.
Ive seen the statement information for Ms Js liquid gold account. The sum of £10,000 was 
never paid into this account and it has never carried a balance of £10,000. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the balance has been recorded incorrectly. 
But there seems to be some confusion about the nature of the liquid gold account. Ms J says 
its an investment account and that notice has to be given to withdraw money. She says 
shes never taken any money out of it. But she says that Halifax treated the account as an 
ordinary savings account. I find that the liquid gold account is a savings account. I note that 
the balance of the account is around £2,000, which is the amount Ms J said she had in her 
savings account. So it may be the case that its the investment account which Ms J needs to 
trace (as well as the current account) and not the savings account. But in any case, it 
doesnt change my view that the liquid gold account is the only account Ms J holds with 
Halifax.
Turning to the service Ms J received in the branch, Halifax upheld this aspect of her 
complaint and paid her £75. Ms J doesnt think thats enough to reflect the way she was 
affected by the situation. I realise she feels strongly about this, but Im not going to ask 
Halifax to pay any more compensation as I think £75 is a fair amount in the circumstances.
In conclusion, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly here. I realise my decision will be 
disappointing for Ms J and Im sorry for that. But Im not going to ask Halifax to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman