DRN-3500156
The complaint
This complaint is about a residential mortgage Mr and Mrs A hold with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Theyre unhappy that Barclays recorded adverse payment data on their respective 
credit files; they say the information has prevented them from re-mortgaging to a different 
lender on a lower rate than theyre paying to Barclays.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs A and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs A being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
In mid-2020, Mr and Mrs A asked Barclays for a new rate, and a further advance for home 
improvements. The new rate was put through first, but when the further advance application 
was processed, the resulting valuation was lower than expected, meaning Mr and Mrs A 
couldnt borrow the amount they needed. They asked Barclays to reverse the new rate; the 
bank did this, and backdated it to the date it had been applied. However, this placed the 
mortgage account into retrospective arrears.
The arrears came to light in early 2021, when Mr and Mrs A tried re-mortgaging to a new 
lender and discovered Barclays had recorded the arrears on their respective credit files. 
They complained and Barclays apologised, removed the arrears from the mortgage, paid 
Mr and Mrs A compensation and agreed to remove the adverse information from their credit 
files. However, the new lender (which Ill refer to here as H) was still unwilling to lend to 
Mr and Mrs A, and theyve remained with Barclays, paying the standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs A complained that Barclays actions, going all the way back to the down 
valuation of their home, had cost them the opportunity to re-mortgage on terms that are now 
not available, and sought compensation for the impact of being stuck on SVR. Other than 
paying a further nominal amount of compensation (£50) Barclays largely rejected the 
follow-up complaint. 
Mr and Mrs A referred the complaint to us, but the investigator who looked into it wasnt 
persuaded Barclays should pay further redress to Mr and Mrs A. On the valuation, he said 
Barclays had met its duty to Mr and Mrs A by instructing a suitably-qualified valuer, and 
having done so could fairly and reasonably rely on the valuers opinion. As for the adverse 
credit information, he thought it more likely than not that H had made its decision not to lend 
after Barclays had already removed the adverse data from Mr and Mrs As respective credit 
files.
Mr and Mrs A asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; what they are entitled to is for their 
application for lending to be assessed fairly in accordance with the prospective lenders 
individual lending criteria. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally 
made public. Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a 
lenders commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from 
that position here.
Against that backdrop, Ill start with the valuation of Mr and Mrs As property in association 
with the further advance application. A lenders duty to its applicants is to instruct a 
suitably-qualified valuer. Barclays did that; the valuer in question is a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The valuer is independent from Barclays, and 
doesnt act as its agent. In these circumstances, Barclays does not have any liability for any 
shortcomings there might have been on the part of the valuer. 
I should also make clear that Im not implying, and it should not be inferred, that there were 
any shortcomings on the valuers part. Ive not  because I have no power to do so  
considered whether the valuation was accurate or not. All I can consider here is whether 
Barclays was reasonably entitled to rely on what the valuation said when deciding how much 
it would lend, and the simple fact is that it was.
The decision not to lend Mr and Mrs A the amount they wanted was obviously disappointing, 
but Ive no reason to find it unfair, or otherwise second-guess Barclays commercial 
judgement. So Im afraid I cant agree with Mr and Mrs A when they say Barclays is 
responsible for their situation going back to April 2020 when they first asked about a new 
rate and a further advance.
The problems only started with the removal of the new rate from Mr and Mrs As mortgage. 
To be clear, they wanted that, as it gave them the flexibility to look for a new lender without 
having to worry about incurring an early repayment charge if they redeemed the Barclays 
mortgage. 
The difficulty is that removing the new rate meant unwinding it altogether: i.e. by backdating 
the reversion to SVR several months to the date the new rate had been applied. This had 
the effect of putting the mortgage into arrears, equivalent to the difference between the 
payments Mr and Mrs A had made on the new rate in the intervening months and what they 
would have paid on SVR. Critically, this was reported retrospectively on Mr and Mrs As 
credit files, but Barclays didnt make any of this clear to them.When that came to light, Barclays admitted liability and apologised, removed the arrears 
from the mortgage account and paid Mr and Mrs A compensation for their time and trouble. 
Just as importantly, it agreed to remove the adverse data from Mr and Mrs As credit files. All 
of that is exactly what I would expect Barclays to do, so I dont need to make any further 
finding on Barclays culpability up to that point. What that leaves, however, is the question of 
whether the adverse data Barclays has accepted it recorded by mistake then led to 
Mr and Mrs A being turned down for a re-mortgage by H. 
That is the crux of Mr and Mrs As complaint, as it underpins their claim for compensation for 
further financial loss. To find in their favour and make the award theyre seeking, I have to be 
persuaded on the balance of probabilities of two things: 
that Barclays reported adverse information that was either inaccurate or, whilst accurate, 
flowed from an error on its part; and
that the adverse information in question was wholly and solely the reason H refused 
Mr and Mrs As re-mortgage application.
The first test has already been met, for the reasons Ive set out above. But having given very 
careful consideration to everything that all the parties (including H) have said and provided, 
Im not persuaded the second test has been met. Ill explain why.
First of all, Barclays evidence shows that it processed the cleansing amendment on 
2 February 2021. Meanwhile, Hs contemporaneous file notes of the application show that it 
finalised its decision not to lend on 26 February 2021. Meanwhile, Mr and Mrs A have 
themselves confirmed that when they checked on 25 February 2021, the information had 
been removed.
From this, its reasonable to conclude that H knew the adverse information from Barclays 
had been placed in error, and that it had been removed, when it decided not to lend. So 
even if the adverse information had been a contributory factor initially, its hard for me to 
conclude that Hs ultimate refusal to lend was wholly and solely down to what Barclays had 
recorded on Mr and Mrs As credit files.
Thats largely confirmed by Hs own response to Mr and Mrs A when they asked it 
specifically why the mortgage application had been refused. In a letter dated 9 May 2022, 
which Mr and Mrs A supplied to us, H said: 
Case referred for failed credit score 
No exceptional reasons for override of failed score, not within current risk appetite  case 
declined 
Acceptable referrals only if default has been registered by the Group as an error, if not 
registered by [lender name redacted], the customer must approach the relevant 
company who was responsible for issues relating to their credit file, get it 
corrected and re-apply at a later date 
We dont know that the issue relating to Barclays Bank is what was causing the 
failed credit score and as applicants are not existing customers, we would not consider 
any overturn. Remains declined.
(The emphasis in bold is mine)
On bullet point three, by the time H finalised its decision not to lend, the information had 
already been removed. On bullet point four, if H itself cannot conclude that the adverse information from Barclays caused it to turn Mr and Mrs A down for their re-mortgage, theres 
no reasonable basis for me to do so either. 
To be clear, I cant consider and make any findings here on whether H handled 
Mr and Mrs As re-mortgage application fairly; that would have to be addressed in a 
complaint against H. All I can consider here is how Hs handling of the application impacts 
on the complaint against Barclays. 
Theres one last point to make. I understand that Mr and Mrs A have deferred applying 
afresh for a re-mortgage way from Barclays until the search(es) carried out by H had fallen 
away from their credit files. That was their decision, and not one that I can in any way 
attribute to any act or omission on Barclays part.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman