DRN-2684600
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car he obtained a Hire Purchase Agreement (HP) with Oodle
Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Finance (Oodle) wasnt fit for purpose. He would
like to reject it.
What happened
Mr. T says he took out an HP agreement with Ooodle on 16 October 2019. And that on his
way home he heard a grinding noise which he believed to be a fault with the differential. He
says he contacted the dealership two days after purchase saying he wanted to reject the car.
Oodle confirmed Mr T asked to reject the car within the thirty days he had to do so if there
was a fault. But it arranged an independent inspection which found no fault. It said the only
issue was that a bolt needed tightening on a heat shield which it didnt feel constituted a
repair.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
There is no dispute that Mr. T asked to reject his car within the thirty days allowed 
under consumer legislation. Or that he didnt want the car repaired.
When the dealership inspected the car, it found the only issue was that the heat 
shield needed to be re secured
The independent inspection Oodle organised concluded any noise was due to an 
insecure heat shield that had been rectified. Otherwise the car was fault free.
Oodle made the point that tightening a bolt is a matter of wear and tear not repair. 
And it didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality
The main issue for me to decide was whether re securing a heat shield constituted a 
repair or not. I felt this was such a minor issue that it didnt constitute a repair.
Mr T said there were other problems with the car for example a problem with the 
drive train system, but he didnt give any evidence of this that I could consider. And 
no such issues were identified in the independent report. 
As I found no evidence of a point of sale issue for which Oodle was responsible I 
didnt feel there were any grounds to allow Mr T to reject the car as he wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle accepted my provisional findings and made no comments for me to consider and 
respond to.
.
Mr T didnt accept my provisional findings and made several points which I have considered.
He has told us that he didnt want the differential  being fixed without his knowledge. And  
fixing the heat shield shows that Oodle tried  to resolve a problem without his knowledge. He 
has also now told us that  he thinks a brand-new heat shield was fitted and said he would 
evidence this but hasnt done so.
I appreciate Mr T didnt want any repair, but I didnt feel that re securing a bolt constituted a 
repair. I have no information to show that  the heat shield was replaced rather than re 
secured by a bolt .  And no other issues were found by either the dealership inspection or 
the independent report. So, I have no evidence to show that , as Mr T seems to be saying , 
something else was fixed without his consent.
Mr T has said that a warning light about the drive train came on when he got the car back 
after the independent inspection which took place on 1 November 2019. He has referred to 
emails and conversations with Oodle about this. He hasnt given us any email evidence. We 
have asked Oodle, but it has no record of any email correspondence with Mr T  from or 
around  March 2020  the timescale Mr T gave us.
Mr T also asked us to listen to phone calls with Oodle. Oodle supplied us with five phone 
calls that I have listened to. Its clear that Mr Ts main issue is that he wasnt allowed to 
reject his car  within the first 30 days of having it. My view of that hasnt changed . I 
appreciate Mr T doesnt agree with me, but I am still of the view that re securing a bolt 
doesnt constitute a repair and therefore there were no grounds for Mr T to return his car at 
that point.
In one phone call, which seems to be when Mr T first contacted Oodle, he  raised several 
issues such as an exhaust rattle and what he describes as soft brakes. However, I believe 
this call  was before the independent  was carried out. And that report found no issues with 
the car.
In some of the other  phone calls Mr T refers to the issue of the light coming on indicating a 
fault with the drive train. As far as I can tell the one of these calls was more than six months 
after Mr T had the car so as I explained in my provisional view when issues arise after six 
months the onus is on the consumer to show there is a point of sale issue
The other phone call when Mr T talks in detail about the drive train is, as far as I can tell, in 
January 2020. He refers to a phone call on 18 December 2019 when he raised the drive 
train issue. I dont believe I have a copy of that call. In the January call he explains the drive 
train error message has lit up. So, this happened after the independent inspection had been 
carried out in November 2019. I have gone back and looked over that report. Unfortunately, 
it found no issues with the car. I think if there had been any fault with the car that had been 
present or developing at the point of sale I would have expected it to have been identified in 
the independent inspection. But as no fault was found I dont feel I have any ground to alter 
my provisional decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman