DRN-4490137
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his bank account and didnt treat him fairly 
when it asked him to repay money he owed after a failed chargeback claim. 
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr H had a basic bank account with HSBC that he opened in January 2018. 
Mr H raised a number of card disputes relating to payments made to a gambling website. In 
October 2020, HSBC temporarily credited the payments whilst it completed a charge back 
investigation. HSBC told Mr H that the payments would be re-debited if he was found liable 
for the transactions following its investigation. 
HSBC wrote to Mr H in December 2020 and January 2021 to explain that the retailers bank 
had rejected Mr Hs charge back claim. The retailer provided documentation to show Mr H 
deposited the funds to the merchants website and used the money to successfully place 
bets. Therefore, the services were provided as described. So, on 8 January 2021, HSBC re-
debited the temporary credits, amounting to £3,600, previously provided. This caused Mr Hs 
account to go into an unarranged overdraft. 
In May 2021, HSBC reviewed Mr Hs account. Following this HSBC decided to close Mr Hs 
account immediately and wrote to him to let him know hed need to repay any money that he 
owed the bank. At the time Mr Hs account was closed, his account was just over £2,500 
overdrawn. Due to the outstanding balance the account couldnt close, but HSBC placed a 
block on the account. 
On 14 June 2022, HSBC wrote to Mr H again asking him to repay the money he owed. The 
letter detailed ways Mr H could repay what he owed, which included calling HSBC to make a 
payment. Mr H called HSBC to try and make a payment, but because his account had 
closed, he wasnt able to make a payment. Instead, he was told that hed need to visit a 
branch with cash or cheque to clear the balance. Mr H said he wasnt happy to do this  
especially as he didnt have a cheque book and wasnt comfortable that hed have to carry a 
large amount of cash to branch. On 22 June 2022, HSBC arranged for Mr H to repay what 
he owed via bank transfer and was able to clear the balance. 
Mr H complained to HSBC. He said he hadnt done anything wrong and pointed out that 
HSBC hadnt spoken to him about any activity on his account that it wasnt happy with. So, 
he said HSBC shouldnt have closed his account. He also said HSBC hadnt treated him 
fairly when it asked him to repay what he owed.
HSBC apologised for telling Mr H he could make a payment over the phone in its letter of 14 
June 2022 and offered him £50 compensation for any trouble and upset this had caused 
him. It said it hadnt done anything wrong in asking Mr H to repay the money he owed and 
had clearly explained to him that it could re-debit the transactions following its charge back 
investigation. It also said it had closed the account in line with the terms and conditions.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. As part of his complaint Mr H said because he 
had a basic bank account HSBC should not have allowed the account to go overdrawn and 
place him in an unarranged overdraft. He said the letters HSBC sent to him told him that he 
had been placed in an overdraft which was misleading and against the terms of the account. 
Mr H also said that he was under the impression that he was free to repay what he owed as 
and when he could. But HSBC then told him he had to clear the debt immediately and 
threatened him with debt collection. Mr H says this meant he had to borrow money from 
family which caused him an immense amount of stress. So, he wants HSBC to pay him 
compensation.
The investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Hs 
account and asked him to repay what he owed. He also said that HSBCs offer of 
compensation was fair. So, he didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more. 
HSBC agreed. Mr H didnt. He said HSBC hasnt followed the right procedure in closing the 
account and overall had treated him unfairly.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. Before I issued my 
decision, I asked for some more information. I asked Mr H whether he had any other bank 
accounts at the time HSBC closed his account and to provide a copy of his credit file. I also 
asked Mr H if he asked HSBC for any support in relation to repaying the money he owed. 
In response, Mr H said he didnt see why he should provide his credit file and wasnt willing 
to do so. He also said that HSBC placed him on a repayment plan. Mr H didnt confirm 
whether he had any other accounts at the time. 
After reviewing all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
I appreciate Mr H was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what he said about his complaint. Id like to reassure 
Mr H that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in 
taking this approach. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr H and 
HSBC have said before reaching my decision.
Ill deal first with the closure of Mr Hs account. HSBC closed Mr Hs basic bank account with 
immediate effect. As our investigator explained to Mr H, a bank is generally under no 
obligation to continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. Typically, 
as long as it provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that 
decision either. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require HSBC to do so. That being 
said, in this case, I can see that in its letter dated 31 May 2021, HSBC did give Mr H a 
reason  namely HSBC was unhappy with the conduct on Mr Hs account.
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But it 
must do so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Hs account, which HSBC and Mr H had to comply with, say that it could close the 
account by giving him at least two months notice. In certain circumstances HSBC can also 
close the account immediately. Mr H had a basic bank account with HSBC, which he opened in January 2018. These types 
of current account are intended for people who dont have and dont qualify for standard 
current accounts. In order to be eligible for a payment account with basic features an 
individual shouldnt hold a payment account with any United Kingdom credit institution that 
has at least the features of a basic bank account. 
When closing a basic account, along with the terms and conditions of the account, HSBC 
also has to consider the provisions of the Payment Accounts Regulations Act 2015 (PAR 
2015). Amongst other things they set out when an account provider can close a basic bank 
account. Closure is only permitted in certain circumstances  one of them involves the 
conduct of the account and the way it is being run. Another reason is if the consumer has 
access to another payment account in the United Kingdom which allows the consumer to 
make use of services offered by a basic bank account and was opened after the payment 
account with basic features.
HSBC has provided this service with information about why it decided to close Mr Hs basic 
bank account immediately. Whilst HSBC has told us and Mr H it wasnt happy with Mr Hs 
conduct on the account, I dont think this conduct meets the definition of any of the criteria 
set out under the PARs 2015, which allow immediate closure. So, it follows that I dont think 
HSBC should have closed Mr Hs account in the way that it did.
Mr H has told this service that he didnt have any other bank account at the time which 
added to the distress and inconvenience he suffered when HSBC closed his basic bank 
account. Mr H has said that he was able to get another account with another bank sometime 
after HSBC closed his account. From looking at Mr Hs basic account statement I can see 
that there are a number of transactions coming into the account from other accounts that 
Mr H appears to have had. I note too that Mr H said that he was able to use an existing  
account he already had after HSBC closed his account. So, despite what Mr H says about 
not having any other account, it appears to me, based on the information Ive seen that Mr H 
did.
To find that Mr H didnt have any other bank account open in May 2022, which is when 
HSBC decided to close Mr Hs basic account, Id need to see evidence in the form of 
statements or a credit file report. Our investigator has asked Mr H for a copy of his credit file, 
but Mr H says he is unwilling to provide this. I can understand why Mr H feels like this, but to 
fairly conclude that HSBC shouldnt have closed Mr Hs basic bank account, Id need to be 
satisfied Mr H didnt have another current account open at the same time, or one that was 
opened after he opened his basic bank account. 
So, although Im satisfied HSBC shouldnt have closed Mr Hs account, I cant fairly decide 
this point until I have enough information to say Mr H didnt have another account when he 
opened the account. If he did have another bank account, then the additional obligations 
placed on HSBC for when it can close a basic bank account would fall away. Thats because 
as Ive already said, basic bank accounts are a type of current account intended for people 
who dont have and dont qualify for standard current accounts. Both the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs account as well as the PARs 2015, permit HSBC to close Mr Hs basic 
account if he subsequently went on to open another payment account. 
If Mr H can show he didnt have another bank account, then its most likely I will uphold this 
part of his complaint. That is HSBC were wrong to close his basic bank account. In terms of 
fair compensation, I wouldnt be minded to direct HSBC to reopen his account  thats 
because Mr H now has another account offering the features of a basic bank account. It's 
also clear that the relationship between Mr H and HSBC has now broken down. But I would 
have to compensate Mr H for the trouble and upset HSBC closing his account caused him. 
Weighing up the overall impact this had on Mr H Im minded to award £250. But to be clear, this is contingent on whether Mr H shows he didnt have another bank account at the time, 
Ive already said what information I need to be able to determine that.
overdraft 
Mr H raised a charge back dispute with HSBC regarding a number of payments he made to 
a gambling website. HSBC carried out an investigation which included contacting the 
retailer. Whilst it did this it temporarily re-credited the transactions to Mr Hs account, 
however it explained that the transactions could be re-debited if the dispute was 
unsuccessful. The retailers bank rejected Mr Hs claim, so the transactions were reapplied to 
Mr Hs account in January 2021. This meant Mr Hs account went overdrawn.
Mr H says because he had a basic bank account HSBC shouldnt have allowed him to go 
into an unarranged overdraft. So, he says HSBC hasnt followed the terms of the account 
which was misleading and has pointed to letters HSBC sent him in support of what hes said. 
But according to the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account a basic bank account can have 
a debit balance, it cant have an arranged overdraft - but can go overdrawn, which is what 
happened with Mr Hs account. Its also important to note that with all bank accounts where 
there a debit balance present and where there is no arranged overdraft it is referred to as an 
unarranged overdraft. So, Im satisfied that HSBC has acted in line with the terms of Mr Hs 
account. Im also satisfied that HSBC clearly explained to Mr H at the time he raised the 
charge backs that if it was unsuccessful the transactions would be re-debited to his account, 
and he understood why his account was overdrawn. Given that Mr H wasnt charged any 
interest  or charges for going overdrawn, I cant say he has lost out financially because 
HSBC re-debited the disputed transactions.
Mr H says HSBC treated him unfairly by asking him to repay what he owed immediately and 
has said that he had to borrow money to repay it.  HSBC was entitled to ask Mr H to repay 
what he owed, simply by giving notice to him. At the point HSBC closed Mr Hs account he 
was overdrawn, and he owed money hed spent. When the account was closed the debt 
became due HSBC wrote to him on 14 June 2022 saying hed need to repay the money by 5 
July 2022. 
I can appreciate receiving the letter would no doubt have caused Mr H upset and worry. But 
HSBC also said that if Mr H couldnt repay the money, it would try and come to an 
arrangement with him, but hed need to complete an income and expenditure form. HSBC 
also provided information about organisations he could contact to seek independent advice 
about his financial situation. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H went through an income 
expenditure exercise with HSBC. I can also see from looking at Mr Hs account statements 
that in November 2021 he made two payments towards his balance, of just over £200, but 
then made no payments until he cleared the balance in June 2022, which from looking at the 
contact notes, Mr H decided to do in order to avoid the account being defaulted. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that HSBC applied pressure to Mr H to repay what he owed. Im 
satisfied HSBC took appropriate steps to help Mr H and did what Id expect them to do when 
it asked Mr H to repay the debt. 
Finally, Mr H says HSBC wrote to him in June 2022, and told him that he could repay what 
he owed by calling the bank. Mr H says when he tried to do this, he was told this wasnt 
possible because his account was being closed. And that he was told hed have to go into 
branch with cash or pay by cheque. Mr H says he didnt have a cheque book and wasnt 
happy about walking around with that much cash. And he was upset that hed been given 
wrong information. HSBC accepted it made a mistake and offered Mr H £50 compensation 
for any trouble and upset he was caused. It also arranged for Mr H to clear what he owed by 
making a bank transfer. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of 
Mr Hs complaint, so I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.My provisional decision was that I intended to partly uphold Mr Hs complaint.  But this was 
contingent on whether Mr H shows he didnt have another bank account at the time.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. Mr H also accepted my provisional decision and 
responded with a number of points. In summary he said:
when HSBC closed his account, he didnt have any other payment account which 
offered the same features as his HSBC basic account, which is why he fought so 
hard to keep the account with HSBC open
at the time his HSBC account was closed he had prepaid card accounts which are 
now closed. So, he cant provide bank statements or any information about them. 
This is because the accounts were based on mobile apps, he now has a new mobile 
phone, new mobile number, and new email address
prepaid card accounts dont appear on credit files which is why he is refusing to 
provide a copy of his credit file in response the provisional decision
its unfair to ask him to provide evidence of something there is no longer evidence of
he did have two other accounts with another bank and financial services provider at 
the time, which explain some of the transfers on his HSBC account statement, but 
these were not current accounts
he has a right to use his account for gambling and raise disputes. In doing so he 
didnt breach the terms of the account and it would be unfair if HSBC has closed his 
account for these reasons
he wants to know why HSBC closed his account
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, which is repeated above and forms part of this 
decision, Mr H has raised a number of points which Ill now address below.
As I set out in my provisional decision when closing a basic account, along with the terms 
and conditions of the account, HSBC also has to consider the provisions of the Payment 
Accounts Regulations Act 2015 (PAR 2015). Amongst other things they set out when an 
account provider can close a basic bank account. Closure is only permitted in certain 
circumstances  one of them involves the conduct of the account and the way it is being run. 
Another reason is if the consumer has access to another payment account in the United 
Kingdom which allows the consumer to make use of services offered by a basic bank 
account and was opened after the payment account with basic features.
Mr H says it would be unfair for HSBC to close his account because he used the account for 
gambling and raised a dispute about some transactions that he had made  in other words 
the conduct of the account. I havent seen any evidence that HSBC closed his account for 
these reasons  on the contrary I am satisfied that HSBC did what Id expect them to do 
when Mr H raised his dispute. As I set out in my provisional decision, HSBC provided this service with information about 
why it decided to close Mr Hs basic bank account immediately. Whilst HSBC has told us 
and Mr H it wasnt happy with Mr Hs conduct on the account, having looked at how Mr H 
was operating his account, I didnt think this conduct met the definition of any of the criteria 
set out under the PARs 2015, which allowed HSBC to immediately close Mr Hs account. 
However, as I set out above, HSBC could close Mr Hs account if he had access to another 
payment account in the United Kingdom which allows the consumer to make use of services 
offered by a basic bank account and was opened after the payment account with basic 
features. From looking at Mr Hs bank statement I noticed there were a number of 
transactions relating to other accounts Mr H appeared to have. So, in my provisional 
decision I asked Mr H to provide evidence that he didnt have another payment account  I 
asked him to provide me copies of bank statements or a copy of his credit file. 
In response Mr H maintained that he never had another account that offered him the same 
services as his account with HSBC. He said he did have prepaid accounts but no longer has 
access to any of the information relating to these. And he wont provide his credit file report 
because these types of account dont appear on a credit file. He also said that he did have at 
least two other accounts, but again he says they didnt offer him the same services as his 
basic account so wouldnt be classed as a current account. So, he says its unfair of me to 
ask him to provide evidence, and I should just accept his word.
I can understand why Mr H feels like this, but to fairly conclude that HSBC shouldnt have 
closed Mr Hs basic bank account, Id need to be satisfied Mr H didnt have another current 
account open at the same time, or one that was opened after he opened his basic bank 
account. Mr H hasnt provided me with any evidence to support what he has said. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, based on Mr Hs HSBC account statements, I cant 
fairly conclude that Mr H didnt have another account either at the time he opened his basic 
account or subsequently went on to open another payment account. So, the additional 
obligations placed on HSBC for when it can close a basic bank account under the PARs 
2015 fall away. This means Im not satisfied that HSBC treated Mr H unfairly when it closed 
his account. So, I wont be asking HSBC to pay Mr H any compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused him.
overdraft 
Mr H raised a dispute about some payments hed made to a gambling website. HSBC 
investigated and contacted the retailer. Mr Hs dispute was unsuccessful, so the transactions 
were re-debited to Mr Hs account, which meant Mr Hs account went overdrawn. As I said in 
my provisional decision, going by the terms and conditions of the account, it does seem that 
the basic account can on occasion, still enter an unarranged overdraft. However, given that 
Mr H has not been charged for any interest or charges for going overdrawn, I cant say he 
has lost out financially because HSBC re-debited the payments in question.  As such, in the 
circumstances, I cant say that HSBC has done anything wrong . And given that the account 
only entered into an unarranged overdraft due to payments that Mr H authorised, I see no 
reason why HSBC should pay Mr H compensation in the circumstances. 
Finally, Mr H says HSBC wrote to him in June 2022, and told him that he could repay what 
he owed by calling the bank. Mr H says when he tried to do this, he was told this wasnt 
possible because his account was being closed. HSBC has accepted it made a mistake and 
offered Mr H £50 compensation for any trouble and upset this caused him. It also arranged 
for Mr H to clear what he owed by making a bank transfer. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Hs complaint, so I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything more.In summary, I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but Mr H hasnt 
provided me with sufficient information so that I can be satisfied that he did not have another 
bank account offering the same features as the account which HSBC closed. This means I 
am unable to conclude that HSBC treated Mr H unfairly when it closed his account. Im also 
satisfied that HSBC treated Mr H fairly when his account went overdrawn and its done 
enough to put things right when it wrongly told Mr H, he wasnt able to repay what he owed 
over the phone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman