DRN-3842515
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his motor insurer, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) because it didnt tell him it had agreed, on a without prejudice basis, that he was at 
fault for an accident which occurred in 2019.
What happened
Mr R was involved in an accident in 2019. He believed it was not his fault. The other driver 
said it was. RSA initially dealt with the claim on the basis of Mr R not having been at fault. 
But, in 2020, RSAs legal representative decided to agree, on a without prejudice (WOP) 
basis, that Mr R had been liable. This was because they didnt think it was possible to 
succeed in any court action with an argument to the contrary. RSA was aware of the 
decision. Mr R was not informed. 
Following the claim in 2019, Mr R had been told by RSAs legal representative that theyd be 
in touch in due course. So he waited. And with the Covid-19 pandemic which then ensured, 
he thought the matter was just taking a while to resolve. Mr R owned his car as part of a 
particular scheme, which the insurance provided by RSA was linked to. Around the time of 
the accident, and thereafter, Mr R had been thinking about returning the car and ending his 
involvement with the scheme. But whilst not knowing what was happening with the claim, 
Mr R felt unable to make any decision in this respect. In September 2021 he spoke to RSA 
for an update. He was surprised to be told that, as of 2020, his liability for the accident, on a 
WOP basis, had been agreed. He was unhappy that he hadnt been told about this sooner 
and complained.
RSA acknowledged the error, apologised and offered £100. Mr R was unhappy. He 
complained to us. He explained how RSA had acted to accept liability without any contact 
with him. Mr R said that RSAs offer of compensation had been inappropriately low given 
that RSA had accepted it had failed him. 
Our Investigator asked Mr R if he had any evidence of incurring any financial loss regarding 
his car and insurance during the time he had been unaware of RSAs WOP acceptance of 
liability. Mr R did not provide any further details regarding this. Mr R told our Investigator 
that, on a number of occasions, prior to finding out in 2021 that liability had been accepted, 
he had chased for updates. He clarified that this had been through the scheme provider, not 
RSA  that his first contact with RSA, since its representative had told him they would be in 
touch in due course, about the progress of the claim, had been in 2021. That it was during 
that first contact with RSA in 2021 that he was updated about the liability decision made the 
year before.  
Our Investigator felt that RSA; having acknowledged its error in not updating Mr R, having 
apologised for that and having offered £100 compensation, had acted fairly and reasonably. 
So she did not think RSA should have to do anything more. 
Mr R was unhappy. He asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr R has raised other concerns with RSA, and this service. But they are not 
the subject of this complaint which I am considering here. This complaint, and my decision, 
as reflected in my background set out above, focus only on RSAs failure to inform Mr R that 
a liability decision had been made.
I do think RSA failed Mr R here. In many ways the effects of RSAs failure have been limited 
because Mr R didnt act in the interim to change the arrangements for his car, including the 
provision of insurance. I cant know what would have happened, had he decided to change, 
but its a distinct possibility that RSAs failure could have prejudiced his position. Which is 
why this service expects insurers to keep their policyholders reasonably informed and 
updated of key claim activity and decisions. RSA did not do that here. So it reasonably has 
to make amends to Mr R for the consequences of that failure.
Here, because Mr R did not act to change anything, and he was waiting for an update, the 
impact on him was, in my view, relatively limited. I know Mr R wanted to know what was 
happening, and that he put his plans on hold in the interim. But he hasnt shown me that he 
suffered financially because he waited in this way. And I do think that if he had been feeling 
too worried or upset, hed have made attempts to speak to RSA or its representative sooner. 
It was sometimes more difficult to contact companies during the pandemic  but it wasnt 
impossible. And Mr R hasnt said that he tried to contact RSA or its representative but was 
unable to get through  rather that he was dealing with the scheme provider in the 
meantime. I cant reasonably hold RSA liable for what the scheme provider did or didnt tell 
Mr R. Mr R had policy documents showing that RSA was the insurer and he had 
correspondence from its representative (which said theyd be in touch). I think the fact that 
Mr R did not chase these entities during 2020-2021, until he finally spoke to RSA and was 
updated on liability, shows that he didnt suffer much on-going upset during that time.
In my view, and quite understandably, Mr Rs upset occurred when he learnt of the liability 
decision. But not only that  that the decision had been made nearly a year before, that RSA 
had known about it and he had not been told. That would have been more than frustrating 
for Mr R and I completely understand why he was so upset with RSA about this. I accept that 
this caused him worry about what might have happened, and a loss expectation about what 
he might have done differently had he known earlier. However, RSA has acknowledged this 
failure, apologised for it and the upset caused, and offered £100 compensation. In the 
circumstances, I think that is in line with what this service would expect it to do. I think RSA, 
on this occasion, has acted fairly and reasonably in response to Mr Rs complaint. Im not 
minded to make it do anything more.
I understand that RSA did not make the compensation payment to Mr R as he did not accept 
it and, therefore, did not give it his bank details. As such, given Ive found that RSA failed 
Mr R and that this is a fair and reasonable remedy to Mr Rs complaint which arises out of 
that failure, I will direct RSA to pay this now. If Mr R accepts my final decision, within the 
deadline set, RSA will be bound to pay that sum. If Mr R does not accept it, it wont have to 
pay it. 
 
My final decision
I require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £100 compensation as 
previously offered by it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman