DRN-1826278
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining about the way Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has handled a 
claim on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont set them out in detail. 
But, in summary, in October 2019 Mrs Ks car was damaged in an accident. She called the 
telephone number on her insurance document to claim on her car insurance policy. The 
telephone call was handled by a claims management company (CMC), who subsequently 
passed the claim to Markerstudy to deal with.
Markerstudy wrote her car off and said it would settle the claim by paying Mrs K the cars 
market value less her excess. And it initially valued the car at around £7,400. Mrs K didnt 
think it was fair for Markerstudy to write the car off and she wanted it to repair the car. 
Markerstudy said it was entitled to pay her the cars market value rather than repair it. But it 
said she could keep the cars salvage if she wanted to, but it would deduct the salvage value 
from the claim settlement.
Mrs K didnt think Markerstudy was treating her fairly. Markerstudy reviewed the cars market 
value and increased it to £8,250, but it said this would increase the cars salvage value. 
Mrs K didnt think this was fair that the amount being deducted from the claim settlement had 
increased. She also still thought Markerstudy should repair her car. Markerstudy reviewed 
the valuation again and increased it to £8,360 because it said it hadnt taken into account the 
fact the car had parking sensors. It said this increased the salvage value to be deducted to 
£1,922.80. Mrs K didnt think this was fair and asked Markerstudy to give her its internal 
guidelines for how it calculates a cars salvage value. Markerstudy said it wasnt required to 
give this for data protection reasons. Mrs K didnt agree with this and said it should provide 
this information to her
Mrs K complained further as she said Markerstudy said the estimated repair cost was 
around £5,300. And she said shed been told by Markerstudy that it repairs a car where the 
cost of repair is less than 70% of the cars market value. But Markerstudy later said it will 
generally write a car off where the cost of repair is more than 60% of the cars market value. 
It said this is because the repair estimate was only an estimate. And it said where the 
damage is high, theres always a risk the repair cost could increase. It highlighted that this 
was set out in the terms of the policy.  
Mrs K complained to Markerstudy about the way it was handling the claim. She also said 
that she thought the agent who handled the initial call she made to report the claim was rude 
to her. She said she ultimately wanted Markerstudy to either repair the car or pay her 
£10,000 which is what she thinks it will cost her to replace it. She was also unhappy she 
hadnt been given a courtesy car while this matter was being resolved.
Markerstudy said it would review Mrs Ks complaint and would contact the inspecting garage 
to discuss whether the car was repairable. After doing so, it still thought the car was a total 
loss, so it wasnt willing to repair it. Mrs K complained further and said Markerstudy had got 
her hopes up that the car might be repairable, but had since learnt that the car was written 
off a long time ago. So she said Markerstudy had falsely told her it would look to repair the 
car, when she thought it never had any intention of doing so.
Mrs K maintained that she wanted the car repaired, but not by Markerstudys chosen garage. 
She said dealing with this claim had left her very stressed and was making her unwell. 
Markerstudy later increased the cars market value to £8,500, but it didnt increase the 
salvage value further. It accepted that it had given some misleading information during the 
claim journey which it thought would have caused Mrs K some increased stress. So it 
offered her £150 in compensation for this. But it maintained that it had looked to help Mrs K 
throughout.
Mrs K later asked Markerstudy whether it would repair the car if she got an estimate for less 
than 60% of the cars value. But Markerstudy said its unlikely it would authorise this due to 
the risk of the repair costs increasing when the repairs started.
However, Markerstudy later said there was an option through the cars manufacturer to get a 
repair estimate at a discounted rate. But Mrs K didnt accept this as her car was already at 
the garage being repaired. She complained that Markerstudy didnt explore this option at the 
start when she said she wanted the car repaired. She said she gave Markerstudy every 
option to have the car repaired but it didnt agree to any option she gave. She also said the 
repairs were completed for around £5,300, so she maintains it would have been cost 
effective to repair the car. And she wants Markerstudy to remove the total loss marker from 
the car.
Markerstudy remained of the opinion it was entitled to write the car off, so it said it wasnt 
willing to remove the total loss marker. So Mrs K referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Markerstudy was entitled to decide how 
to settle the claim. And he didnt think Markerstudy had acted unfairly in deciding to write the 
car off. He said it had acted in line with the terms of the insurance policy. He acknowledged 
Markerstudy had given conflicting information, but he still thought it had acted fairly. He 
noted Mrs K was unhappy Markerstudy didnt provide a courtesy car. But he said she wasnt 
entitled to one under the terms of the insurance policy. So he didnt think Markerstudy had 
acted unfairly in this respect.
The investigator acknowledged Mrs K wanted to see Markerstudys internal guidelines for 
calculating salvage values. But he said Markerstudy wasnt required to disclose this. He 
noted that Markerstudy had given some incorrect information during the claim process. But 
he thought Markerstudys compensation offer of £150 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators opinion. She thought the investigator had made a 
number of incorrect statements. She said it took Markerstudy three months to consider using 
the manufacturer scheme to try and repair the car. She said shed spent so much time trying 
to resolve this matter. And she doesnt think £150 comes close to the amount of distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused her.
She says Markerstudy should have given her the option to use a garage of her choice 
sooner than it did.
As Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that Im only looking at the actions of Markerstudy in this decision. Mrs K 
has also complained about the actions of the broker and the CMC who she first reported the 
incident to. But those complaints are being considering separately.
Mrs K has raised a number of reasons of why shes unhappy with the way Markerstudy has 
handled her claim. Ive considered everything shes raised, but Ive not commented on each 
and every point shes raised. Instead Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues shes 
raised. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
I appreciate Mrs K feels strongly about the way she thinks Markerstudy should have handled 
this claim. But, ultimately, Markerstudy was entitled to settle the claim in line with the terms 
of the contract. And I dont think it acted unfairly. I shall look to address the key issues Mrs K 
has raised separately.
How Markerstudy settled the claim
As I said, Markerstudy was entitled to settle the claim in line with the terms of the contract. 
And they say:
Under this section we may either:
pay for the damage to the insured vehicle to be repaired; or
with your agreement provide a replacement car; or
pay an amount of cash equivalent to the loss or damage.
The most we will pay will be either:
the market value of the insured vehicle immediately before the loss; or
the cost of repairing the insured vehicle, whichever is the lower amount.
the written down value, agreed value or market value, whichever is lower, if your insured 
vehicle is under a lease agreement.
The terms of the policy gave Markerstudy sole discretion in how it wished to settle a claim. 
So it was entitled to decide whether to repair the car or pay Mrs K a cash settlement  i.e. 
pay the cars market value, less the excess or repair it. I appreciate Mrs K feels strongly 
Markerstudy should have repaired the car, but Markerstudy has simply followed the terms of 
the contract. And it was entitled to do this.
But, while Markerstudy was entitled to decide how to settle the claim, it had to exercise this 
fairly and reasonably. Markerstudy has said that it will generally write a car off where the 
estimated cost of repair is more than 60% of the cars market value. This is in line with 
standard industry practice. It says it does this because the initial estimate is just an estimate 
and it says its not unusual for the actual repair cost to be more than the original estimate. I 
dont think this is unfair. Ultimately Markerstudy is entitled to consider whats likely to be the 
most cost effective and efficient way of settling a claim  taking into account any unexpected 
costs.Markerstudy ultimately valued Mrs Ks car at £8,500. The repair estimate was around £5,300 
which equated to around 62% of the cars market value. So I cant say it acted unfairly in 
choosing to pay the market value of the car instead of repairing it.
I note Mrs K says she cant replace the car for the amount Markerstudy has valued the car 
at. So Ive thought about whether Markerstudy has offered a fair value for her car. I should 
first state its not this services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual 
vehicle is. We look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and 
valued the vehicle fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Ks policy, Markerstudy has to pay her the 
market value of the car, less her excess.
The market value is defined as the cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of loss 
or damage compared with one of the same make, model, specification and condition.
Markerstudy has valued Mrs Ks car at £8,500. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry valuation guides. Mrs K doesnt think this valuation is fair because she says she 
cant replace the car for this.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides 
give are based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss. The guides also give an option to adjust the cars value to take into 
account any optional extras the car may have.
Ive looked at the valuation of Mrs Ks car and I think its fair. Ive looked at the guides and 
they give a range of between £7,000 and £7,800. So I think Markerstudys valuation of 
£8,500 for the car was more than fair. I note Mrs K is unhappy it initially only offered £7,400. 
But I dont think £7,400 was an unfair valuation. I think Markerstudy only increased the 
valuation as a genuine attempt to look to assist Mrs K. So I think it treated her more than 
fairly in this respect.
I note Mrs K is unhappy that Markerstudy kept increasing the salvage value on the car when 
it increased the cars value. Where a consumer wishes to keep a car the insurer has written 
off, the insurer can deduct the amount it would have received for selling the salvage. Its 
common practice for insurers to have agreements with companies wholl pay a percentage 
of the cars market value to buy the cars salvage. So its natural that if the cars market 
value increases, the salvage value will increase too. So I cant say Markerstudy acted 
unfairly in this respect.
Mrs K is also unhappy Markerstudy changed the salvage value percentage it was deducting 
off the value of the car. Markerstudy explained that the percentage of the cars value it 
receives for salvage changes with the cars market value  i.e. theres a different percentage 
depending on which price bracket the valuation fell within. I note she asked Markerstudy to 
provide details of how it calculated this. The call handler said she couldnt provide this for 
data protection reasons, which Mrs K didnt agree with. I agree with Mrs K that this wouldnt 
be considered protected data under GDPR, but it would be considered commercially 
sensitive data. So I dont think it was unfair that it wasnt willing to provide this. It was 
required to explain what the salvage value was for the car and it provided this information to 
her. I wouldnt expect it to provide any further information beyond this.
Ive thought about the fact Mrs K is unhappy Markerstudy should have looked into the 
manufacturer repair scheme sooner. And I can understand why Mrs K is unhappy about this. 
Ive discussed this with Markerstudy to understand how the scheme works. I understand its 
not guaranteed that the manufacturer will agree to Markerstudy using the scheme in every 
case and its reserved for where all damage is clearly accounted for. Markerstudy said that, there was a possibility in this case, given the nature of the impact, 
there could have been issues with the steering which could have added over £1,000 to the 
repair estimate. So, I dont think I can say it was a certainty that the scheme was an option 
and, from what Markerstudy have explained, it appears there was a high likelihood it 
wouldnt have been an option. Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable Markerstudy 
didnt explore this sooner. And it seems it only considered looking at this as an option as a 
further attempt to assist Mrs K. Ultimately, I cant say Markerstudy has treated Mrs K 
unreasonably in this respect.
Ive thought about Mrs Ks unhappiness that she wasnt given a courtesy car while the matter 
was ongoing. But the terms of Mrs Ks contract sets out that she was only entitled to a 
courtesy car while the car was being repaired by one of Markerstudys approved repairers. 
Given Markerstudy had chosen to settle the claim by paying the cars market value, Mrs K 
wasnt eligible for a courtesy car. And I can see Markerstudy offered Mrs K the increased 
market value of £8,360 within two weeks of the accident. So I dont think it caused 
unreasonable delays in the settlement of the claim. Ultimately, the claim took a long to be 
settled because Mrs K didnt agree with Markerstudys decision of how to settle the claim. 
But I cant hold Markerstudy responsible for this.
Finally Ive considered Mrs Ks concerns that her policy lapsed because of how long the 
claim took. She said this meant her renewal premium increased to £2,700. But, as I said 
above, I dont think Markerstudy unfairly delayed this claim. So I dont think Markerstudy is 
responsible for this.
Trouble and upset caused
Mrs K says this matter has caused a lot of distress and inconvenience. She says its made 
her become very unwell and ultimately meant she hasnt been able to work. Having spoken 
with Mrs K its clear shes found dealing with the claim very distressing and shes spent a lot 
of time dealing with it. I naturally sympathise with the situation shes in, but I can only require 
Markerstudy to compensate her for any distress and inconvenience its unfairly caused her.
As I said above, I think the majority of the distress and inconvenience shes suffered comes 
from the fact she strongly feels Markerstudy shouldnt have written her car off. But, as I said, 
I dont think it treated her unfairly in this respect. I can see its looked to explain its rationale 
for not wanting to repair the car a number of times. I also think Markerstudy has looked to 
help Mrs K as much as it was reasonably willing to do so throughout this matter. So I dont 
think it has unfairly caused this distress. And, it follows, that I dont think Markerstudy needs 
to compensate her for the amount of time shes spent looking to resolve the claim.
That said, I do think it caused some added distress in initially saying it would repair cars 
where the repair estimate was less than 70% of the market value, when in fact its 60%. I 
also think it could have been clearer in explaining why it wouldnt provide the salvage details. 
But Im not persuaded this has significantly added to the distress and inconvenience the 
claim itself had caused her.
I note Mrs K says she felt the person who handled the first claim call was rude. But this call 
was handled by the CMC  not Markerstudy. And, as I said above, this is being considered 
in a separate complaint. Ive listened to a number of telephone calls that Mrs K has had with 
Markerstudy and I think they treated Mrs K fairly. I acknowledge Mrs K strongly disagreed 
with the information she was being given and thinks the call handlers were lying to her. But I 
havent seen anything to support this.  Markerstudy has offered Mrs K £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused her. And I think this is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds 
compensation offer of £150 is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. It should pay this to her directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman