DRN-3540167
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) purchased 
shares at a different price to that quoted on its online trading platform. And that it didnt 
disclose the full costs involved.
What happened
Mr M has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He wanted to buy shares in a 
company which Ill refer to as K. He couldnt do this online, so he phoned HLAM to place 
an order to buy £15,000 worth of K shares. He says the price was showing as 44p, but the 
trade was placed at 45.5p. He says the only cost he was told about was the £50 phone 
dealing charge.
HLAM said that, due to the size of the order, its market counterparties couldnt quote at the 
touch price. They quoted at the volume weighted price of 45.5p, which Mr M accepted.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld and agreed with 
what HLAM had said.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
HLAM failed to tell him the costs of the trade before it was dealt. It should have 
aggregated all the costs into a percentage.
HLAM quoted him a higher sale price, but the bid (or purchase) price, hadnt moved. This 
price mark up should have been disclosed to him in monetary and percentage terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
When Mr M spoke to HLAM, the dealer told him that the price was indicating at 41-44, but 
that it was likely the price for him to purchase would be higher because of the number of 
shares he wanted to buy. Having contacted the market maker, the dealer told Mr M the price 
would be 45.5p. Mr M confirmed to the dealer that he wanted to go ahead with the trade at 
that price. Im satisfied that HLAM acted in line with its order handling policy and its 
regulatory obligations. The number of shares Mr M wanted to buy exceeded the shares 
normal market size. In situations like this, its not unusual that a price outside of the 
indicative spread would be obtained, if a market maker is prepared to deal at that size.
Mr M accepted the price before the order was dealt. Im satisfied he was given the 
opportunity not to proceed with the trade if he wasnt happy with the price hed been quoted.
Im satisfied that Mr H was quoted the telephone dealing charge of £50 twice during his 
phone call. Mr H chose to proceed with the deal, knowing how much he would be charged.
Mr M has told us in some detail why he thinks HLAM should have told him more about the 
bid/offer spread. Hes provided extracts of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, but 
these apply to insurance products so are not relevant here. 
HLAM acted as the agent in this trade. It obtained a quote from the market maker (or retail 
service provider (RSP). And it is the RSP who makes a turn on the bid/offer spread, not 
HLAM. I dont find HLAM made any profit or collected any fee from the trade, except for its 
£50 dealing commission which it disclosed before the trade went ahead.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman