DRN-4437129
The complaint
Ms E complains Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, closed her current account and 
reported her overdraft despite her suffering from severe vulnerabilities.
To keep things simple, I will mostly refer to Halifax in my decision. To put things right Ms E 
wants her credit file repaired, and for Halifax to re-open the same type of account she 
previously had with it.
What happened
In September 2022, Halifax wrote to Ms E to explain it had closed her account and that she 
owes it around £1,400. Halifax said no further interest or charges will be added to the 
balance. And information about the default on her account has been shared with credit 
reference agencies.
Unhappy with Halifaxs actions, Ms E complained. Halifax didnt uphold her complaint, and in 
summary said:
- The arranged overdraft was removed as a debt charity organisation (DC) sent 
Halifax a letter detailing Ms Es income and expenditure, and an offer to pay £1 a 
month. The arranged overdraft agreement was removed as this was seen as a new 
and long-term offer
- As Halifax accepted the long-term repayment plan from DC on Ms Es behalf, the 
account was closed ensuring all fees are permanently stopped whilst £1 payments 
are made each month
- Halifax needs to accurately report information to credit reference agencies to reflect 
Ms Es financial circumstances. A default will be shown for six years and will make it 
difficult for Ms E to get credit
Ms E then referred her complaint to this service. In its submissions to this service, Halifax 
made the following points:
- Halifax was aware Ms E didnt want to agree a £1 a month arrangement as per 
advice she was getting from DC. Halifax knew about Ms Es abusive relationship and 
the impact this was having on her including her mental health
- Halifax was happy to put repeated holds on the account, as Ms E felt she would 
return to full time work soon and resume normal use of the account with her 
overdraft.
But when Halifax received an offer of £1 from DC along with the income and 
expenditure report, it thought Ms E must have agreed to this. So Halifax started the 
process of passing the account to recoveries and recording the default
- But had Halifax learnt about Ms Es serious illness at the time alongside what it knew 
about her abusive relationship, it would have written the debt off to allow closure 
without default. As it knows more about her circumstances now, it is happy to 
write-off the debt and amend her credit file to show no adverse information relating to 
the bank account
- Due to system limitations Halifax cant reopen an account thats been closed. But if 
Ms E does want another account with Halifax, she can apply for one. If she is 
declined, Halifax will look at the appeal through communication with this service. But 
it cannot offer any certainty that one will be opened
Ms E was happy with Halifaxs offer to write-off her debt and amend her credit file. Our 
Investigator then sent Ms E their outcome. They said Halifaxs offer is fair, and it doesnt 
need to do anymore. They also added that if her application for a new account is declined, 
she can appeal that decision through this service.
Ms E then applied for a current account, but it was declined. Ms E was offered a basic bank 
account by Halifax, but she didnt want this type of account. Ms E said that as Halifax 
shouldnt have closed her account in the first place, it should open a similar current account 
to which she had before.
Halifax said the current account application was declined because records showed Ms E had 
a County Court Judgement (CCJ) registered against her in 2018.
Ms E reiterated that Halifax should re-open her account as it failed to consider her 
circumstances especially as she pleaded with it about her ill health. Ms E added that most of 
her recent defaults are because Halifax closed her account, and she couldnt meet standing 
orders and direct debit payments.
Ms E accepts she has a CCJ from 2018, but says she is disputing its validity with a 
third-party credit card company. Ms E also says she has had a basic bank account before, 
and it prevented her accessing many payment services.
As Ms E didnt agree her complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent both parties my 
provisional decision and set a deadline for them to make any further comments and give me 
evidence to consider. 
My provisional decision 
Here is what I said I was planning on deciding: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding Ms Es complaint in part. I know Ms E feels 
strongly about her complaint, so Ill explain why. Id also like to assure her that Ive very 
carefully considered her personal circumstances for the period shes complaining about. Id 
like to add that I dont underestimate how difficult and challenging the circumstances she
has, and is still, going through must be.
After this complaint was referred to this service, Halifax altered its position from that of its 
final response letter. It said that had it known about Ms Es severe ill health in addition to 
what it already knew about her abusive relationship and the impact this was having on her, it 
would likely have written off her debt, not defaulted her, and closed the account.Halifax have sent me its internal records which show it noted her abusive relationship as a 
vulnerability in September 2021. And that it only noted the serious illness in 
September 2022. Ms E says she told Halifax around the time it said it would be closing her 
account about her serious illness.
I note that prior to September 2022, Halifax was happy to keep the account open and agree 
arrangements with Ms E with the view that she will be able to maintain her account better 
once she was able to return to work. But Halifax accepted DCs offer of Ms E paying £1 a 
month as a variation away from this. And that intervention was the catalyst for it to move 
ahead with its normal process to close the account, default it and cease any further interest 
and charges.
I havent seen any evidence Ms E told Halifax about her serious illness before it decided to 
close her account. The extensive call notes Ive seen from Halifaxs internal systems from 
March 2021 suggest this was only discussed after its decision to close the account. The 
notes show Halifax did know Ms E was unwell, and that she was suffering with significant 
mental health issues. But I havent seen any note which shows Ms E told Halifax about her 
more serious illness upon which it later says it would have acted differently upon.
Even if I were to accept Ms E did tell Halifax beforehand, its decision later to treat Ms E in 
line with how it would of by writing off the debt and not registering the debt, is more than I 
would expect it to do.
I say that because, given Ms Es vulnerabilities, Im persuaded that working with her in terms 
of payment arrangements whilst not defaulting her account would have been fair. But Halifax 
has completely written off Ms Es £1,400 debt  something that would likely have taken 
considerable time and effort for her to pay off. Halifax also has removed any adverse credit 
file information related to the account.
As Ms E accepted this part of her complaint as resolved, I dont need to make any further 
findings on the debt and credit file reporting related to the account. So this brings me to the 
crux of Ms Es complaint. That is, Halifaxs decision to close her account and decline her 
application for the same type of account she had before.
Halifaxs internal technical records show Ms E had an Easycash account from July 2012 
until it changed to Reward current account in August 2017. In June 2020 till closure the 
account was a standard current account.
Ive closely looked at the differences in services between a current account and a basic bank 
account. Ive also noted that Ms E says a current account gives her greater access to 
payment methods. But I dont see significant differences between a current and basic 
accounts capability to make payments as they both have contactless and online capabilities.
It's unfortunate Halifax are not able to re-open the account as it was given its system 
limitations after they were migrated as part of its merger with its now parent company. But 
the action to write-off the debt and not default it would have resulted in the account being 
closed in any event.
So given I dont see significant differences between a current and basic accounts capability 
to make payments, Im persuaded the offer to open a basic account is a fair resolution of 
Ms Es complaint.
I also note that by Halifax writing off the debt, and removing the default, her application for a 
new account would still likely be affected by a CCJ registered in 2018 in any case. Ms E 
says she is disputing this CCJ. I dont know what information the court took into account when registering this CCJ, nor if Ms E was still subject to any of her vulnerabilities at that 
point - and whether she had told the court about this.
But based on what I do know, Im still persuaded opening a basic bank account as 
replacement to a current account is a fair and reasonable outcome to resolving this 
complaint. Thats in addition to what Halifax has already done
As the deadline for further submissions has passed, and neither party have made further 
comment or provided evidence for me to consider, I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons in my provisional decision  as above  I uphold this 
complaint in part. Halifax have already taken pro-active action I think is more than I would 
have recommended it to do to put things right. 
It is also now up to Ms E to decide if she wishes to take up Halifaxs offer to open her a basic 
bank account. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. As Bank of Scotland plc has already 
taken pro-active action given Ms Es vulnerabilities, I dont direct it to take any further 
remedial action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman