DRN-4369228
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain West Bay Insurance Plc hasnt covered all the damage to their 
property which they consider to have been caused by a storm.
Mr and Mrs B are being represented on this complaint, but for ease, any reference to Mr B
includes the actions and comments of their representative.
And any reference to West Bay includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive 
summarised events.
Following a storm, Mr Bs property was damaged. West Bay accepted that the
damage to his propertys roofs tiles was caused by a storm. But said the storm
wasnt the main cause of damage to the adjoining car port because the joists showed
signs of gradual wear and tear. And so, it said it wouldnt cover this part of the claim.
Unhappy, Mr B brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but
was satisfied West Bay could reasonably rely on its surveyors report to decline
cover. The complaint was closed, and Mr B was advised that if he provided further,
new information to West Bay and subsequently, this Service, we might be able to
consider it.
Mr B arranged for his own contractor to give an opinion on the structure of the car
port, cause of damage and to provide a quote for the repair. And he instructed a
surveyor to review the damage. That surveyor concluded the storm was the main
cause of the damage and so, Mr B asked this Service to investigate the complaint in
light of this new evidence.
An Investigator considered it and recommended a third independent surveying report
be commissioned as both parties experts had provided persuasive findings.
Both parties provided responses explaining why they didnt agree with the
Investigators outcome and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an
Ombudsmans decision.
Having considered things, I issued a provisional decision, in which I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct West Bay to accept the
claim as Im satisfied the main cause of damage to Mr Bs car port was a storm. Ill
explain why.
Mr B says the polycarbonate roof of his car port lifted following a storm, and that this
caused damage to the lead flashing that goes around the perimeter.
Its accepted there were storm conditions at the time of loss, and that the damage is
consistent with that which could be caused by a storm. So, I dont need to consider
these issues further. But the parties disagree as to whether the storm was the main
cause of the damage or whether it simply highlighted a pre-existing issue with the car
port.
Its not in dispute 3 of the 21 timber joists - to which the polycarbonate roof was fixed
- had been affected by dry rot. But the parties disagree as to the relevance of this
when deciding if the damage is covered.
Both parties have provided expert reports to support their positions. In summary,
Mr Bs surveyor said the proximate cause of the damage was the storm conditions
lifting the polycarbonate roof sheets. And that the three joists affected by rot on and
before the incident date had little or no bearing on the roof sheet damage.
Conversely, West Bays surveyor said the joists affected by rot would have caused a
weakening of the timbers and was the most likely cause of the roof lifting. It said the
rot was unlikely to have appeared between the date the claim was made (29 January
2022) and its surveyors visit in early April 2022. So, the surveyor was satisfied the
damage had occurred gradually and was therefore, not covered under the policy.
Our Investigator considered both reports to be persuasive and so, recommended a
third, independent surveyor, be instructed to reach a definitive outcome. But I dont
think thats necessary here as Im more persuaded by Mr Bs surveyors findings. Ill
explain why.
Of note is the surveyors finding that if the rotten joist had been the prevalent cause
of failure, he would have expected the fittings to have also been pulled from the soft
and rotten timbers, but that didnt happen. He explains that there were two other
rotten joists but that the roof didnt detach at these points, so he doesnt consider the
rotten timbers to have a bearing on the claim.
Additionally, the surveyor explains that all other joists showed acceptable levels of
moisture content for external timbers, and that the joist which is the most important
fixing  at the end of the structure  is clearly in sound condition.
Conversely, West Bays surveyors report provides a limited explanation as to why
the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage, saying: The timbers in the roof are
showing signs of dry rot suggesting damage by ingress and The heavy winds have
highlighted poor conditions of the timbers which caused the integrity to be weaker.
Whilst Im satisfied both surveyors are suitably qualified to give an opinion on the
matter, Mr Bs surveyor has provided a more comprehensive and detailed opinion as
to why the storm was the main cause of damage, and so, Im more persuaded the
damage should be covered.
West Bay has said temporary repairs had been completed to the car port by the time
Mr Bs surveyor attended, but I note from its expert report that these temporaryrepairs were in place when its surveyor visited as the report says, Roofing has been
screwed back down as an emergency measure. So, Im not persuaded the
temporary repairs having been completed means Mr Bs surveyors report cant
reasonably be relied on.
Whilst I recognise Mr Bs surveyor attended 14 months after the date of loss and so,
the damage might have worsened by this time  the surveyor ultimately, agreed
some of the timbers had rotted, which is the same finding West Bays surveyor made
when they attended a couple of months after the date of loss. So, again, I dont
consider the fact Mr Bs surveyor attended a year after West Bays insurer to make a
material difference in this complaint.
West Bay said Mr Bs surveyors report incorrectly states that the car port had been
in existence for 15  20 years prior to the date of loss, but that a street view image of
the property, taken in 2012, shows it wasnt in situ. Ive looked at the same image
and can clearly see the car port attached to Mr Bs property, so Im not persuaded
this argument carries any weight.
The dispute brought to this Service was whether West Bay should accept the claim in
respect of the car port. Im satisfied it should, and so, its now for the two parties to
agree how to settle it according to the remaining policy terms.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and intend to direct West Bay
Insurance Plc to accept the claim.
Both parties replied to my provisional findings. Mr B agreed with the outcome, but West Bay 
had further commentary it wanted me to consider. In summary it said: 
It had partially accepted the claim under the storm peril and offered a cash settlement 
for some of the works. 
It agreed there was little to be gained from obtaining a third report from an 
independent surveyor. 
Whilst it accepted  based on Mr Bs surveyors findings - the argument for covering 
the replacement of the polycarbonate panels, it didnt think it should be responsible 
for covering the costs of replacing the entire timber frame. Its argument being that   
Mr Bs surveyor said the frame was in good condition apart from three joists affected 
by rot but which wouldnt have contributed to the damage. And so, it wanted 
clarification on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay want me to clarify what Im asking it to do and has pointed out that the quote 
provided by Mr B includes replacing the timber frame. As I made clear in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied the lifting of the polycarbonate roof was because of a storm  and 
thats the aspect of the claim West Bay needs to accept and look at. 
Its a matter for the two parties as to how the insurer settles the claim as its only obligation under the policy terms is to repair or replace the damage. So, this will require an assessment 
of what was damaged when the car port roof lifted and what needs to be repaired or 
replaced as a result. If West Bay wants to reinspect the property to determine this it can do 
so, but at this point, all Im saying is the lifting of the roof is insured under the storm peril and 
West Bay, therefore, cant reject it on the basis it has  namely, that the damage was caused 
by dry rot which had happened gradually. 
So, the next step is for West Bay to determine a scope of works for the insured damage and 
to get in touch with Mr and Mrs B about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay to accept the claim in 
respect of the car port roof. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman