DRN-3353677
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited closed out his foreign exchange 
(forex) positions, causing him a significant financial loss.
What happened
Mr C held a number of forex positions with Saxo. He anticipated that there might be margin 
calls in March 2020 and tried several times to fund his account using his credit card. But his 
payments werent accepted. He says this is because of a problem with Saxos systems. 
Mr C then closed one of his positions on 18 March 2020 in a further attempt to avoid a 
margin call. But there was still a margin call, with Saxo closing out all of Mr Cs forex 
positions, crystallising a loss of around 6,000 euros. Mr C says Saxo incorrectly calculated 
his margin utilisation and the close-out should not have happened. 
In response, Saxo said the credit card payments didnt go through because of risk issues 
raised by the credit card providers  they said this wasnt their fault. And they said theyd 
correctly calculated Mr Cs margin utilisation and it was appropriate to close his positions.
Because Mr C wasnt happy with Saxos response he brought his complaint to our service. 
The investigator concluded that Saxo hadnt acted unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. 
But Mr C remained unhappy. He didnt think our investigator had properly considered his 
calculations. He said that Saxos calculations had used values from different points in time. 
And he felt Saxo hadnt acted reasonably as required by their own terms and conditions  he 
pointed out that Saxo could have closed one of his positions to meet the margin 
requirements instead of all of them. Mr C asked for a decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr C but Ill explain why. 
Failed credit card payments
From what Ive seen, it seems like Saxo were having some issues with their credit card 
system at the time Mr C was trying to fund his account  on a call, one of Saxos 
representatives said the credit card module wasnt opening. And in a later email she said: 
 has confirmed that the issue with depositing via card is solved. You can try to deposit via 
card again.
However, I dont think this accounts for all of the failed credit card payments. Saxos system 
print shows three attempts which successfully came into their system but were then refused 
because the risk score was high. This happens when incorrect information has been entered 
 whether its the wrong dates or card security code, or multiple password attempts. 
Saxos system also shows about ten other payments which are shown as redirected. Saxo 
explained that this is where the payment is not completed properly from the clients bank 
side of things or there are other issues while executing this payment. Its not clear therefore 
exactly why these payment attempts didnt succeed, but I cant say its Saxos fault that all 
Mr Cs payment attempts were unsuccessful.
Accuracy of margin calculations
Ive reviewed Saxos margin calculations. I know Mr C thinks there are timing differences 
within the calculation. He also thinks Saxo havent taken account of the position he closed 
shortly before the margin call. But from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Saxo calculated 
margin correctly at the time of the margin call. Im not explaining this further here because 
our investigator set out and explained the calculation in detail in his view.
I can see Mr C has attempted to calculate the margin himself and would like our service to 
comment on his calculations. Mr Cs calculation is more a reverse engineering exercise so 
cant be directly compared. It isnt entirely clear and seems to include some inconsistencies. 
I have considered it carefully but Im not persuaded by it. I can understand Mr Cs view that 
the margin utilisation percentages moved more quickly than expected. But the markets do 
often move quickly and, having reviewed both calculations, Im persuaded thats whats 
happened here. The margin call has been caused by the market movements and not by 
incorrect calculations. 
Saxos decision to close all positions
Saxos terms and conditions allow them to close a clients positions when their account 
doesnt meet the margin requirement. The relevant term says: It is your responsibility to 
ensure that sufficient Margin is available on your Account at any timeyou are obliged to 
reduce the amount of open Margin Trades or transfer adequate funds to us. Even if you take 
steps to reduce the size of open Margin Trades or to transfer sufficient funds to us, if we 
reasonable [sic] consider that you may not be able to meet your obligations to us under 
these terms we reserve the right to close one, several or all of your Margin Trades or part of 
a Margin Trade and/or liquidate or sell Securities or other property on your Account.
Its common practice on contract for difference accounts like Mr Cs that all trades are closed 
when a customer fails to meet their margin requirements. And Saxos terms allow for that. 
When I asked them in what circumstances they might not close all positions, they said this 
would only apply if a clients account was on partial liquidation setup. So although the 
wording refers to one, several or all, Saxos practice in Mr Cs circumstances would always 
be to close all positions. 
I can understand Mr Cs perspective  he felt he was doing everything he could to try to fund 
his account, and had given Saxo no reason to think he might not. But, given that his account 
breached the margin requirements and Saxo acted within their terms, I cant say that they 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing Mr Cs positions. The close-out will have been 
automated and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Saxo to consider each individual clients 
margin calls on a position by position basis.
Summary
Taking everything together, I cant say Saxo have acted unfairly or unreasonably. Its 
unfortunate that Mr Cs credit card deposits didnt work, and that the markets moved 
significantly in a short space of time which led to the margin call  but I cant say that was 
Saxos fault. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Saxo Capital Markets UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman