DRN-4034053
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited caused delays in her claim 
made on her motor insurance policy, and this left her without a courtesy car for ten days. 
What happened
Mrs As car was damaged in an accident. Advantage initially said the car was a total loss, 
but it later said it was repairable after Mrs A submitted photographs. The car was collected 
for repairs and Mrs A was provided with a courtesy car ten days after the accident. 
Advantage said it had caused delays initially and it paid Mrs A £80 compensation for this. 
But it said that, due to the holiday period, it wouldnt have been able to provide a courtesy 
car any sooner. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had caused the initial delay, but it had compensated Mrs A sufficiently for this. 
And he thought it had provided Mrs A with a courtesy car in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. 
Mrs A replied that her holiday plans had been upset by Advantages level of service. She 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the disruption to Mrs As holiday. I can understand that dealing with 
the aftermath of the accident and her claim must have been a stressful and frustrating 
experience for her.
I can see that Advantage accepts that it made errors in the handling of Mrs As claim. It 
initially said Mrs As car was likely to be a total loss and this caused a delay in the claim. It 
initially told Mrs A that she couldnt use her own garage to have her cars repairs assessed. 
It later said this wasnt correct. It also sent Mrs A an email stating that her car was a total 
loss after it had decided that it was repairable. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Advantage said Mrs As car was repairable two days after the accident. Mrs A 
then decided to use Advantages approved repairer as it wouldnt provide a courtesy car if 
she used her own repairer. Im satisfied that this is in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions as stated on page 11 of the policy booklet:
The replacement car service is only available if you are making a claim under Section 1 
or 2 of the policy and the repair is being done by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
The replacement car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
The service is only available while your Car is being repaired
Advantages approved repairer collected Mrs As car and provided her with a courtesy car 
ten days after the accident. Mrs A was without transport during this time. But I cant 
reasonably hold Advantage fully responsible for this as this included the holiday period when 
the garage was closed. And Im satisfied that Advantage promptly referred the car to its 
repairer after it was deemed to be repairable, and it was collected within a reasonable 
timescale. But Im satisfied Advantage was responsible for the initial delay until its engineers 
reviewed the photographs provided by Mrs A. 
Mrs A thought that if she had taken her car to her garage for assessment earlier, then 
Advantage could have instructed repairs before the holiday period so that she would have 
had a courtesy car. But Im not persuaded that this would have been likely as the car would 
still have had to be collected by the approved repairer and Advantages timescale for this is 
three to five days. So, although I can understand Mrs As frustration that her holiday was 
upset, I cant hold Advantage responsible for this. 
Mrs A also thought Advantage shouldnt have initially classed her car as a total loss. But 
from what I can see, Advantage said this was likely from Mrs As description of the damage. 
And I dont think its unusual for insurers to use online tools to decide the likely outcome of 
claims. This would later be confirmed when the car was collected and assessed by its 
engineers. And I think Advantage reasonably offered to consider Mrs As photographs and 
repairs estimate from her garage. 
Advantage paid Mrs A £80 compensation for the delay and the impact of its incorrect email 
and incorrect information. I think Advantage promptly corrected the errors when they were 
brought to its attention, and I think this restored Mrs As position. And I think its 
compensation was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the 
level of impact the errors had. I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman