DRN-3458871
The complaint
Miss B and Mr Q has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) never explained to them 
that if they kept their Platinum Service account balance above a certain amount, theyd not 
have to pay the monthly account fee.
What happened
Lloyds wrote to Miss B and Mr Q to explain that it will be removing all fee-waivers from the 
Platinum Service account. Miss B and Mr Q say they were unaware that this was ever an 
option available to them, so they complained to Lloyds as they say they wouldve recently 
made use of this feature had they been made aware of it. Lloyds didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Miss B and Mr Q disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything that is available. 
And having considered everything, overall, Ive not seen enough to say that Lloyds did act 
unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Lloyds says that Miss B and Mr Q were sold the Platinum Service account in April 2002. 
However, due to the large timescales involved, unsurprisingly Lloyds has not been able to 
provide evidence from the time to show what mayve been discussed with Miss B and Mr Q 
when the account was sold to them. So I have considered the likelihood of whether Miss B 
and Mr Q were not told about the fee-waiver on the Platinum Service account.
Overall, based on the evidence that is available, I think that it is likely they were told about 
this feature. The reason why I say this is because firstly, I cant see any reason why the 
feature of the account would not have been mentioned. Afterall, it wouldve been in Lloyds 
interest to point out all the features of the account to make it seem attractive to Miss B and 
Mr Q, so that theyd agree to it.
In addition to this, having looked through the historic account literature that was provided to 
Platinum Service account holders around the time that itd been sold to Miss B and Mr Q, I 
can see that these do make it clear that a fee-waiver was a feature of the account at the 
time. And from sample letters it appears that Lloyds did write to all existing Platinum Service 
account holders in April 2004 to explain that the fee-wavier amount was increasing from 
£3,500 to £4,000.
Im also mindful that the account was sold to Miss B and Mr Q 20 years ago. So I cant rule 
out the possibility that they were told about it, but they had simply forgotten it had ever been 
a feature. 
I say this especially as it seems that Lloyds stopped offering the fee-waiver benefit to new 
customers from late 2004. This explains why the fee-waiver benefit may not have been 
mentioned when Lloyds notified account holders about changes being made to the account 
after 2004. And although Lloyds has been required to send Miss B and Mr Q annual 
eligibility statements (AES) since 2013, Lloyds was obliged to only address the insurance 
features of the account in those statements  which again explains why the fee-waiver was 
not mentioned in any of the AES letters that were sent to them. 
Overall, I do understand Miss B and Mr Qs frustration, especially as they say they had the 
means to meet the fee-waiver criteria in more recent times whilst they held the Platinum 
account. But based on everything I have seen, Ive not seen enough to say that Lloyds likely 
did fail to explain the fee-waiver feature when Miss B and Mr Q took out the account in April 
2002.
As such, in the circumstances, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund the 
Platinum account fees that Miss B and Mr Q have paid.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman