DRN-3493569
The complaint
Mr S complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) took too long to transfer shares 
into his account. He lost out on the opportunity to save capital gains tax on the sale of his 
shares. He wants compensation for his loss, and for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused.
What happened
Mr S receives shares, which Ill refer to as A, from his employer. He wanted to transfer 
some of those A shares into his HSDL account, and from there transfer them into his wifes 
account so that, when he wanted to sell them, he could utilise her annual capital gains tax 
(CGT) allowance.
He says he requested a transfer in January 2021, but it wasnt completed until May 2021, 
after the tax year had ended.
He needed to sell A shares to realise money for house improvements. The transfer hadnt 
been completed, so he says he incurred a CGT liability.
HSDL said it was responsible for the delay in transferring the shares and paid him £500.
Our investigator thought £500 was fair to compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But he concluded Mr S should also be compensated for the loss hed 
incurred  hed had to pay CGT which he wouldnt have incurred if the transfer hadnt been 
delayed.
HSDL didnt agree. It said, if the transfer hadnt been delayed, its unlikely the transfer to 
Mr Ss wifes account would have completed before the end of the tax year. It explained why, 
saying, in summary, that if the stock had been received in Mr Ss account on 24 March 2021, 
he would have needed to have requested an internal transfer to his wifes account. Her 
account hadnt been fully activated and she would have needed to complete and return a 
customer application form before the transfer could be completed. So it didnt agree it should 
reimburse Mr S for any CGT he had to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is only about the transfer instructions Mr S gave in January 2021. Hed also 
instructed HSDL to transfer shares in 2020, but that does not form part of this complaint.
HSDL didnt respond to our request for its file. It has only provided some limited information 
in response to our investigators view. As the evidence is incomplete, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr S requested the transfer of shares in January 2021. The employee stock plan 
administrator contacted HSDL on 29 January 2021 to coordinate the transfer. The transfer 
didnt take place until May 2021. I can see Mr S told HSDL that it was important the transfer 
took place before the end of the tax year. And he was in regular contact with HSDL to try to 
find out what was happening  I can see he contacted it at least 20 times, but only received 
acknowledgements and no information about the transfer. 
Following Mr Ss complaint, HSDL told him that, HSDL has solely contributed to the delays 
in your transfer. There has been a clear service issued identified.. And it offered him £500 
which I consider is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
But I also need to decide whether the delay  which HSDL says was solely its fault  
resulted in Mr S having to pay CGT on the sale of his shares. Or whether, as HSDL claims, 
the shares wouldnt have been transferred in time if it hadnt caused the delay.
Firstly, Im satisfied Mr S needed to sell the shares. He told us he needed the money for 
home renovations, and he sold the shares for this purpose on 16 April 2021.
Ive thought about what HSDL has told us. The shares were being transferred to Mr Ss 
account and then needed to be transferred to his wifes account  which still needed to be 
fully set up  before they could be sold without incurring CGT. HSDL suggests the earliest it 
could have received the shares in Mr Ss account was 24 March. But, as the other party had 
let HSDL know it was ready to move the shares on 29 January, I think its more likely than 
not that there was enough time for everything to have been completed before the end of the 
tax year if HSDL had not caused a delay. In coming to this conclusion, Ive taken into 
account that Mr S had told HSDL what he planned to do. So it was reasonable to expect 
HSDL to set out the likely timescales for him and tell him at the outset if it didnt think hed 
given his instruction in enough time. 
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that HSDL should reimburse Mr S for any 
CGT liability he had to pay following the sale of the shares on 16 April 2021. 
Putting things right
Mrs S has provided evidence of the CGT he paid in 2020/2021. But the CGT liability for this 
sale will fall in the 2021/2022 tax year. Mr S hasnt been able to provide this figure to date.
On receipt of evidence from Mr S, Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr S the CGT 
he has, or had, to pay on the 16 April 2021 sale of his A shares. HSDL should be mindful 
that the tax payable may not be clear until Mr S has submitted his tax return for the tax year 
2021/2022.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay interest on the amount it pays Mr S at 8% simple 
per annum from the date Mr S paid the CGT, to the date of settlement, to reflect the time 
hes been without the money.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr S £500, if it hasnt already done so, to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman