DRN-4187042
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Usay Business Limited mis-sold her personal private medical 
insurance policies.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events.
In November 2019, Mrs L spoke with Usays adviser. She explained that she had private 
medical insurance with a company Ill call S and that shed been insured prior to that with a 
company Ill call V. She told the adviser that S premiums had gone up.
During the call, Usays adviser asked Mrs L questions about her existing cover. Mrs L 
indicated that shed been insured on switch terms with S and had had private medical 
insurance cover for many years. She also discussed the fact that she had had hypertension 
and high blood pressure for a few years.
Based on what Mrs L had said, the adviser recommended that she should take out a policy 
with an insurer Ill call A, on switch terms. This meant that the cover shed held with S (and 
priorly V) would continue on the same terms with A. Mrs L accepted the advisers 
recommendation and agreed to take out the policy with A. The new policy charged lower 
premiums than the price set out in S renewal quote.
Mrs L was asked to send in a policy certificate which showed the level of cover she held with 
S. Unfortunately, it appears that Mrs L sent in her husbands policy certificate. This wasnt 
picked up by Usay, which sent on the certificate to A. However, A didnt notice the error 
either and the policy was set-up accordingly. Had the error been noticed, Usay wouldve 
been in a position to note that Mrs L hadnt taken out continuing cover with S previously 
when shed moved from V to S. Instead, shed begun a new moratorium with it. Shed opted 
to add on hypertension cover as additional extra. But under the new policy with A, Mrs L no 
longer had hypertension cover in place.
In November 2020, Usay recommended that Mrs L should move her policy with A back to V 
 again on switch terms. This was intended to protect her existing medical cover. Mrs L 
accepted the recommendation and a new policy began.
Unfortunately, Mrs L needed to make a claim on the policy with V for hypertension, which 
was turned down, due to the moratorium terms. And it was at this point that Mrs L realised
that the wrong policy certificate had been sent to A at the outset. Therefore, she realised that  
she didnt have hypertension cover either with V or priorly with A.
So Mrs L complained to Usay, because she felt that it had recommended she take out worse 
cover than shed held with S. She was also unhappy because she said it ought to have 
noticed that shed sent in the wrong policy certificate. She stated shed told Usay that she 
had hypertension and high cholesterol and that shed been told she had cover in place. She 
said if shed known she wouldnt have cover for hypertension on either the policy with A or V, 
shed have remained with S.
Usay didnt agree that the policies had been mis-sold to Mrs L. It said it had no reason to 
know that she held separate cover for hypertension with S, as its advisers had understood 
shed had continuing private medical insurance for many years. So it felt its 
recommendations had been suitable, based on the information the advisers had had. It 
acknowledged that it hadnt picked-up that Mrs L had sent in the wrong policy certificate, but 
it said that as A was ultimately responsible for the underwriting of the policy, it didnt think it 
was responsible for the error.
Mrs L asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She didnt think either of the 
advisers ought to have been put on notice that Mrs L had taken out a new moratorium with 
S, or that shed had add-on hypertension cover. And she felt that, ultimately, A was 
responsible for not noticing the error with the policy documentation.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I intended to partly uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I said:
The sale of the policies
Its common ground that Usay advised Mrs L to take out the policy with A in 2019 and the 
policy with V in 2020. This means it needed to carry out an assessment of her demands and 
needs and to make suitable recommendations based on the information it was given. So Ive 
first considered whether I think it met its obligations on this point.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs L and Usays advisers. During the 2019 calls, Mrs L 
consistently told the adviser that shed held private medical insurance for some years. She 
stated that her policy with S had been taken out on a switch basis, which meant that her 
policy was taken out on the same medical terms as her old policy with V. Mrs L did discuss 
her medical conditions and medications with the adviser and explained shed had the 
conditions for four to five years.
As Mrs L told Usay that shed had cover for a number of years and that that cover had 
moved from V to S on a switch basis, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude that 
Mrs Ls conditions were likely covered under her existing terms by V and S. And so I dont 
think it was unfair for the advisers to have recommended a new switch policy to A or V, 
because that would mean her medical cover would remain the same with both insurers. I 
dont think either adviser was given any information which ought reasonably to have put 
them on notice either that the policy with S had, in fact, been set-up as a new moratorium 
rather than a switch, or that Mrs L had taken out add-on hypertension cover with S. This 
means I dont think theyd have had reason to have known that Mrs Ls conditions wouldnt 
be covered under her new policies.
It seems to me, having listened to the calls, that the main reason Mrs L sought to move her 
policy from S to A (and then from A to V) was to bring down the policy price. The 
recommendations the advisers made to Mrs L appear to have met this objective, And it 
appears that information was sent to Mrs L about the way the policies worked promptly and 
in good time.
On that basis then, I dont think I could fairly find that Usays advisers could have known, 
during the sales calls, that Mrs L didnt have continuing medical cover with S, nor that shed 
purchased add-on hypertension cover with it. So I dont currently think I could reasonably conclude that Usay gave Mrs L unsuitable advice to take switch her policies, first to A and 
then to V.
During the 2019 sale, Usays adviser asked Mrs L to send a copy of her policy 
documentation relating to the contract she held with S. They made it clear that Mrs L didnt 
need to provide her husbands policy documents. I appreciate Mrs L says she sent in a copy 
of her own certificate, along with a copy of her husbands. However, Usays records do 
indicate that it only received the documentation which related to Mrs Ls husband. So its 
possible that Mrs Ls own certificate wasnt received by Usay and that it therefore wasnt in a 
position to send this on to A.
Nonetheless, in my view, the policy certificate Usay did receive clearly related to Mrs Ls 
husband. And I think this ought to have been clear to whoever processed the document and 
sent it on to A. Instead, Usays adviser told Mrs L that her policy documents had been 
received and said, What weve got is perfect. They followed up later by telling Mrs L that 
shed sent through all the right stuff.
I agree that the ultimate underwriting decision was down to A and its clear that it didnt 
notice the paperwork error. So it wouldnt be fair to hold Usay entirely responsible for the 
outcome of the failure to identify that Mrs Ls policy was set-up in the absence of her own 
information. However, it seems to me that had Usay identified that Mrs L had sent in her 
husbands certificate, she wouldve had an opportunity to provide her own certificate 
(potentially for the second time). And if this had happened, I think Usay could and wouldve 
been put on notice not just that Mrs L had in fact taken a new moratorium with S, but also 
that she had add-on hypertension cover. This wouldve potentially made the existing 
recommendation wrong for Mrs L and so Usay could have been in a position to explore 
further options with her. Instead this didnt happen and Mrs L took out policies which 
ultimately provided her with less cover than shed had before. I think too that it was 
reasonable for Mrs L to rely on the advisers confirmation that Usay had the information it 
needed to set-up a switch policy with A and that everything was in order.
So I now need to think about a fair way for Usay to put things right. Mrs L has told us that if 
shed known that she had a new moratorium policy and that neither A nor V could offer her 
hypertension cover, shed have stayed with S. This indicates that she wouldnt have taken 
out either policy through Usay. However, on the specific facts of this case, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to direct Usay to refund the premiums Mrs L paid for the policies with A 
and V. I say that because by Mrs Ls account, shed have remained with S  which charged 
a higher premium than she paid for the cover with A and V. This means that she didnt lose 
out financially though the payment of premiums to A and V which were lower than shed 
otherwise have paid if shed stayed with S. So I dont think shes paid more for less cover  
instead, she hasnt made a financial loss in respect of the premiums she paid.
Mrs L tells us too that she decided against private treatment for hypertension and instead, is 
undergoing treatment on the NHS, So I dont think shes shown shes actually incurred any 
medical costs which would have otherwise been covered by the policy with S. I appreciate 
Mrs L would like me to ensure that shes provided with hypertension cover in the future, but 
this isnt something Im able to award here. Thats because Usay isnt an underwriter and it 
cant offer private medical insurance itself. Neither can Usay tell an insurer to provide 
specific cover which the insurer may have chosen to exclude.
In my view, Mrs L has been caused clear material distress and inconvenience by Usays 
failure to fully check her policy documentation and to let her know that shed provided the 
wrong information. I think this mistake contributed to the overall underwriting errors which 
were made. I dont doubt how upsetting it was for Mrs L when she learned that she didnt 
have the cover she thought shed had and that she was unlikely to be able to source such cover in the future. If Usay had fully checked the documentation, I think this error may well 
have been avoided. So I currently think it would be fair and reasonable for Usay to pay Mrs L 
£300 to reflect the trouble and upset I think its administrative error is likely to have caused 
her.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Usay accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs L did not and Ive summarised her response. She felt Id overlooked important 
information. She said the policy shed previously held with V was a company policy and 
when shed retired, shed taken out a new policy with S. This hadnt been a switch. Usay had 
cold-called her with a sales pitch, offering a better policy than shed held with S at the same 
price. She wasnt considering reducing her premiums. 
Usay asked her to send her policy schedule to continue moratorium cover on the new policy. 
She insists that she sent both her own schedule and her husbands schedule to it. Usay had 
a duty of care to check the information it sent to A  had Usay checked any of the 
information, it wouldve realised she had cover for hypertension with Saga. And Usay had 
sent on the schedule to A. She felt that the policy has to have been mis-sold because the 
policy wasnt set up with her details. There was no indication on the policy schedule that 
hypertension was an additional add-on with S, so it hadnt been unreasonable for Mrs L to 
conclude that hypertension would also be included in the policy with A. 
Mrs L referred to Usays adviser specifically mentioning that she Mrs L had hypertension and 
high cholesterol, so she considered that they must have been reading from Mrs Ls 
documents. She felt that Usays mistakes had taken away her medical choices for the rest of 
her life, as it was almost impossible to take out cover for hypertension. Mrs L considered that 
given the size of Usays business, she was sure that it would know of an underwriter which 
could provide cover for hypertension and that it could pay for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I still find the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for Usay to pay her compensation of £300 and Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered all that Mrs L has said and sent me. Within this final decision 
though, I havent commented on each point shes made and nor do our rules require me to. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Its clear Mrs L feels strongly that Usays advisers wrongly recommended that she take out a 
switch policy with A. But it still seems to me that based on the information Usays adviser 
was given at the outset, it was reasonable for them to have understood that Mrs L had had 
cover for her existing medical conditions for some years. And I also think it was fair for the 
adviser to have concluded that cover for those conditions had been included on the policy 
with S, because theyd understood that Mrs Ls policy had moved from V to S on a switch 
basis. If that had been the case, then by setting up a new policy with A on a switch basis, 
Mrs L wouldve continued to be insured for any existing conditions under the terms of the 
new policy. I simply dont think the advisers were given any information during the sale of 
either policy to indicate that Mrs L had taken out add-on cover for hypertension with S, which 
wouldnt be included as part of the switch to A, or that shed taken out a new moratorium with S, rather than continuation cover.
Mrs L maintains that she sent copies of both her own and her husbands policy schedules to 
Usay for onward forward to A. As Ive said in my provisional decision, I accept its possible 
that Mrs L did send both certificates to Usay. However, Usays records show that it only 
received Mrs Ls husbands certificate. Im satisfied therefore that it most likely didnt receive 
a copy of Mrs Ls own certificate. 
As I set out in my provisional findings, in my view, the information set out on Mrs Ls 
husbands policy certificate was clear enough that it ought to have put Usay on notice that 
the details on it didnt relate to Mrs L. And I remain persuaded that had it picked-up on the 
fact that the policy certificate didnt relate to Mrs Ls own existing policy, then its likely Mrs L 
wouldve been given an opportunity to (re)send a copy of her own certificate. Had this 
happened, I still find its likely that Usays advisers wouldve been put on notice that Mrs L 
had add-on hypertension cover, that their recommendation might no longer have been 
suitable for her and have given her a chance to explore other options. I remain satisfied that 
this error is likely to have caused Mrs L material distress and inconvenience, for which fair 
compensation should be paid.
However, it also remains the case that, ultimately, Usay wasnt the policy underwriter and 
that it wasnt responsible for the underwriting of and set-up of the policy. This was down to A. 
And I cant fairly or reasonably hold Usay responsible for any errors A may have made. Nor 
do I think I could reasonably direct Usay to source and pay for Mrs L to obtain hypertension 
cover.
I do sympathise with Mrs Ls position, as I appreciate she no longer has private medical 
insurance for hypertension. But overall, it still seems Mrs L hasnt suffered an actual financial 
loss because of Usays error, as both policies were cheaper than her policy with S. And 
neither has Mrs L incurred any private medical insurance costs for hypertension treatment. 
So I still find that on the facts of this complaint, the fair way for Usay to put right its mistake is 
to pay Mrs L £300 for the trouble and upset its error caused her. I was pleased to note that 
Usay accepted my provisional finding on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Usay Business Limited to pay Mrs L £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman