DRN-2257221
The complaint
Mr B complains about the interest rate applied to his credit card by NewDay Ltd (trading as 
Marbles).
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with Marbles in May 2018. He says when he opened the 
account, he was given 5 months at 0% interest and the interest rate following that was 
advertised as being 24%.
In August 2019 Marbles wrote to Mr B to let him know they were increasing his interest rate 
and giving him the option to opt out of the change by closing his account. Mr B raised a 
complaint with Marbles as he didnt believe the reasons given for increasing the interest rate 
applied to him. He also complained that the interest rate on the account had been incorrect 
since it was opened.
Marbles contacted Mr B to let him know that the decision to increase his interest rate had 
been reversed and later let him know that the letter had been sent to him in error. As an 
apology, it applied a £25 payment to his credit card account. Marbles also explained that the 
24% interest rate was a representative interest rate and that he had actually been given a 
rate of 34.9% APR. This is shown on Mr Bs monthly statement as 30.35% simple interest. 
In March 2020 Marbles wrote to Mr B again to say that it intended to increase his interest 
rate. Mr B raised a further complaint and Marbles reversed the decision to increase his 
interest rate again. Marbles acknowledged that the information they provided was confusing 
and paid Mr B a further £10 compensation, which was applied to his credit card account.
Marbles has now identified an issue with its system that meant both interest rate increases 
were accidentally cancelled when they should have been applied to his account  Marbles 
says it believes Mr Bs account did meet the criteria for the interest rate to be increased. 
However due to the issue with its system, it has agreed that it wont apply these increases 
and Mr Bs account wont be included in any interest rate increases while the complaint is 
with this service. It does however say that this wouldnt exclude Mr Bs account from any 
future interest rate increases.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that Marbles 
had applied the correct interest rate to the account based on the paperwork she has and that 
it was entitled to increase the interest rate provided it gave notice, which she could see it had 
done. And she thought the £35 paid to Mr B by Marbles was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the confusion Marbles had caused him. 
Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
the interest rate
Mr B says hes been charged the wrong interest rate since the account was opened. But Ive 
seen the credit agreement Mr B was given when the account was opened, and it states that 
the APR for the Agreement is 34.9% APR (variable) and that it can change this by giving 
notice. It goes on to say that standard rate (variable) per annum for purchases is 30.350% 
annual simple rate.
Mr B says he thinks this should have been 24% but it seems that was a representative rate 
that Marbles advertised. There are rules about what rates Marbles can advertise but these 
are just representative rates  they arent the rate that will definitely be given to each 
customer as that was based on the assessment they carried out when Mr B applied for the 
card.
In this case, the credit agreement is clear about the interest rate and I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr B was given an interest rate of 24% when he applied for the card. So 
based on that, I havent seen any evidence that Marbles has applied too much interest to 
Mr Bs account.
changing Mr Bs interest rate
Having considered the credit agreement, I can see Marbles are able to amend the interest 
rate in certain circumstances provided they gave Mr B notice. Marbles has given Mr B the 
benefit of not increasing his interest rate to date so there isnt anything for me to comment 
on in respect of this as Mr Bs interest rate is the same as it has been throughout the credit 
agreement. However this wouldnt prevent Marbles increasing Mr Bs interest rate in the 
future, as long as this was done in line with the terms of the agreement.
There is no doubt that Marbles has caused Mr B some confusion in sending him 
contradictory letters, which it has already acknowledged. However it has explained that Mr B 
should have had his interest rate increased in line with the letters sent to him, but that hasnt 
happened due to a problem with its system. Because of that, Mr B has had the benefit of not 
having his interest rate increased and has also been paid £35 compensation in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Taking everything into account, I think 
thats a fair resolution to this complaint, so I wont be asking Marbles to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman