DRN-4272566
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr H acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with BMF. The 
car cost around £14,000 and Mr H paid a deposit of £3,300. The agreement was to be paid 
back over 45 months with repayments of around £300. 
Mr H said the supplying dealer didnt allow him to have a full comprehensive test drive 
before he acquired the car. After taking possession he said he noticed there were a few 
issues with it including steering wheel vibration under braking. He says he took it back to the 
supplying dealer and had to pay £60 towards the cost of replacing the brakes. 
Mr H said he was involved in a car accident which forced him off the road into a wall and that 
this was down to an inner tyre blowout. He says this wrote off the car. Mr H says he took 
some advice, and he thinks BMF should be liable. He says the supplying dealer should have 
checked the tyres when it went in for repair. Hes unhappy hes left owing money after the 
insurance claim didnt cover the whole outstanding balance on his hire purchase agreement. 
To resolve the complaint Mr H requested payment of what he says is owed and 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
BMF responded to Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had no evidence the car 
wasnt roadworthy at the point of supply or that the MOT completed before it was supplied 
wasnt valid. It said a tyre can blow for a number of reasons and that it couldnt assist him 
further. 
Mr H asked the Financial Ombudsman to investigate his complaint. One of our investigators 
looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was insufficient evidence 
the tyres werent roadworthy or that the brakes were faulty as opposed to having needed 
replacing due to wear and tear. So he didnt think there was enough evidence the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. But he said if Mr H had any evidence that showed faults with the tyres 
or brakes Mr H should supply it. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said the brakes were changed at his cost and that the dealer didnt 
mention the tyres needed changing. He said he only had the car for 6 weeks and the number 
of miles he did in that time would not have caused the issues. He says he reported the 
issues under a free warranty that was supplied, and he says the MOT should not have 
passed. He also said he took the car in for a recall in relation to a diesel particulate filter and 
that he was told there were issues that should have been highlighted. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me for decision. Mr H 
wanted to highlight he thought the car wasnt sold in the excellent condition it was advertised 
as.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr H and BMF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr H acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
Im very sorry to hear Mr H was in an accident that wrote off the car. Hes asked us to direct 
BMF to reimburse him money he says hes lost out on, along with compensation. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr H entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. BMF is 
the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for dealing with a 
complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.
The car was used, so Id have different expectations of it than if it was new. But Mr H is 
indicating the car wasnt sold in excellent condition as was advertised. And hes also 
suggested the accident was as a result of defective tyres that either should not have been on 
the car when it was supplied or should have been highlighted as defective when work was 
done to replace brakes. 
The problem I have, like our investigator pointed out, is that I simply dont have sufficient 
evidence the tyres werent roadworthy when the car was supplied. And Ive not seen enough 
evidence relating to the replacement of the brakes either. While I appreciate Mr H didnt 
have the car very long until brakes were replaced and he had an accident, I dont have the 
grounds to say that this was as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality. 
Mr H supplied a photo of the blown tyre when referring his complaint to our service. But I 
cant reach conclusions based solely on a photo of a blown tyre that Mr H supplied. Our 
investigator asked if Mr H had any supporting evidence hed like to submit in relation to the 
brakes and the tyres, but hes not supplied anything further. So, as I said above, Ive not 
seen enough to say the issues Mr H experienced were down to the car not being of 
satisfactory quality. Moreover, while I understand Mr H is unhappy the supplying dealer 
didnt highlight issues with the tyres when it replaced the brakes, I wouldnt generally be able 
to hold BMF responsible for the actions of the supplying dealer after Mr H entered into the 
agreement if BMF had no involvement.
Therefore, while Im sympathetic to the situation, theres not enough evidence to 
demonstrate the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that the accident was as a result of it 
being sold in an unsafe or unroadworthy condition. So Im not going to direct BMF to take 
any action. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman