DRN-3348029
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as V, complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined its 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) application. 
The complaint has been brought to the service by one of Vs directors, Mr P.
What happened
Mr P applied to Santander on Vs behalf for a BBL of £30,000 based on a declared turnover 
of £120,000 on 5 May 2020. The following day, Vs other director identified the turnover 
amount declared on the BBL application was incorrect, so Mr P called Santander to say Vs 
turnover on the application was incorrect. Mr P said the turnover should have been £211,000 
so the requested loan should be increased to the maximum £50,000 allowed under the 
Scheme. The bank said it would pass this information to the BBL team.
The loan agreement for the £30,000 originally requested was sent to Mr P on 7 May, which 
he signed and returned shortly after. The BBL was then drawn down and the funds were 
credited to Vs account on 11 May.  
A couple of days later, Mr P called Santander several times to query why V hadnt received a 
£50,000 BBL. Santander said it couldnt increase the loan as V had already received it. Mr P 
didnt think this was fair, so he made a complaint. 
Santander upheld the complaint in part. The bank said it hadnt returned Mr Ps calls as 
expected and he should have been told to cancel Vs application and submit a new one - as 
the bank couldnt amend the original application. Santander apologised and paid £150 
compensation. But the bank said that as V had already accepted the £30,000 BBL, it 
couldnt make any changes to Vs declared turnover. Santander also said V wasnt able to 
borrow the additional £20,000 under either the BBL Scheme or the BBL Top-Up Scheme, as 
it had already had the maximum loan of 25% turnover it had originally declared. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He said the banks actions had prevented V from applying for 
the additional amount. So he asked this service to look into Vs complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said it was reasonable 
for Santander to decline Vs BBL Top-Up application as it had already had the maximum 
25% loan allowed under the Scheme. However, he thought the bank should have told Mr P 
initially to cancel the application and reapply with the higher turnover  so he thought the 
bank should pay a further £100 compensation. 
Santander didnt say whether or not it agreed with the investigators view, but Mr P didnt 
agree. He believed V had been prevented from having the loan amount it was entitled to. So 
he asked for an ombudsman to review Vs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why. 
Santander has accepted that it should have made it clearer to Mr P that it couldnt amend 
Vs application and that he would need to cancel it and submit another one. And I think that 
by not doing so, V has been caused inconvenience as Mr P repeatedly called the bank to 
change the turnover on the application and increase Vs BBL amount. 
However, under the BBL Scheme, businesses were required to fill in a short application form 
and self-declare that they were eligible for the Scheme. Under the rules of the Scheme, an 
applicant could borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover from a minimum of £2,000 to a 
maximum of £50,000.
The original application form Mr P submitted for V said its annual turnover was £120,000. Mr 
P also agreed to a declaration which confirmed that the information was complete and 
accurate. I acknowledge Mr P has told us the reasons the information was incorrect. But the 
application he signed on Vs behalf was the basis for Vs loan agreement, and any borrowing 
provided under the BBL Scheme was based on the declarations signed by the borrower  so 
it was important this was accurate. 
Mr P said he contacted Santander the following day and the bank agreed to increase the 
loan as the turnover figure for V was wrong. Ive listened to the calls between Mr P and 
Santander; however I didnt hear the call handler say the change would be made - only that 
he would send a message to the processing team to request the change. 
Ive also looked at the timeframe for when Vs application was submitted and the initial call 
made by Mr P. Based on the evidence available, I think its plausible that the agreed email 
was still being processed through the banks system - and therefore hadnt been added to 
Vs case before the offer letter was sent. 
I acknowledge Mr P said he didnt expect the application to have been processed so fast, but 
the expectation of the Scheme was that finance was available quickly to those who needed 
it. But when Mr P received Vs loan agreement, he had the opportunity to reject the £30,000 
and query why the agreement wasnt for £50,000 - but he didnt do so. Mr P returned the 
signed agreement to accept the terms within a couple of days which confirmed he was 
accepting the £30,000 on Vs behalf.
The agreement says, By signing this Agreement you declare and acknowledge that all the 
information given or to be given by you in applying to enter into this Agreement is correct 
and will be relied on by the Bank. I think Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware by this 
point that the information contained within the application needed to be correct as this was 
the basis of Vs loan agreement - and that he may need to check the increased turnover 
figure hed given for V the previous day had been updated on Vs application before he 
signed the agreement. 
The Scheme rules also said that a borrower could only have one BBL and did not allow for 
the information provided in the application or the loan amount to be amended after the loan 
was drawn down. So Santander wasnt able to make any changes or increase the loan 
amount once V had drawn down the £30,000 loan. 
Overall, I think Santander caused inconvenience to V because Santander didnt give Mr P 
the correct information about the application  so he spent time and effort trying to change it. 
So I think the bank should pay V an additional £100 compensation on top of the £150 its 
already paid. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Santander UK Plc to pay V a 
further £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman