DRN-2552286
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 17 July 2020, Mr C was supplied with a brand-new car through a hire purchase 
agreement with RCI. He paid a £900 deposit and the agreement was for £8,448 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly repayments of £161.04 and a final payment of £2,992.27. 
Mr C was unhappy with the quality of the car. He said that:
dashboard warning lights were coming on;
there was a lack of power on inclines;
the ABS light came on, and the brake pedal pulsated when pressed;
there was a problem with the ECU when the engine was idling;
the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) light was on, which deactivated the ESP and 
made the car harder to control; and
the alarm was coming on, and the car travelled to the left, on corners and 
roundabouts.
Mr C took the car back to the supplying dealership on 20 July 2020 and was provided with a 
courtesy vehicle while they inspected the car. While in his possession the courtesy vehicle 
was damaged, and Mr C had to pay the £1,000 insurance excess (which was payable in the 
event of any accidental damage).
Mr C collected the car from the dealership a few days later but was unhappy because it was 
still faulty. He complained to RCI, asking to reject the car. But RCI didnt agree, so he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained we were only able to consider complaints relating to the hire 
purchase agreement Mr C had with RCI, and whether the car was of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. He also explained that we werent able to consider the complaints Mr C had 
about the dealership, or about the incident with the hire vehicle.
The investigator said that, because the car was brand-new when supplied, it was reasonable 
to expect this to be free from any faults or defects. He said the dealership had conducted a 
full diagnostic check on the car and they were unable to replicate any of the faults Mr C had 
complained about; and that the car wasnt fitted with an alarm.
However, the investigator said dealership say that, when the car was driven without the door 
being fully closed, then (especially when driving on a roundabout) dashboard warning lights 
would come on and there was a beeping sound to indicate the door was open. He also said 
the dealership said there was no lack of power under any road conditions - the car drove as 
it should with a three cylinder 0.9L engine.
Because Mr C had also complained of an anti-skid warning light coming on after the 
dealership had investigated the initial faults hed complained about, the dealership offered to 
run another full diagnostic check to see if they could replicate this fault. The investigator 
thought this was a reasonable offer, but Mr C declined to take the car back to the dealership 
as he wasnt happy with how hed been treated there.
The investigator said that, when considering all of the facts, he didnt think the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. And any issues with the car were likely 
to have been related to how it was driven i.e. with the door not fully closed. So he didnt think 
RCI needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, RCI are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, as the car was brand new, a reasonable person would 
expect the car to be fault free. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when 
Mr C took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask RCI to put this right.
Ive seen that the dealership inspected the car on 21 July 2020. And they couldnt replicate 
any of the faults Mr C had complained about. But the dealership did say that, if the car door 
wasnt fully closed when driven, then this may explain the dashboard warning lights and 
beeping noise Mr C had heard. 
They also said they were unable to find any fault with the power delivery under any road 
conditions, but did comment that the car was 1L  Non turbo  3 cyl. I think they were 
trying to say that, because of the engine fitted in the car, Mr C was getting the power the car 
was designed to provide. Although it was probably less than he was expecting. But this 
doesnt mean there was a fault with the car.
As Mr C remained unhappy, the dealership offered to reinspect the car for any faults. But Mr 
C didnt take them up on the offer. And, as I understand it, he hasnt been using the car 
since mid-2020.I appreciate the car isnt what Mr C was necessarily expecting. But I cant agree that RCI 
shouldve let him reject the car unless it was faulty when it was supplied to him, and those 
faults made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. I havent seen anything to show me that the 
car was faulty when supplied, and Mr C hasnt provided any reports from an independent 
garage that contradicts the diagnostic check and report carried out by the dealership.
Because of this, Im satisfied that the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr C, so he doesnt have the right to reject it. And I wont be asking RCI to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about RCI Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman