DRN-4003269
The complaint
Mr R complains that Think Money Limited blocked his account and stopped him accessing 
money held in the account. Hes also unhappy about the service Think Money provided. 
What happened
Mr R had a current account with Think Money. In May 2022, a credit of £25,000 was paid 
into Mr Rs account. Following this, Think Money decided to review how Mr R was operating 
his account. As part of its review Think Money asked Mr R to provide them with information 
about the money which had been paid into his account. Whilst it completed its review Think 
Money blocked Mr Rs account. This meant Mr R couldnt access the £25,000, however he 
was able to access DWP benefits and his direct debits continued to be paid.
Mr R told Think Money that the money paid into his account had meant to be paid into 
another account he held  a business account. And that hed accidentally provided the 
wrong account details to the person who sent the money to him, who I will refer to as Ms S. 
Mr R explained that Ms S was a customer of his business. He said that he had supplied an 
order of windows to Ms S which were to be exported overseas. He provided Think Money 
with a copy of a headed invoice made out to Ms S and photographs of the windows, which 
were wrapped and ready for shipment, to demonstrate he was entitled to the money that had 
been paid into his account. And that the £25,000 was payment hed received for a legitimate 
business transaction. Mr R said he intended to transfer the money to his business account.
Think Money reviewed all the information Mr R provided. During its review, Mr R contacted 
Think Money to find out how long its review would take to complete. He said he spent hours 
on the phone trying to find out what was happening and how he could access his money. 
And he also sent emails asking for updates. But Think Money wouldnt tell him much and he 
was never able to speak to the department conducting the review. He said doing this was 
exhausting and affected his sleep.  
Think Money completed its review on 22 June 2022 and removed the block on Mr Rs 
account on 1 July 2022. Following, this Think Money closed Mr Rs account on 4 July 2022.
Mr R complained to Think Money about blocking his access to his funds and account. He 
also said he was unhappy about how it had handled things  in particular that he had spent 
hours on the phone. In response, Think Money said it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
had blocked and reviewed Mr Rs account. And that it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the Mr Rs account in doing so. However, it accepted that it should have 
provided better service to Mr R when he called them. It agreed that Mr R had to wait too long 
on the phone each time he called. So, it offered Mr R £70 compensation for the trouble and 
upset this had caused him. It also refunded Mr Rs £10 account fee. Mr R said this didnt go 
far enough. He said he was left out of pocket because he couldnt access his money and the 
whole situation was very stressful. So, he wants more compensation.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. After reviewing all the information, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. She thought the bank had acted fairly in not releasing the money, blocking, and 
then closing his account. She also said that Think Money had done enough to put things 
right regarding the service it had provided Mr R.  Mr R disagreed. He wants to know why 
Think Money blocked his account and more compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Think 
Money has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr R, but Id like to reassure him that I 
have considered everything.
Ill deal first with Think Moneys decision to block and review Mr Rs account. Think Money 
have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an account is 
opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
To comply with their obligations, Think Money will monitor accounts for activity which 
appears unusual or out of place. And may ask its customers to provide information about 
certain transactions. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account 
to conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. 
Ive looked at the information that has been provided by the parties, Mr Rs account was 
flagged for review and was restricted by Think Money due to a large payment coming into 
the account, which from looking at Mr Rs account statements, was out of character to the 
usual activity on the account. As part of their review, Think Money asked Mr R for detailed 
information about the payment that came into his account and where it came from  which 
theyre entitled to do under their obligations and the terms of the account. 
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied that Think Moneys requests were reasonable in 
the circumstances. Ultimately it is Think Money who decide what information they do or do 
not require as part of a review and they have a duty to protect their customers money and 
understand where it came from. Because of that, I cant fairly conclude Think Money acted 
inappropriately when it blocked Mr Rs account and asked him to provide information. So, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr R compensation as Im not satisfied Think 
Money treated Mr R unfairly when it blocked his account and asked him for information.
I understand that Mr R wants Think Money to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account.  Hes also unhappy that Think Money gave him no warnings about what it was 
doing. But Think Money doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr R the reasons behind the account block, as 
much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr R this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so or for me to disclose 
the reasons. 
Mr R says Think Money took too long to complete its review of the account. He says Think 
Money should have done things more quickly. And hes pointed out that he provided the information Think Money wanted pretty quickly. I do accept that it took just over a month for 
Think Money to release the funds held in the account and remove the account block. But I 
dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of 
any particular or specific timeframe. Because Think Money was entitled  as a matter of 
principle  to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Ive also looked at the timeline and can see that Think Money didnt cause any unnecessary 
delays and were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. I appreciate that 
Think Moneys actions caused Mr R real inconvenience and upset. It wouldnt, however, be 
appropriate to make an award for compensation for that since I dont believe that Think 
Money acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did.
Ive gone on to consider whether Think Money acted fairly when it closed Mr Rs account. 
Mr R has pointed out that the closure of his account caused him a lot of problems and 
stress. But its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of his account. The terms and conditions outline that 
the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Think Money closed 
Mr Rs account with seven days notice. For Think Money to act fairly here they needed to 
meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these 
terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank did. And that it was entitled to close the 
account as its already done. 
Finally, Think Money has accepted it should have provided Mr R with better service and 
offered him £70 compensation for any trouble and upset he was caused when he made 
phone calls and was kept waiting to speak to staff. It has also offered to refund Mr Rs 
account fee. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable way to resolve to resolve this aspect 
of Mr Rs complaint. So, I wont be directing Think Money to do anything more.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr R a great deal of inconvenience when he wasnt able to 
use his account. So understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a 
worrying and frustrating time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. 
But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that 
Think Money have done enough to put things right and I wont be asking them to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Think Money Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman