DRN-3718241
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund her for transactions she says she didnt 
make or authorise. 
What happened
Miss K has an account with Revolut.
Between 12 and 13 July 2022, a series of transactions were made to two individuals which I 
will refer to as O and P. The transactions were made using Revoluts online Banking app 
using Miss Ks mobile phone. 
Miss K has explained that her mobile phone and banking app are protected with a PIN. The 
PIN for her mobile phone and banking app is the same. Shes also said she has never 
disclosed the PIN to anyone else and is still in possession of her mobile phone.
Miss K says during the time the disputed transactions were made she was out and about 
and went to a party with a friend, where she says they ended up being befriended by two 
men. She says that the men wined and dined her and her friend. And she eventually ended 
up at a house where she was assaulted by a woman and had her car stolen.
 
Miss K has explained that she doesnt know O or P. And she cant explain how someone 
was able to get hold of her mobile phone to make the transactions. Shes also said that she 
believes her drinks were spiked whilst she was out and that shes reported everything that 
happened to the police. Miss K suspects that the disputed transactions were made by the 
people shed met whilst out with her friend. But she cant explain how they managed to get 
hold of her phone and find out the details of her PIN. And then carry out the transactions on 
her account.
An undisputed transaction was made at 9.08pm on 12 July 2022, when Miss K transferred 
just over £8 to her savings pot. Three disputed payments were then made later that evening 
to O between 11.04pm and 11.11pm, each for £2,000. Thirteen further transactions were 
then carried out on 13 July 2022 just after midnight until just before 1.00am, for between £50 
and £1,000. All the transactions were made using Miss Ks mobile phone.
Following these transactions on 13 July 2022, at 2.06am a disputed transfer of £500 was 
made to P. Following this Miss K made in excess of twenty undisputed transactions on her 
account including transferring money into her savings pot using her mobile phone, ATM 
withdrawals, and several card payments at various retailers. These were made between 
3.12am and 10.00am. Then at 10.01am, and 10.16am two disputed transfers were made to 
P for just over £1,000 in total, again using Miss Ks mobile phone. Following this Miss K 
made numerous undisputed transactions throughout the rest of the day. And the following 
day up until 14 July 2022 at just after 2.30pm. 
Miss K says she reported the fraud to Revolut via its in app chat facility on 14 July 2022 at 
3.14pm when she returned home and checked her account. She explained to Revolut that 
she didnt know O or P and hadnt made the transactions to them. 
Revolut investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It concluded that 
Miss K had made the transactions herself. In summary it said there was no obvious point at 
which Miss Ks PIN could have been compromised. And that all of the transactions had been 
made using Miss Ks registered mobile phone via online banking. 
Revolut say that the mobile banking was accessed through a security PIN code being 
entered and new payees being set up. Revolut says there was no other way for anyone 
other than Miss K to have authorised the activity she is disputing. Because of this Revolut 
said Miss K is liable for the transfers that were made.
Miss K disagreed with Revoluts decision. So, she brought her complaint to this service 
where one of our investigators looked into the matter.
 
Based on the evidence, the investigator thought Miss K had authorised the transactions. In 
summary he said:
There was no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party was able to gain 
access to Miss Ks mobile phone and become aware of her PIN needed to unlock her 
mobile phone and access her online banking app.
There were numerous undisputed transactions in between the disputed transactions.
The disputed transactions reduced Miss Ks balance considerably, but she didnt 
report the matter until after the last disputed transaction had been made. 
Miss K disagreed.  She said she has been the victim of fraud.  And that Revolut should have 
noticed the disputed transactions and stopped them leaving her account. She also said she 
didnt tell Revolut about her suspicions about how the disputed transactions had taken place 
because she was reporting things through an in app chat and felt like she was talking to a 
robot.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account, relevant law 
and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here, Ive reached 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant regulations, in place at the time, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(the PSRs 2017). Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that 
Miss K authorised the payments, Revolut is entitled to hold her liable. If a payment 
transaction wasnt authorised, the payment service provider must refund the unauthorised 
payment transaction to the payer, and where applicable restore the account to the state it 
would have been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place. If a payment 
service user (customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  - the payment 
service provider (in this case Revolut) has to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated and consented to. Revolut say the evidence suggests the disputed transfers were made by Miss K. Miss K 
says she didnt carry out ,consent or authorise the transfers. And is seeking a refund of the 
transfers made from her account.  So, in this case I need to think about whether the 
evidence I have suggests the disputed activity was more likely than not carried out by Miss K 
or carried out with her knowledge and consent.
Revolut have provided technical evidence to show what mobile device Miss K had registered 
in July 2022. The same mobile device was used before, during and after the disputed 
transfers. It was also used by Miss K to report the disputed transactions on 14 July 2022. 
Revolut has also provided records to show the dates and times Miss K logged into her 
account and how access was gained. And its provided statements of all the transactions on 
Miss Ks account.
Ive looked at the technical evidence provided by Revolut. I can see that all the disputed 
transfers were made through the mobile banking app and each time it was accessed through 
Miss Ks registered mobile device. The records show that each time mobile banking was 
accessed for a transfer to be made, Miss Ks correct security details (her banking PIN) was 
entered to gain access to the online banking.  So, Im satisfied that Miss Ks mobile device 
was used when the disputed transfers were made, and that the transfers were 
authenticated as Miss Ks correct security details were entered, to access the online 
banking and make the transfers.
This means I now need to determine whether I think its more likely than not that Miss K or 
someone with her knowledge and consent carried out the disputed activity, or whether I think 
it was carried out without her knowledge and consent.
Having looked at all the evidence, on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that Miss K 
more likely than not, did consent to the transactions she is disputing. I say this because:
The disputed transfers were all conducted through mobile banking on Miss Ks 
registered mobile device
Miss K says her mobile phone remained in her possession throughout the period in 
question. And says she hasnt shared her mobile banking PIN with anyone. So, 
theres no plausible explanation for how someone was able to become aware of her 
PIN
The disputed transactions took place over two days during the early hours, late at 
night or early morning.This would mean a third party would have to take and replace 
Miss Ks mobile phone without being noticed over two days at different times. They 
would also have to have obtained Miss Ks security details (Miss Ks PIN). 
I dont think that an unknown third party would risk taking Miss Ks phone, replacing 
it, taking it again, completing further transactions and then returning it. This back and 
forth wouldve created an unnecessary risk of alerting Miss K that fraudulent 
transactions were taking place. Ive also noted that at one point the unknown third 
party would have had to be in possession of Miss Ks mobile device for just under an 
hour on 13 July 2022 when thirteen disputed transactions were made between just 
after midnight to just before 1.00am  I think its unlikely Miss K wouldnt have 
noticed this given the frequency she used her mobile phone to access her account.
Miss K made a high volume of undisputed transactions from her account including 
online transfers during the period the disputed transactions were made. But she 
didnt notice the transactions and report them to Revolut.
The disputed transactions reduced Miss Ks account balance significantly, yet she 
didnt dispute the transactions until 14 July 2022 hours after the last disputed transaction had been made, and after shed made undisputed transactions. So, I 
think she wouldve noticed the transactions much sooner than shes said she did as 
her account balance was reducing significantly over the period.
I realise its possible someone couldve accessed Miss Ks mobile phone whilst she 
was out and about, however, theres no explanation for how someone couldve 
accessed the mobile banking app without Miss K telling them the PIN. I also dont 
think its plausible, based on what Miss K has told us she was doing at the time, as it 
would mean Miss K was present at the time the unknown third party had her mobile 
device and was carrying out transfers while she was unaware.
Also if an unknown third party had managed to gain access to Miss Ks mobile phone 
and banking PIN, I think its likely that they would have maximized what they could 
take out of the account on the first opportunity, rather than making numerous 
transactions over a period to time and increasing the risk they could be caught. 
So, when I weigh everything up, I dont find it likely that an unknown third party obtained 
Miss Ks mobile phone on multiple occasions and made the disputed transfers without her 
consent. Im also mindful that there were transfers that Miss K isnt disputing that happened 
in close proximity to the transfers she is disputing. Having looked at the activity on the 
account, the times the online banking was accessed (through Miss Ks registered device), 
the method of entry to gain access to mobile banking alongside the undisputed transfers, I 
think its more likely than not that the disputed activity was carried out by Miss K or carried 
out by someone with her knowledge and consent. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair 
for me to ask Revolut to refund Miss K. 
Lastly, I can see that Miss K has made a number of comments to the effect that Revolut 
should have spotted the transactions and stopped them from going through. Especially as 
the transactions reduced Miss Ks balance quickly and significantly. So, she says Revolut 
should have intervened, blocked her account, and contacted her about the transactions. But 
because Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Miss K authorised these transactions, 
I dont think any intervention on its part wouldve made a difference here. 
In summary, I know how strongly Miss K feels about her complaint, and I realise my decision 
will be a very disappointing outcome. I cant know for sure what happened here, and I have 
to be guided by the available evidence. Unfortunately, I find that the weight of the evidence 
doesnt demonstrate that these payments were unauthorised. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman