DRN-2629504
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim made on
their travel insurance policy.
All reference to IPA includes it claims handlers.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 February 2021 explaining why I was 
intending to partially uphold it - part of which is copied below:
Mr and Mrs H took out an annual silver travel insurance policy  underwritten by IPA 
which commenced at the end of January 2019.
Whilst abroad in December 2019, Mrs H was hospitalised due to a suspected stroke. IPA
was notified of this on 10 December 2019.
However, it subsequently declined to cover Mrs Hs medical costs under the policy as it said,
when taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs H had failed to disclose the fact that Mrs H had
asthma and had received treatment for this within the five years prior to the policy starting.
Had they disclosed this medical condition, IPA says this policy wouldnt have been sold to Mr
and Mrs M. IPA did agree to pay back the premium Mr and Mrs H paid for the policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold their
complaint; he didnt think IPA needed to do anything more. Mr and Mrs H disagree so their
complaint has now been passed to me consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive taken into account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers
remedies where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented the
situation about things like their pre-existing medical conditions when taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance, theyll be asked questions about themselves and the
risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it
wishes to cover that risk and how much it will charge for doing so.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances where an insurer may be able to
avoid the insurance contact  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. In
the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided
with the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding whether Mr and Mrs H took reasonable care is to be done in the light
of all the relevant circumstances. That can involve a number of things including whether the
questions they were asked at the time of taking out the policy were sufficiently clear.
The policy was taken out online. Ive been provided with the sales journey including the
questions Mr H wouldve been asked at the time which included:
within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any
medical condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness or
injury) that has required prescribed medication or treatment including surgery, tests
or investigations?
I refer to this as the medical question.
Mr H says he cant recall having been asked the medical question as hes usually very
careful to give the correct information. The sale took place almost two years ago, so its not
surprising that he might not recall the sales process in its entirety. But given the screenshot
thats been provided to me by IPA, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that this was one
of the questions asked at the time and that it was a clear question. And on the balance of
probabilities, Im also satisfied that he answered no to the medical question.
Ive also thought about whether Mr H took reasonable care when answering the medical
question on his and Mrs Hs behalf  or whether he made a qualifying misrepresentation.
Mrs Hs GP notes reflect that in mid-2018 shed been to her GP about an acute
exacerbation of asthma and had been prescribed medication. This happened around six
months before Mr and Mrs H took out the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr H answered the
medical question incorrectly, and that, in this case, by doing so he made a qualifying
misrepresentation as he answered the medical question carelessly.
Based on the evidence provided by IPA, I think if Mr H had answered yes to the medical
question, its likely that he wouldve been prevented from taking out the silver policy for him
and Mrs H. Particularly as the terms of the silver policy reflect that the policy doesnt cover
pre-existing medical conditions.
Instead, IPA says he wouldve been automatically presented with additional questions (the
follow up questions) which I accept. IPA has provided us with a screenshot showing the
follow up questions Mr H wouldve been asked. Had they been answered correctly, IPA says
he wouldve been presented with a quote for a select policy at either silver, gold or platinum
levels of cover with no specific medical screening. And had Mrs Hs condition been declared,
IPA says a medical score of 1.1 wouldve been applied.
Based on the retro-screening which IPA has now carried out, it says Mr and Mrs H shouldve
paid £70.29 for the select silver travel insurance policy rather than £57.61. And so, it says,
they only paid 81.96% of the correct premium.
When undertaking a retro-screening, Im satisfied IPA has answered the follow-up questions
fairly. And given what I know about the factors taken into account when pricing travel
insurance policies, Im satisfied that its likely there wouldve been an uplift in the cost of the
policy had the medical question and follow up questions been answered correctly.
In the absence of any further evidence to the contrary, Im minded to accept what IPA says. I
dont think an increase of around £13 (representing a 22% uplift in price) soundsunreasonable in the circumstances of this particular case.
Presented with the option of paying a higher premium, I see no reason to find that Mr and
Mrs H wouldnt have done so. And I intend to find Mr and Mrs H only paid 81.96% of the
correct premium. That being the case, in all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think
IPA has acted fairly or reasonably by outright declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim as a result of
making a qualifying misrepresentation when answering the medical question.
To put things right, I proposed that IPA reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
of the policy. And having done so, if the claim is accepted, I said IPA should pay Mr and 
Mrs H 81.96% of the claim they made for the costs claimed (less the amount they shouldve 
paid for the policy).
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. 
IPA accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H said theyd never received a refund of 
the policy premium from IPA. So, they said if the claim is accepted by IPA, £70.29 shouldnt 
be deducted from any proportionate settlement they receive. They say only £12.68 should 
be deducted (that is the difference between the premium they paid and the premium they 
shouldve paid).
Our investigator asked IPA whether it did refund Mr and Mrs H the premium theyd paid for 
the policy and it confirmed that it hadnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party made any comments - or provided any further evidence - in response to my 
proposed finding that IPA didnt act fairly or reasonably by outright declining Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim as a result of making a qualifying misrepresentation when answering the medical 
question. So, Im satisfied that theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion on 
that particular issue.
And for the reasons explained in my provisional decision  which Ive set out above  I 
partially uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Putting things right
I direct IPA to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
And having done so, if the claim is accepted, IPA should:
A. pay Mr and Mrs H 81.96% of the claim they made for the costs claimed (less 
£12.68, representing the additional amount they shouldve paid for the policy); 
and
B. calculate and pay 8% per annum simple interest* on the proportionate settlement
                from the date the claim was declined to the date on which IPA makes payment.
*If IPA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from anyinterest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give them a
certificate showing this if they ask for one. That way they can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman