DRN-4063833
The complaint
Mr D has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc unreasonably refused to refund 
unauthorised transactions which occurred on his bank account following the theft of his 
wallet and phone.
What happened
Mr D had recently moved to London for his job. He said he was in a pub with some work 
colleagues and afterwards he waited for his friends outside a supermarket when his phone 
and wallet were pickpocketed from him on the street on 9 November 2022. This was late in 
the evening too.
Mr D said given his payment details were on a taxi app, the thieves used a taxi to get away 
from the area that night so that is the first disputed transaction.
The next day using Apple Pay on his phone the thieves relieved his bank account of 
£3.109.95 which was his savings for a deposit on a new flat.
As Mr D had no phone and no wallet or bank cards, he had no access to any money at all. 
So, he struggled to be able to let Nat West know his cards and phone had been stolen. The 
banking app on his laptop required him to verify a code which would be sent to his mobile 
phone in order to verify himself. It wasnt until someone lent him enough money to get to a 
branch was Mr D able to report the theft to Nat West on 12 November.
Nat West decided there was no point of compromise essentially saying Mr D was grossly 
negligent in keeping safe his security details therefore it refused to refund him the disputed 
transactions.
Mr D then brought his case to us, the investigator didnt think Nat West had done anything 
wrong. As Mr D remained dissatisfied his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2023 and I said the following: 
Having reviewed the investigation that Nat West carried out, I consider they made 
some assumptions early in the investigation that I dont believe are true. These were 
the belief Mr D had his left his phone and wallet on a table in the pub and not 
comprehending that without either his wallet or phone he had no access to any funds 
even to get him the travel costs to a bank unless someone lent him the funds. I am 
satisfied that Mr Ds account as detailed above is more than likely the correct version. 
I dont consider anything turns on the timing of the notification either given the 
particular circumstances Mr D found himself in, with no access to either a phone or 
money. So, I dont see there was an undue delay in Mr D reporting the transactions.
Mr D has told us that in his wallet was his driving licence which contained his date of 
birth. Sadly, Mr Ds passcode to his phone and his Nat West banking app was his 
date of birth which was on his driving licence. I consider thats how the thieves were 
able to both access Mr Ds phone and therefore his Apple Pay and possibly banking 
app in order to authenticate all the disputed transactions.
Mr D said he explained to Nat West that as the thieves didnt have his debit card PIN, 
although they did have the card, they wouldnt have been able to use his card without 
the PIN. However, that didnt stop them using Apple Pay to make the transactions 
instead, given the Apple Pay card have a unique device account number unique to 
each phone and the thieves had his phone.
Given Mr Ds driving licence was also in his wallet and unfortunately that contained 
his date of birth which was the passcodes for both his phone and banking app, so its 
relatively simple to see how the thieves managed to make the disputed transactions 
from Mr Ds account. There is no dispute that the transactions were authenticated 
coherently under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). That means Nat West 
was primarily under a duty to permit those transactions.
However, its system did flag up initially that the pattern of the transactions was 
unusual for Mr D. But following a verification text to Mr Ds phone obviously made by 
the thieves, that flag was effectively stood down. But Nat West would have known 
that the phone making the payments through Apple Pay was the same phone it was 
sending the verification texts to. I would have expected a more proactive confirmation 
of the payments, more so since they had been flagged by the system as being 
suspicious. And more so since one of the payments is also to a pawnbroker, which 
wasnt a usual transaction for Mr D.
Under the relevant regulations which govern this type of complaint, namely the PSRs 
it says a consumer such as Mr D here should take all reasonable steps to keep safe 
personalised security credentials relating to a payment instrument or an account 
information service. This is the primary obligation the PSRs place on consumers, 
such as Mr D here. The regulations go on to say that a bank can hold the consumer 
liable if they havent met these obligations with either intent or gross negligence. So, I 
have to go on to consider whether Mr D has been grossly negligent with his 
personalised security details.
Gross negligence is a concept that goes beyond carelessness  it needs to be a 
rather significant failing that any reasonable person would have instead seen as a 
risk. This is quite a high bar to clear. We would consider gross negligence to be a 
lack of care that goes significantly beyond what we would expect from a reasonable 
person. So, the consumers actions must be assessed against what a reasonable 
person in Mr Ds position would have done, and their actions should only amount to 
gross negligence if what they did fell far below the standard expected of a reasonable 
person.
I consider it was nave of Mr D to use his date of birth as a passcode to both his 
phone and banking app and especially both having the same passcode. More so 
since his wallet contained his driving licence with his date of birth on it. However, I 
dont consider this was so negligent so as to hit the high bar of gross negligence. 
Here was a young man, who had just come to London to start a new job where he 
was barely settled into that new job and was about to pay a deposit for his new flat. 
The thieves pickpocketed him in London late in the evening whilst he was waiting for 
his work colleagues to come of the supermarket. Mr D did report the matter to the 
police and continued to liaise with them too. And he has shown us that he had to buy 
a new phone. Whilst the thieves could access his Apple Pay, they couldnt access his 
card because they didnt have the PIN.Taking all of the above in consideration, I dont consider this meets the bar of gross 
negligence. It was nave of Mr D to choose that passcode being his date of birth and 
use the same one for both the phone and the banking app, but I consider sadly that 
happens far more frequently than not. Therefore, I dont consider this fell below the 
standard of the reasonable consumer in these circumstances. Therefore, I consider 
Nat West should refund all the disputed transactions with interest.
I have listened to the call recordings Nat West sent us which sadly didnt contain 
actual call recordings of what Mr D told them but instead contained the recordings of 
the person within Nat West initially answering Mr Ds calls and then passing them 
through to the case worker for Mr Ds claim. I dont consider the contents of these 
calls show Nat West up in a particularly good light bearing in mind the circumstances 
of Mr Ds claim. I consider therefore that given Mr Ds particular circumstances, the 
service he received from Nat West caused him some considerable upset and 
distress. Therefore, I consider it should now pay Mr D £250 compensation for this.
Mr D responded that he was very pleased with the outcome in my provisional decision. Nat 
West also agreed with the outcome in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis that neither party had anything further to add and indeed agreed the outcome 
of my provisional decision, I see no reason to change that.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
I now require National Westminster Bank Plc to do the following:
Refund the disputed transactions adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date 
those transactions were made to the date of the refund. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr D 
for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr D the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and upset it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman