DRN-3648753
The complaint
Mr M complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (Somerset) made errors 
and provided him with a poor service when he attempted to amend the details of his policy. 
Mr M says hes lost out financially because of this and he would like appropriate 
compensation to reflect this. 
Somerset is Mr Ms insurance broker. 
What happened
Mr Ms car broke down. Whilst clarifying the scope of his comprehensive cover with 
Somerset following this breakdown, it came to light that he needed to change his address 
and overnight parking details. However, during the amendment process Somerset made a 
number of errors and Mr M says this caused him to lose out. He says he was mis-informed 
about charges due and the direct debit he would pay going forward after the amendments 
were made. Mr M says the errors and the fallout from these errors meant he felt he had to 
cancel his policy. But an outstanding premium plus cancellation fee remains unpaid which 
Mr M is refusing to pay. Mr M says hes lost out financially and he says he would like fair 
compensation to reflect this. He also says he is not liable for the outstanding monies owed, 
given everything hes been put through.  
Somerset has acknowledged that it made a number of errors when it was making changes to 
Mr Ms policy. So, when Mr M cancelled his policy, Somerset waived its broker fee, 
amendment fee and finance fee as compensation to reflect the inconvenience it had caused 
Mr M. The balance that remains is £122.95 and this amount is made up of a cancellation fee 
and the amount due to the underwriter of the policy for the time spent on cover from the time 
Mr M cancelled his direct debit to the time the policy actually cancelled. 
But Mr M says he shouldnt have to pay anything further, and he says waiving the fees 
doesnt reflect the compensation he deserves for the mental distress hes suffered nor does 
it reflect the time hes spent trying to sort out Somersets errors. So, he brought his complaint 
to our service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said that Somerset had done 
enough and didnt need to do anymore.
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of the issue here is that Mr M was led to believe via a telephone call that his 
monthly direct debit amount would change to a lower amount. Mr M says Somerset 
shouldve been obliged to honour what he was told in that call. He also says this was then 
confirmed in an email to him. Mr M says the information in both the telephone call and the 
email are legally binding, and that is all he was ever due to pay. He says any errors made by 
Somerset should be paid for by Somerset and any outstanding premiums or fees are not his 
responsibility.
So, lets go back to the beginning. Mr M called Somerset to utilise the breakdown repair 
policy which was part of his comprehensive insurance policy. It was during this breakdown 
claim that Mr M realised that he needed to amend his address and overnight parking 
arrangement. He tried to do this online, but he was directed to ring Somerset directly to 
make the changes. 
It was during this amendment call that errors were made. There was confusion and it was 
implied that the monthly direct debit going forward would be £28.53. However, this wasnt 
correct. The call handler told Mr M that after making changes there would be an admin 
charge of £28.93. Mr M asked, and thats what I pay each month? The call handler said 
yeah and then went on to talk about excess and the cover Mr M had under his 
comprehensive policy. But this amount was actually the differential amount between a return 
of premium that Mr M was due of £21.07, that was being offset against the £50 fee that Mr M 
was being charged for making the amendments and not the new monthly direct debit. The 
actual monthly direct debit didnt change and remained at approximately £100.
Listening to this call recording was very frustrating. The call handler picked things up 
incorrectly and didnt have the knowledge required to talk Mr M through the changes he 
wanted to make. It was like listening to two different conversations. Its clear Mr M thought 
his direct debit was changing to £28.93. The call handler was completely oblivious to this, 
and she thought she was processing a charge. She misunderstood the home care query, 
and she even told Mr M that the underwriter wouldnt actually quote him. This call was very 
poor from start to finish and is ultimately the reason we are where we are today. 
When Mr M noticed his direct debit hadnt changed, he called Somerset. The agent at 
Somerset listened to a recording of the call and realised the error that had been made. She 
apologised to Mr M, and explained to him what his options were in order for him to remain on 
cover. 
However, Mr M he said he wasnt going to pay anything further to remain on cover. He said 
that the monthly direct debit quote of £28.53 that he was given by the agent who made the 
error was now legally binding. He said there is recorded evidence of a Somerset employee 
giving false information. He said this is supported by the letter he received and any attempt 
to now change this monthly direct debit amount was a breach of contract. Mr M said that 
Somerset had to hold up its end of the bargain and honour the quote. Mr M said he wanted 
his direct debit changed to £28.53 as agreed, and he wanted all charges and interest fees 
waived. Mr M said it wasnt his fault that the agent he spoke to wasnt trained properly. 
I agree that this was a substantial error for Somerset to make. But thats what it was, an 
error. As I said above, listening to this call was like listening to two different conversations. 
Mr M thought his monthly direct debit was changing, but the call agent was caught up with 
processing an administration charge. And even when Mr M queried why he was being 
charged an additional premium when his direct debit had already gone out, the call handler 
still didnt realise what was happening. In short the call handler was very confused and 
instead of clarifying with Mr M what he was talking about, she continually went on hold, I 
presume to seek advice, without having a clear picture of what she needed advice about. 
Once Somerset listened to the call it apologised and set out to Mr M what his options were to 
get back on track with cover. I know these options arent what Mr M wants. He wanted to pay 
£28.93 a month, not the correct amount. But I wont be concluding that Somerset shouldve 
given Mr M cover for £28.93 a month. Its very clear there was much confusion in this call, and the call handler was clearly very inexperienced. But clearly this policy wasnt ever going 
to be £28.93 per month, and this amount was never quoted on any correspondence Ive 
seen on file. So, Somerset has done exactly what we would expect it to do. Acknowledge 
that it made an error, apologise to Mr M, offer him fair compensation and put him back in the 
position he wouldve been in if the amendments to the policy had been carried out correctly. 
I can see why Mr M was frustrated. And I know its frustrating when errors happen. But thats 
human nature. Mr M was never in a worse off position than where he started out from 
because of this error. This is not a situation where Mr M should benefit from Somersets 
error. 
Mr M was put back in the position he wouldve been in had the amendment happened 
correctly. I understand why he wanted to cancel the policy, but it was his decision to cancel 
so the cancellation fee is due, and he was on cover during the time the complaint was 
ongoing, so he should pay for this cover. I can see that Somerset apologised to Mr M and I 
believe it has provided a fair and reasonable compensation for its error by waiving some of 
its fees. I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But Im satisfied Somerset 
acted fairly and reasonably when rectifying a genuine but avoidable error, and I wont be 
asking Somerset to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman