DRN-3281807
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse funds he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
Mr M had been recommended an investment broker Kruger Exchange by his boss.  He 
looked it up on a social media platform and saw it advertising. He checked out its website 
which he thought fine and genuine and so decided to leave his details. He was later 
contacted with an investment opportunity. 
Mr M and a friend decided to invest together. Some funds were transferred from an account 
held with another provided (which have since been refunded) and others from Mr Ms 
account with HSBC. Two loans were taken out to fund part of the investment and some other 
funds came from Mr Ms friend. 
The transactions were as set out below:
Date Merchant Debit/credit Amount
13 February 2019 Lender 1 Credit £5,000
14 February 2019 Lender 2 Credit £7,000
15 February 2019 Coinpop Debit £5,000
15 February 2019 Coinpop Debit £5,000
15 February 2019 Coinpop Debit £2,000
20 February 2019 Friend Credit £2,500
21 February 2019 Coinpop Debit £2,500
Total £14,500
  
Mr M was required to send passport information through to open a trading account and was 
told hed be trading through a different company  Coinpop  but he wasnt provided any 
login details, although he was present when the transactions were made as he allowed 
access to his computer through Anydesk. Mr M was shown profits on his account but when 
he asked to make a withdrawal, he was told this wasnt possible and that he could make 
withdrawals with a special card, which never arrived. This made Mr M suspicious and shortly 
after this his trading account balance reduced to zero. Although the trader tried to persuade 
him to deposit more, Mr M refused. 
Mr M subsequently asked HSBC to raise a chargeback. But as he didnt has the evidence 
required at it was raised late, it said it couldnt raise a chargeback. But it did offer £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She felt the first payment to Coinpop ought to have 
triggered HSBCs fraud alert systems as the payment was out of character for the account. 
And although the payments were legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges, the risk to its 
customer falling victim to a scam ought to have been reasonably foreseeable to it, given the 
published warnings about cryptocurrency and trading scams. She was satisfied that if HSBC 
had intervened the scam would likely have unravelled. She also considered whether Mr M 
had contributed to his loss but found he hadnt. 
HSBC disagreed and asked for the matter to referred to an ombudsman. In summary, it has 
said:
Reasonable people would be sceptical about investing large sums on the basis of an 
advert on social media. And the suggestion the merchant had special insurance 
which meant Mr M couldnt lose should have set alarm bells ringing.
It doesnt appear Mr M carried out any checks on the merchant before investing. It 
was reckless not to check whether the trader was legitimate. 
The investigator concludes the account activity was highly unusual and 
uncharacteristic but there isnt any suggestion of concerns with the named payees or 
the merchant. And the opinion refers to general concerns around the increase in 
crypto scams but not that the level of legitimate trading had also risen significantly. 
The investigator has departed from the law but not explained why. 
The conclusion that Mr M would have acted differently is hypothetical and isnt a safe 
or reliable conclusion. It considers it highly unlikely that Mr M would have accepted 
this was a scam based on one conversation, even had the payment been flagged for 
discussion. 
It only considers the losses to be foreseeable so far as anyone investing in 
cryptocurrency might suffer a loss, but it is not required to protect against a bad 
bargain. He was funding an account in his own name and the payments did not form 
part of the scam, as the scam took place on the Coinpop platform. 
Contributory negligence is only considered briefly, and it considers Mr M ignored 
some clear red flags.  
The matter was referred to me and I noted that two loans had been taken out to fund the 
investment. Via the investigator, I asked for some further information. It transpired both loans 
had been taken by Mr Ms friend, in their sole name, although he was a guarantor. He also 
confirmed that his friend had funded the final £2,500 payment which went to Coinpop. But 
the friend couldnt remember the reason given for the loans. 
I wrote to Mr M informally, as he hadnt suffered a financial loss  the funds invested had 
been his friends and not his. Mr M has since provided statements showing he has repaid his 
friend and continues to repay one of the loans, so he has suffered a financial loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay.The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result.
The payments made by Mr M were made with his debit card. I therefore conclude these 
were authorised payments  for which Mr M is liable, unless there is evidence HSBC could 
and should have done more to protect him, which I issue I now turn to. 
There doesnt appear to by any dispute Mr M has fallen victim to a scam. The FCA published 
a warning about Kruger Exchange in March 2019. Whilst this is after Mr M made his 
payments, it is only a matter of weeks later, and as such Im satisfied I can rely on this 
information. There are also reports in the public domain of others being scammed by Kruger 
Exchange.  
HSBC is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding and due diligence duties to 
protect customers. As well as decisions being published on our website setting out these 
principles and which quote the relevant rules and regulations, HSBC itself has also had a 
number of decisions setting out our position. 
We are required, and as provided for in the DISP rules, to take into account a regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice, as well as the law, when reaching a decision. And were tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances of the complaint. In doing 
so, were satisfied our approach isnt inconsistent with the law. 
Mr M made a number of payments. But none of them went directly to Kruger Exchange. 
Rather Mr M was making payments to Coinpop  a cryptocurrency exchange. The first 
payment was for £5,000. In the months leading up to that payment, Mr M rarely made a 
payment in excess of £1,000 and when he did, it wasnt that often. And I cant see that there 
were any payments to similar merchants, traders or even any investments.  This was a 
substantial increase in Mr Ms spending and to a new payee. Like the investigator, I find this 
payment was unusual and uncharacteristic and indicated a change in operation of the 
account. Im satisfied this was unusual such that HSBC systems ought to have triggered an 
alert and the payment paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or 
giving a scam warning. 
I have considered the payments were being sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
and so seemingly to Mr Ms own account with it. And I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a 
legitimate exercise. But both the FCA and Action Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency 
exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. This type of insight is something regulated 
businesses, including HSBC, ought to take notice of. So even if Mr M had been sending 
money to his own cryptocurrency exchange account, it didnt follow that his money was safe, 
in his control or that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to a fraud or scam. Indeed, in this 
case, Mr M has explained he never had access to the Coinpop account himself.    
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr M about the payment, I 
have no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. Whilst I accept it had 
no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, or give investment advice, it could 
have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure as far as is 
reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the trader was authorised by the FCA. And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and 
information that was in the public domain (already referenced) about the high-risk associated 
with trading and the potential for fraud and provided Mr M with a potential scam warning. 
In saying this, Im particularly mindful that the way this scam operated and information Mr M 
was given, was typical for a scam but not for a legitimate investment opportunity  such as 
the downloading of Anydesk, and the broker or trader having sole or partial access to the 
cryptocurrency account.  
I havent been provided with any evidence that HSBC intervened before the payment was 
made. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr M would have looked further into the investment in 
general, whether the trader was regulated here or abroad and likely would have come 
across the FCA warning for himself. I say that bearing in mind, it didnt take much for Mr Ms 
suspicions to be aroused  not being able to make a withdrawal and not receiving a card he 
was told hed received. Im satisfied an intervention by HSBC would likely have exposed the 
scam, and caused Mr M to stop trading, thereby preventing any losses. So HSBC should 
reimburse those losses. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. I also need to consider whether Mr M ought to bear some 
responsibility for the situation in which he found himself. HSBC has referred to what it has 
described as red flags and some issues on Mr Ms part and that a blind eye was turned by 
him to obvious concerns, due to the unreasonable belief in too good to be true returns. It 
considers this to be an example of contributory negligence. 
I have considered HSBCs arguments carefully. But Im afraid in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont agree with it. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr M had investment 
experience such that he ought to have realised he had been given inaccurate information, or 
that what he was told was too good to be true. HSBC has referred to the special insurance 
as being one of these issues.  However, whilst those in the financial services industry might 
recognise this as being clearly improbable, I dont believe the same could be said of 
someone that doesnt have a good knowledge of financial services or of investing. I think the 
same could be said for Mr M being told this was a low risk investment. Unless there is 
experience of investing it would be hard to gauge whether what you were told about the level 
of risk was accurate or not. 
I do take its point about investment returns, to some extent. A 15% bonus each month does 
seem too good to be true. But its also true that investing in such areas as cryptocurrency 
can produce good returns, albeit I accept (but as might not be known by the layperson) that 
such investment areas do come with a lot of volatility. I have weighed that carefully, being 
mindful of the imbalance of knowledge and/or experience between the parties  HSBC will 
have far more knowledge and insight about such matters, than the layperson.  Overall, Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to make a deduction for contributory negligence.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to:
Reimburse £14,500 to Mr M; and
8% simple interest per year to that, from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman