DRN-1854609
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank PLC discriminated against him when he visited a 
local branch and when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr S tried to use his online banking, but it was blocked. He suspected the block was 
connected to fraud on his mothers account. He contacted Barclays. Barclays told him he 
needed to wait seven days while it completed its internal review. It wouldnt tell him why it 
had blocked his account, but it allowed him to withdraw wages or benefits in branch with ID.
After seven days, he visited a local branch and was told he needed to wait nine days for the 
bank to complete its review. In the meantime, Mr S tried to make an internet payment to a 
merchant, so he transferred £25 into his account to cover it. He got a text message telling 
him he was overdrawn. As the merchant was offering a discount, which he didnt want to 
lose, he contacted Barclays again and was advised to visit a local branch with proof of his 
identity. 
On 18 March 2020, Mr S visited a local branch again. He said he asked about the balance in 
his account and he asked for more information about the block.
The cashier told him he needed to wait ten days for the bank to complete its review. There 
was a breakdown in communications, which eventually led to a confrontation with other 
customers and staff. A staff member took Mr S into a separate room and the manager spoke 
to him. However, the conversation became heated and staff called the police. Mr S left the 
premises before the police could arrive.
On the same day, Barclays wrote to Mr S giving him notice it was going to close his account. 
The letter cited his threatening behaviour towards staff and customers as the reason for 
ending its banking relationship with him.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he was 
treated badly by the staff and manager and he believes this was because of his race. He 
also said he wasnt well at the time and staff didnt care for his wellbeing. And he said it 
didnt protect him from the comments made by other customers.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She concluded that 
Barclays staff had acted professionally and had tried to be helpful. Also, she didnt find any 
evidence of discrimination or that hed been treated badly because of his race. Moreover, 
Mr S admitted that nothing was specifically said about his race. 
She also explained that Barclays was entitled to close his account under the terms and 
conditions if it believed he had behaved in a threatening and abusive manner. And she said 
she couldnt expect the staff to intervene in a dispute between customers, as they must 
consider their own safety.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said weve misunderstood his complaint and 
that its not simply about the block on his account or staff treating him unfairly. 
Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill explain why but first, I note that Mr S says his complaint is not about the 
block on his account, although he was unhappy about it. He is unhappy about his treatment 
by the staff at his local branch on 18 March 2020, so Ive looked at the events for that day.
Ive read the witness statements from the bank staff and Ive watched the video recordings, 
which Mr S made with his mobile phone. Barclays did not share its CCTV footage with us.
In summary, the staff witnesses said that Mr S was hostile to the cashier, he threw a 
scrunched-up piece of paper at her and he was shouting at staff and customers in the 
branch. The staff said they were forced to call the police.
Ive watched and listened to the video recording of his conversation with the cashier. The 
beginning of the conversation is missing so I dont know how it started but Mr S says very 
early on that he went in to find out why his card wasnt working. The cashier told him she 
couldnt tell him the reasons. She advised him he needed to wait ten days. At this point, I 
can understand why he was frustrated. Hed been told to wait seven days, then nine and 
then ten days.
I think for the most part, Mr S and the cashier were talking at cross purposes. The cashier 
refers to a direct debit and needing to issue a new card. Mr S said he hadnt asked her about 
a direct debit and hadnt requested a new card. However, he had described an internet 
payment as a direct debit, although he later added or whatever you want to call it. And he 
had complained that his card wasnt working. Later, when she told him the account balance, 
he said that was what hed asked for, yet initially he said he wanted to know why his card 
wasnt working. Im afraid I did find his evidence inconsistent and confusing.
On balance, I think Mr S went into the branch to ask why he couldnt make the internet 
payment with his card. I think its likely he called it a direct debit payment, albeit in error, and 
the cashier responded to say there wasnt a direct debit payment. The cashier couldnt tell 
him why his card wasnt working. From the information Ive seen, its unlikely she knew the 
reasons, only that there was a block on his account. And she couldnt do anything about the 
internet payment because she couldnt issue a new card (which she would have needed to 
do if he wanted to make the payment again). 
Although he spoke calmly and didnt raise his voice until the end, Mr S repeatedly 
questioned the cashier about what he had or hadnt said. Hes clearly an intelligent 
individual. However, I can see how his questioning might have felt intimidating and 
unpleasant for the cashier. I thought it sounded like a cross examination. I found that Mr S 
kept interrupting the cashier and was inconsistent in what he wanted to know. She was 
taking her cue from his questions and choice of words. I thought the cashier remained calm, 
she paused half way and she apologised. I didnt find her behaviour to be rude or 
aggressive.Whilst I understand his frustrations, the difficulty for Mr S is that he became abusive and 
threatening. In her statement, the cashier said when she handed him a piece of paper with 
her name on it, he scrunched it up and threw it at her. This incident was witnessed by 
another staff member. This is not captured on Mr Ss video because the phone is facing the 
ceiling, but I can hear a commotion which prompts a customer to tell Mr S that he is being 
rude. I dont think a bystander would intervene if nothing had happened and so I think its 
more likely than not that Mr S threw the paper at the cashier. No matter how frustrated he 
was, this was unacceptable behaviour and staff shouldnt have to tolerate it. This also 
happened a few days before the first Covid 19 lockdown was introduced, when the public 
were asked to maintain social distancing. I assume there was a partition between the cashier 
and Mr S, but Im sure this was upsetting for her.
The video also records him shouting at the customer who intervened. From what I could see 
she was an older customer. I could hear another customer intervening. He sounded like a 
younger man. By then, Im afraid its clear Mr S had lost his temper. I can hear him shouting 
at both customers and he threatened the second customer saying they should take it 
outside - an invitation to a fight. Im afraid listening to him, I think anyone in the branch 
would have been scared by his behaviour, even if he didnt intend to frighten anyone.
Another member of staff managed to calm him down and she took him into another room 
while they waited for the manager. Mr S did calm down but there followed another 
antagonistic conversation about whether the staff member handling his mothers case was a 
manager. It was not directly relevant to his case and it was a completely fruitless 
conversation, but Mr S persisted with his claim that shed told him she was a manager, even 
though she wasnt. His meeting with the manager also ended badly. The staff said he 
accused them of being racists and that he later denied saying this 
I didnt hear the staff refer to Mr Ss race. And the notes which the bank sent us dont 
mention his race, only that hed made a complaint of race discrimination. I dont need any 
explicit references to his race to decide whether hes been treated unfairly because of his 
race. I can simply look at the facts and ask if someone else of another racial group would be 
treated differently in the same circumstances. After listening to his own recordings and 
reviewing the evidence objectively, I dont consider he was treated badly or differently 
because of his race but because of his behaviour. I think the staff would have treated any 
other customer behaving like this in the same way. And thats not to say they treated him 
badly. I thought they were patient with Mr S and tried to get to the bottom of his complaint. 
Unfortunately, his anger and frustrations got in the way.
But I do also understand why an individual might believe they have been discriminated 
against even if discrimination hasnt occurred. And thats because of their own past and lived 
experiences which may shape and influence how they respond to certain situations. So, I 
dont doubt that Mr S genuinely believed he was treated badly because of his race. Its also 
possible to make a race discrimination complaint without accusing the staff of being racists. 
They are separate, distinct terms. So, I think staff might have misunderstood what he was 
saying to them. However, as Ive said, I dont think Barclays treated him differently or worse 
because of his race. 
Mr S said staff had no regard for his wellbeing. The notes from the bank refer to him taking 
strong painkillers. I assume he mentioned this when he raised a formal complaint. He didnt 
mention it in the recordings. He hasnt said why he was on painkillers and I dont know 
anything else about his health. However, I think by giving him the leeway which they did, the 
staff were trying to help him. I understand he felt let down that staff didnt defend him against the comments made by the other customers. But I dont expect bank staff to intervene in 
disputes between customers, for safety reasons and to avoid any escalation. And they are 
not obliged to intervene. There are other options, which they may want to pursue, such as 
politely asking customers to leave or to step into a separate room. Or in serious cases, to 
call the police. This is within the banks discretion. In this case, Barclays felt compelled to 
call the police eventually, but Mr S left before they could arrive. 
I cant hold Barclays responsible for the customers actions. Besides, from what I could hear, 
the customers were exasperated by his behaviour. Perhaps it was unwise, but I thought their 
response was a human and spontaneous reaction to his behaviour. 
In these circumstances, I consider that Barclays was entitled to close his account and end its 
relationship with him. The investigator set out the relevant paragraphs from the terms and 
conditions in her view and, to repeat, they say that Barclays may close an account if the 
customer behaves in a threatening or abusive manner to staff.
As for the block on his account, our investigator has explained that the staff couldnt tell him 
why his account was under review and they couldnt remove the block. It wasnt in their gift 
to do this. These decisions were taken by another team and not by the local staff. And Im 
afraid banks are not obliged to put customers on notice that they will be placing a block on 
an account before doing so. 
In summary, I dont consider that Barclays treated Mr S badly or worse because of his race. I 
think its decision to close his account was a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances 
and Im satisfied it complied with the terms and conditions of the account by giving him 
notice.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr S, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman