DRN-3426831
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), closed his bank 
account.
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here. 
In summary:
Mr B held a bank account with Halifax.
On 18 February 2020, Mr Bs account received a £2,700 credit. 
The money was withdrawn by Mr B on the same day.
Halifax received notification from the sending bank that the £2,700 was as a result 
of a fraudulent credit.
Halifax, after reviewing Mr Bs account, took the decision to withdraw Mr Bs banking 
facilities.
On 19 February 2020, Halifax wrote out to Mr B informing him of its intentions to 
close his account and let him know that the account would be closed in two months.
Mr Bs account was subsequently closed on 21 April 2020.
Mr B has advised that the funds were as a result of the sale of a car or bike. 
Halifax has explained that if Mr B can provide evidence of the original purchase of 
the bike and full proof of the sale via a receipt/invoice then it would review the matter.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, they 
considered Halifax could choose to end its banking relationship with Mr B. And it had acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and gave Mr B fair notice by 
informing him of its intentions to close the account by providing him with two months notice.
 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion and requested the complaint be looked at by 
an ombudsman. 
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear that businesses are entitled to make commercial decisions 
about how they operate. I dont have the power to tell a business how it should operate  
thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Halifax treated Mr B fairly, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, when it decided to close the account he held.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account and it states that Halifax can end 
its agreement with a consumer if it reasonably thinks that:
there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the account.
Where Halifax considers this applies, it can close a consumers account without giving 
notice. Should Halifax wish to close a consumers account for any other reason, it states it 
will give a consumer two months notice. 
So its clear from the terms and conditions that Halifax can choose to close a customers 
account. 
In this case, Halifax reviewed and then chose to close Mr Bs account and it provided him 
with two months notice. It advised Mr B on 19 February 2020 of its intentions to close the 
account and that his account would be closed in two months time. Mr Bs account was 
subsequently closed on 21 April 2020.
Overall, taking everything into account, I am satisfied that the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed for Halifax to choose to close Mr Bs account  and in this case it provided 
him with two months notice.
I also consider it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to do so. I say this because Halifax has 
a duty of care to its customers and has an obligation to ensure it protects its customers from 
the risk of potential financial harm. Where there are concerns that an account may be being 
used fraudulently it has an obligation to step in due to the risk posed to it and its customers. 
Mr B hasnt provided either Halifax or our service any evidence to show his proof of 
entitlement to the funds that credited his account. So Halifaxs decision to close his account 
seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is in line with its terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman