DRN-3143103
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds service in 
connection with his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Watford includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ks van was hit by a passing motorist (the third party) who didn't stop. Mr K contacted 
Watford to talk about making a claim. It told him that because - at that time - he didn't know 
who the third party was any claim against his own policy would be a fault claim as Watford 
wouldn't be able to recover its outlay - what it pays to settle a claim - from the third party or 
their insurer. Mr K didn't submit a claim at that point.
Mr K later identified the third party by looking at a neighbours CCTV. The third party then 
accepted liability for the accident. Mr K contacted Watford again. It told him that if he claimed 
on his policy he would have to pay his £1,100 excess. It said that another option would be to 
refer him to an accident management company, which I'll refer to as A, which could take his 
claim forward outside of the terms of his Watford policy. Mr K chose that option.
Mr K then pursued his claim through A. He was very unhappy with As service. In particular 
he was unhappy with the quality of the repairs As garage had carried out. As well as 
complaining to A directly he also complained to Watford.
Watford contacted A on Mr Ks behalf to try and help him. Watford replied to his complaint in 
March 2021. It told him that as it was A, rather than Watford, that had arranged repairs it 
wasn't responsible for Mr Ks complaints about those. But it paid Mr K £100 as a goodwill 
gesture.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
20 October 2021. For ease I've copied my provisional decision below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford is Mr Ks comprehensive motor insurer. That means that, in the event of a claim on 
his policy, it will cover him for the risks and liabilities insured. And it will remain responsible 
for any action it takes in response to a claim on that motor policy.
But, in this case, Mr K didn't make a claim on his motor insurance policy with Watford. After 
he identified the third partys details he spoke with Watford. It told him that he could claim 
from his policy, but he'd have to pay his £1,100 excess. Alternatively, Mr K could pursue his 
claim, without paying his excess, by using As services. Mr K chose to do that.
A is an entirely separate company to Watford. A is an accident management company, not 
an insurer. That means that, when responding to a claim like Mr Ks, A sorts our hire 
vehicles and repairs on whats known as a credit hire basis. And firms operating on a credit 
hire basis do so on the expectation that they will claim their costs back from the third party 
insurers. So, when pursuing a claim on a credit hire basis, the company doing so, in this 
case A, is acting entirely outside of the scope of its clients, in this case Mr Ks, 
comprehensive motor insurance policy. So Mr K wasn't claiming on his Watford policy at all. 
Instead he signed an agreement with A, authorising it to act directly for him and to claim its 
costs for settling his claim back from the third party insurer.
In other words, A isn't employed or instructed by Watford. So A doesnt act as Watford's 
agents or representatives, it was solely acting for Mr K. And once Watford had referred Mr K 
to A, Watford wasnt responsible for the progress of the claim or for the quality of the repairs. 
Thats the case even though Watford occasionally liaised with A on Mr Ks behalf. That 
means that Watford isn't responsible for any of As actions or anything that might have gone 
wrong with the repairers A chose to use.
In this case the complaint that Mr K brought to us was that he was unhappy with the quality 
of the repairs A had organised and the ongoing problems he was experiencing as a result. 
Particularly that his van still had various faults after those repairs. And, having read the file in 
full I can understand his frustration. But, as I've said above, Watford simply isn't responsible 
for the quality of the repairs A arranged. So Mr Ks complaint is essentially about As actions 
and not Watfords.
It follows that I don't think its Watford's fault that Mr Ks van still hasn't been repaired to the 
standard he wanted it to be, that remains the case even though Watfords tried to help him 
with the issue. Any complaint Mr K has about the quality of repairs remains the responsibility 
of A and not Watford. And I noted that Watford explained this to Mr K when it responded to 
his complaint. So I don't think Watford has dealt with Mr K unfairly.
For completeness, I can see that Watfords recently told Mr K that it would consider repairing 
his van under the terms of his policy if he can provide independent engineering evidence 
that the remaining repair issues are accident related. It seems that Mr K isn't happy with that 
approach. But as that is a matter that has arisen since Watford responded to Mr Ks 
complaint in March 2021, and so isn't a matter Watford has responded directly to a 
complaint about, it's not appropriate for me to consider any concerns Mr K might have about 
that in this decision.
Neither Mr K nor Watford made any comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr K nor Watford objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman