DRN-3012250
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont backdate his motor insurance policy to the 
date he first tried to buy it. He wants it to cover his legal costs to take the matter to court. 
What happened
Mr H applied for a policy from AXA online. But, five days later, he was stopped by the police 
for driving whilst uninsured and faced a fine and six points on his licence. He then took out a 
new policy with AXA and wanted it to provide proof that he had a policy from the date he first 
applied for it. AXA said Mr H hadnt completed the online application and it would provide 
cover only from the date Mr H called it. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
evidence from Mr Hs bank and AXA showed that Mr H had made a genuine attempt to buy 
the cover when he made the online application. This included inputting a passcode supplied 
by his bank. But the transaction didnt complete and timed out. So he couldnt say that AXA 
had done anything wrong or needed to pay Mr Hs legal fees. 
But he thought Mr H had done all he needed to do and had acted in goodwill when making 
the purchase. No one could explain why the transaction hadnt gone through. AXA showed 
that there were no system errors that day. So he asked AXA to consider indemnifying Mr H 
for five days from the date of his application as a gesture of goodwill. 
AXA replied that it was willing to provide an indemnity letter and wouldnt charge Mr H for the 
extra five days cover. 
But Mr H wanted it to cover the £3,000 legal fees he had incurred. He thought AXA should 
have indemnified him when he was stopped by the police and so he would have avoided this 
cost. He also said that when hed made the payment online through AXAs payment 
provider, hed been told the payment was successful and so he closed his browser. He said 
he didnt know that he had to wait to be transferred back to AXA for confirmation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Ive looked to see if AXA did anything wrong that prevented Mr Hs 
policy being successfully taken out as he expected when he made his online application. 
AXA has provided us with evidence from its own system and its payment processors system 
to show the process Mr H followed when he applied for his policy. From what I can see, after 
he completed his application Mr H was taken to an overlaid screen where he inputted his 
passcode from his bank. So I think Mr H thought hed done all that was needed to buy his 
policy.
But the payment processor found that the payment was presented but didn't complete and 
returned an error code. It said this error code is found when a web browser is closed before 
the payment has had a chance to complete. 
So the connection was lost or interrupted. But I cant say what caused this. It could have 
been caused by Mr H closing his browser before he was taken back to AXAs screen, or it 
could have been caused by an internet or other connection error. AXA has shown evidence 
that it didnt have any system errors during that session. 
Mr H didnt receive confirmation from AXA that his application to buy the policy had been 
successful. So I cant say that AXA did anything wrong in the process when Mr H tried to buy 
his policy. But I also think that Mr H made a genuine attempt to buy his policy and thought 
his payment had been taken.
At our investigators suggestion, AXA agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to provide Mr H with 
a letter of indemnity for the five days between when he tried to take out his policy and when 
he was stopped by the police. I think that was very fair in the circumstances as I dont think 
AXA did anything wrong. So Mr H was able to avoid the conviction, the points on his licence 
and a fine, and he didnt need to travel to attend court.
But Mr H thought AXA had lied to him when it told him when he was stopped by the police 
that it couldnt backdate his policy. He thought that if it had given him the correct information 
he could then have avoided £3,000 in legal costs. 
I agree that AXA didnt give Mr H an accurate answer as AXA could have then provided 
indemnity. So I think AXA could have more accurately told Mr H that it wouldnt backdate 
his cover. 
When a customer has been given wrong information, I have to consider what would have 
happened if they'd been given the right information. And in Mr Hs case, the right information 
was that AXA could backdate cover on a policy, but it wouldn't as it didn't feel it had done 
anything wrong. 
But if this had happened, I think Mr H would still have been in the same position. It was only 
after the complaint had been thoroughly investigated that AXA agreed to provide him with 
indemnity as a gesture of goodwill. So I can't say that AXA telling him it couldn't rather than 
wouldnt backdate the cover has made any difference to the outcome. I cant see any 
evidence that AXA was responsible for Mr Hs policy not being put in place. And so I dont 
require AXA to reimburse Mr Hs legal costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman