DRN-2900100
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) caused delays and 
upset during repairs, following a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr A and Mrs P are joint policyholders. However, Mrs P is the person who lives at the 
property, and Mr A is her son.
In September 2020, Mr A and Mrs P made a claim after they noticed water damage to the 
floor in the wet room. RSA found the shower waste trap seal had broken. It accepted the 
claim, and it undertook the repairs. 
The repairs started in October 2020 and were completed in February 2021. Mr A and Mrs P 
complained about the delays during this period. RSA offered them £200 compensation, and 
a further £360 to reimburse the cost of some private works its contractor had carried out.
Mr A and Mrs P remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service. One of 
investigators thought £400 compensation should be paid.
RSA thought £400 compensation was high for what it perceived as two months of delay. It 
noted it had also agreed to cover non-insured works on a good will basis. However, RSA 
accepted our investigators outcome in the hope it would resolve matters.
Mr A said the work should have taken a month, but it took five months. He also noted he had 
paid for his own plumber to try to identify an alleged leak; his dissatisfaction at the alternative 
accommodation offered to Mrs P; and the time he had spent chasing the parties involved in 
the claim. Mrs P also queried outstanding electricity consumption costs.
Because Mr A and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators assessment, their complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill set out my findings under the following three headings: alternative accommodation; 
delays; and plumber and electricity costs.
Alternative accommodation
I understand the works were initially estimated to take until mid-November 2020. Once the 
strip-out works had been undertaken to the wet room, Mrs P was without a bathroom. So, 
the parties agreed that a bathroom pod would be installed outside her property for this 
period.
When it became evident the works would continue beyond mid-November, due to concerns 
about Mrs P having to go outside in the winter to use the bathroom, RSA offered two other 
options. It offered to pay for a rental property, or to re-fit the toilet and install a shower pod 
inside her home.
Ive seen that, despite repeated offers from mid-November onwards, Mrs P declined those 
two options. Mrs P was concerned a shower pod might damage her carpet and she didnt 
think there was enough space for one in her home. She was also reluctant to leave her 
home and possessions.
I acknowledge the only property RSA could find that would accommodate her dog, was near 
a student area. I can understand why she didnt want to be without her dog, or in a student 
area (particularly during the pandemic). However, I cant reasonably hold RSA responsible 
for that. I also havent seen Mr A and Mrs P made their own alternative accommodation 
suggestions, despite being invited to do so.
I accept having to use an outside bathroom pod for about four months over the winter period 
wouldnt have been convenient, particularly in view of Mrs Ps health. But I havent seen 
anything that persuades me RSA treated her unfairly in relation to this.
Delays
Based on RSAs file, I understand the works took about two and a half months longer than 
originally anticipated. Two issues arose during that time. The first was the level of the floor 
and shower tray, impacting drainage and the laying of the specialist flooring. The second 
was a suspected leak from the shower water supply, after further damp was found in the 
cupboard underneath the stairs.
Insurance claims of this nature naturally involve a degree of inconvenience and uncertainty 
whilst issues are being investigated, or when further issues arise during the repairs. I can 
only reasonably hold an insurer responsible for matters that were avoidable, or where it 
didnt take adequate steps to put matters right.
Im not persuaded RSA could have done much differently in respect of the suspected shower 
leak. In my view, it was appropriate for it to explore the issue, even though it was later found 
there wasnt a leak. 
However, I consider it likely that RSA could have determined much quicker, what work was 
needed to correct pre-existing issues relating to the floor level; and been clearer with Mr A 
and Mrs P about that. There was an unlawful lot of toing and throwing in my view; and on 
several occasions when the floor was due to be laid, it couldnt be, as RSA hadnt yet 
resolved or understood the issues. I can understand Mr A and Mrs Ps upset here.
Having said that, although the claim lasted about five months from when RSA was notified of 
the damage, Ive only seen the repair completion was delayed by about two and half months. 
I dont doubt this impacted Mrs P given her bathroom situation. But as set out above, RSA 
did offer alternative arrangements whilst the work was ongoing, and Im satisfied it treated 
her fairly in this regard.
RSA has also offered to reimburse Mr A and Mrs P the £360 they paid its contractor, for the 
private works to rectify the pre-existing floor level issue. I consider its offer to be fair given 
their experience with that matter.Overall, Im persuaded that £400, in addition to RSA covering the £360 private works, is fair 
compensation, for the delay and upset it can reasonably be held responsible for. Ive not 
seen anything that would lead me to award a higher amount.
Plumber and electricity costs
RSA offered to reimburse Mr A for his £48 plumbing invoice, at the time. Im satisfied its 
reasonable for it to do so, given Mr As investigations were prompted by RSA.
RSA also offered to reimburse Mr A for the electricity usage whilst the drying equipment was 
at the property. RSAs file confirms a total of £47.89 is due (£15.77 for the initial period; and 
£32.12 for the second period, after further damp was discovered).
If Mrs P believes her utility bills increased beyond £47.89, due to the bathroom pod being 
used instead of her wet room, she will need to present evidence to RSA for it to consider. 
Ive not seen anything that leads me to believe increased costs were incurred, due to the 
bathroom pod.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should, if it hasnt already:
- pay Mr A and Mrs P £400 compensation, in total;
- reimburse Mr A and Mrs P £360 for their private works to the floor;
 
- reimburse Mr A and Mrs P £48 for their plumbers invoice; and
- reimburse Mr A and Mrs P £47.89 for the electricity used by the drying equipment 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman