DRN-2828247
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the total loss settlement Ageas Insurance Limited paid when 
she made a claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss S was involved in an incident with another vehicle and her car was damaged. She 
made a claim to her insurer, Ageas. It said it wasnt economical for it to repair Miss Ss car. 
So Ageas settled her claim by paying the market value of the car minus the excess owed 
under the policy. 
Miss S was unhappy with the valuation Ageas paid. She complained but Ageas said it 
wouldnt pay any more. So Miss S asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator followed our approach to valuation complaints and checked the main motor 
trade guides to see if the valuation Ageas had paid was reasonable. He found that it was. So 
he didnt recommend Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. 
Miss S didnt agree. She provided examples of advertised cars for sale similar to hers. She 
says she cant get her car repaired for the settlement amount Ageas has paid. 
So she wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Miss Ss policy with Ageas says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of her car at the time of loss. An insurer isnt obliged to repair a car if it isnt 
economical for it to do so. 
To decide if Ageas reached a valuation in a reasonable way, we checked independent motor 
trade guides that provide valuations for cars in the month of loss based on likely selling 
prices. They can provide valuations based on the same make, model, age, condition and 
mileage as Miss Ss car. 
We find they tend to be more reliable that adverts as they can vary widely - and they usually 
have a margin built in to negotiate a reduction on the asking price. 
The quote provided by Miss S to repair her car is higher than the settlement Ageas paid. I 
understand Miss S wants to have her car repaired rather than replace it. But that doesnt 
mean Ageas needs to pay more than the market value. 
Weve checked the trade guides and found that the total loss settlement Ageas paid Miss S 
for her car was above the range of the guides. 
Ive looked at the example adverts Miss S has provided. But they arent comparable with her 
car as the mileage is much lower. So  taking everything into account  I think Ageas settled 
Miss Ss claim reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss S  but this means Im not asking Ageas to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman