DRN-3923075
The complaint
Mr O complained that Santander UK plc debited his account with £1,800 for cash 
withdrawals. He says he only received £800. Mr O also complained about customer service 
from Santander.
What happened
On 17 December 2021, Mr O went to a Santander branch to withdraw cash. 
There are different versions of what happened.
- Mr Os version is that he wanted to withdraw £1,000 in cash. He went to a till, put his 
card in the machine at the cashiers desk, and asked for £1,000 cash. Mr O said the 
cashier said she didnt have enough cash, but she would increase the limit of Mr Os 
card to £500, so he could take out two lots of £500 from the cash machine. While Mr 
O was standing there, another cashier came to the till and gave the cashier more 
money. 
Mr O went to the cash machine as the cashier had told him to, and twice tried to 
withdraw £500. He tried again, and was able to get two lots of £400, making £800 in 
all. 
- Santanders version is that Mr O asked for around £2,000. The branch was starting to 
run short of money due to the large number of withdrawals for Christmas, so it was 
advising customers to use the cash machine, increasing their withdrawal limits so 
they could do this. The cashier said she did a £500 withdrawal for Mr O, paying 25 x 
£20 notes. She increased the limit on his card and said hed need to do several 
withdrawals as the machine wouldnt give him £1,500 in one transaction.
When Mr O received his January statement, he saw that it showed not only the £800 he said 
hed received, but also two withdrawals for £500. He and his wife went back to the branch to 
sort it out. He said that the first person they spoke to, at the customer service welcome desk, 
said she didnt understand how it could be £1,800, because the maximum daily limit was 
£1,500. He was then passed to a cashier, who said shed look at the cameras, and gave Mr 
O a phone number to ring, to report that he hadnt had money from the cash machine.
The branch cashier rang and left an answerphone message, saying that CCTV showed that 
the cashier had counted the money and had given it to Mr O. Mr O returned the call and the 
branch manager answered the call. Mr O said the manager said Stop, I know all about your 
problem and said it could be clearly seen that Mr O had had the money. Mr O said the 
manager then said hed been looking at a different camera, but the cashier had counted out 
the money and had given it to Mr O who had put the money in his pocket. Mr O told the 
manager that this was untrue. 
The manager made an appointment for Mr O and his wife to go into the branch on 21 
January, where they were shown a video on a tablet. Again theres a conflict of evidence:
- Mr O said they could see him at the counter, and could see the cashier counting 
money but he hadnt received it. They could also see Mr O taking his card and going 
to the cash machine. Mr O also said that the manager had sharply said I will put this 
in as a complaint and said Mr O would receive a letter about the complaint, but hed 
never had one. 
Mr O also said that after leaving the branch, someone rang his phone, and asked if 
he was speaking to Mr O, then asked if he had a dispute with Santander. Mr O said 
yes, but the man just thanked him and rang off. 
- Santander said that the video showed the cashier issuing the 25 x £20 notes, 
together with a receipt. It said that when shown the money handed over, Mr O had 
said Well I did not get it. The manager asked Mr O what hed needed the cash for, 
because it was unusual to have such a large cash withdrawal request even near 
Christmas. The manager asked Mr O whether he could remember the spending, and 
Mr O had said he couldnt remember but had wanted the money for this and that. 
Unfortunately Santander deleted the video evidence, so I cant view it.
On 4 February, Mr O received two letters from Santander. One said that Santander would 
credit his account with £500 until the cash machine was reviewed, and the other said that 
£500 would be withdrawn because Santander had looked into it and the £500 had been paid 
out. 
Mr O contacted this service, and told us what had happened. He said that he and his wife 
had been left upset, anxious, stressed, and not sleeping at night. He said they felt let down 
by the Santander branch.
Our investigator obtained technical evidence from Santander, about the till and branch 
balancing on 17 December, and also technical evidence about the cash machine. Santander 
also sent testimony from three members of staff who reviewed the video footage. 
From this technical evidence, the investigator saw evidence of three successful cash 
withdrawals at the cash machine: one for £500 and two for £400, and the records showed 
that the right notes were dispensed for these amounts.  There was also technical evidence 
which showed there were no notes left in the machine after the withdrawals. 
And the records also showed that Mr O had tried to make two more cash withdrawals from 
the machine, after the three successful ones.  One was for £250 and another for £300.  But 
these had been rejected because the increased limit for machine withdrawals was £1,500 
per day. The three successful cash machine withdrawals, for £500, £400 and £400 totalled 
£1,300 which was why the requests for £250 or £300 would have taken it over the £1,500 
limit. 
So the investigator said that he thought it was more likely than not that Mr O had received a 
total of £1,800 cash. 
Mr O replied saying he wasnt satisfied and as a loyal customer of Santander for almost 20 
years, hed never been treated so badly by a company which based itself on a motto of 
customer satisfaction.
Mr O said that his evidence had ben that hed initially tried to make two £500 withdrawals at 
the cash machine, but these had failed. He asked why the investigator had been able to see 
two subsequent failed withdrawals for £250 and £300, but not the two £500 failed 
withdrawals before the two £400 ones.Mr O also said that he had major concerns about the counter transaction that was supposed 
to have happened when in fact it hadnt. He asked whether it should have been standard 
practice for any CCTV about a complaint to have been retained. Mr O said that would clearly 
have shown he hadnt received the money. And he said that the branch having increased the 
limit on his card withdrawal showed that he hadnt received any money from the counter.
Mr O said there were more unanswered questions than evidence, so he felt the balance of 
probabilities should conclude in his favour. He said it had caused him stress, torture and 
financial loss, which would have lasting effects on him.
The investigator said he was sorry to hear of Mr Os disappointment, and explained that hed 
seen the audit trails which showed all the cash machine withdrawals, including any declined 
attempts. There hadnt been any evidence of failed £500 withdrawals. And while the 
investigator agreed CCTV would have shown what happened, Santander no longer had it so 
he hadnt been able to use it, and had had to focus on the other evidence. He said that the 
cashiers evidence had been that the reason why Mr Os limit had been increased was that 
hed wanted around £2,000, which was more than the £500 the cashier had available.
Mr Os complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that I was sorry to hear that Mr O had been so distressed 
by the incident. I could understand that it would have been upsetting, when Mr O felt sure 
about what had happened. 
I said that it was disappointing not to have the CCTV, when both sides had viewed it but had 
said it showed different things. And I could understand why Mr O felt that Santander should 
have kept it when there was a known complaint. But CCTV often isnt available to us, 
because many organisations only retain it for 30 days before recording over it.  And CCTV 
doesnt always show everything that wed like. For example, both sides agree here that it 
showed Mr O at the till, and the cashier counting out some money. But it might be that the 
position of the camera didnt show, for example, Mr Os hand identifiably taking the cash  
so it would still have been inconclusive. It often happens that this service doesnt have all the 
evidence wed like. And when that happens, I take my decision on what I think is most likely 
to have happened, taking into account what evidence is available.
What I do have here is a significant amount of technical evidence. 
The disputed withdrawals
For the disputed £500 transaction at the counter, I saw the evidence that the cashiers till 
balanced that day, and the electronic slip confirming the withdrawal. 
For the disputed £500 cash machine withdrawal, I saw whats called the journal roll which 
shows all the transactions which Mr O attempted. There were no initial failed or rejected £500 withdrawal requests. There was the disputed £500 withdrawal, which showed the cash 
successfully dispensed, at 15:45. Then there were the two undisputed £400 withdrawals at 
15:51 and 15:53. Then there was a rejected £250 withdrawal at 15:54 and a rejected £300 
withdrawal at 15:55. 
As Ive explained above, the reason why the £250 and £300 withdrawals were rejected was 
that the maximum daily limit for cash machine withdrawals on Mr Os card was £1,500.  The 
dispensed £500, £400, and £400 withdrawals totalled £1,300. So a requested withdrawal for 
£250 or £350 would have taken the withdrawals over the daily £1,500 limit.
I also saw the technical evidence showing the cash machine balanced. Also, I saw evidence 
showing whats called the purge box, which is where any money not properly dispensed 
would have gone. The technical evidence didnt show me anything which indicated that the 
disputed £500 withdrawal money went into there.
I recognised that Mr O feels very strongly about his complaint. But in the light of the strong 
technical evidence, I had to conclude that it was more likely than not that the money Mr O 
received from Santander was £500 at the till, followed by £500, £400 and £400 at the cash 
machine, making a total of £1,800. This matches with what his statement shows. So I didnt 
uphold Mr Os complaint in relation to the withdrawals. 
Santanders response to Mr Os complaint
Mr O said, and I accepted, that when he and his wife went back to the branch on 21 
January, the manager told him that hed receive a letter explaining things and how he could 
make contact with this service. He never received one.
I asked Santander for a copy of any letter, called a final response letter, which it might have 
sent to Mr O as its response to his complaint. Santander said that it understood it didnt have 
to send any such letter if it had been able to resolve a complaint within three working days of 
the complaint. But it accepted that the manager hadnt resolved the complaint, and had 
closed Mr Os complaint without issuing a letter. Santander agreed that the manager should 
have sent Mr O a letter. But it said that there hadnt been any impact on Mr O, because he 
had contacted this service, which the letter would have said.
There are rules, set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, about complaints. 
These are set out in a handbook and the relevant section starts at DISP 1.4, which is about 
investigating, assessing and resolving complaints. 
The rule in DISP 1.5 does indeed say that if a complaint is resolved by the end of the third 
working day on which it has been received, the financial organisation doesnt have to issue a 
letter. But Mr Os complaint hadnt been resolved. 
And DISP 1.6 says that on receipt of a complaint, a financial organisation must send the 
complainant a prompt written acknowledgement providing early reassurance that it has 
received the complaint and is dealing with it.  It also says that by the end of eight weeks after 
receipt of the complaint, the financial organisation must send a Final Response, which either 
accepts or rejects the complaint. This must also include referral rights to this service. If this 
isnt possible, it should update the customer and explain why it isnt in a position to make a 
final response.
I accepted that it would have been clear to the manager that Mr O was far from satisfied  it 
appears to have been an acrimonious meeting. So the manager should have followed the 
rules and issued a letter to Mr O. He didnt do so and the complaint was closed instead.Its not the role of this service to punish a financial business for something its done wrong  
thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But I can consider the impact 
on Mr O and whether Santander should pay him compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience which this caused him.
Final response letters need to contain referral information about this service. Its true that, as 
Santander argues, Mr O contacted this service about his complaint anyway. So he wasnt 
disadvantaged in not knowing about this service. 
But it was clear from Mr Os complaint to this service that he wanted a reply to his complaint. 
It would have been understandably upsetting just to receive two letters simultaneously, one 
with the temporary credit and the other saying the temporary credit would be debited  but 
with no response to his actual complaint. Mr O said the whole matter had left him very upset, 
anxious, stressed and not sleeping, and that the Santander branch had let him down as a 
loyal customer. Some of this distress would naturally have been about the loss of the money. 
But I accepted that the lack of a response to his complaint, coming on top of the difficult 
meeting with the manager in the branch, would have added to this distress. So I said that 
subject to comments I received from both sides by the date for responses to my provisional 
decision, I intended to order Santander to pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not providing him with a final response to his complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander accepted the provisional decision, and said it agreed to pay Mr O £100 
compensation for not providing him with a final response to his complaint.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that hed gone into the branch to withdraw £1,000, and if hed 
received £500 at the counter, all hed have needed was another £500 from the cash 
machine. He said hed had two failed attempts to withdraw £500 at the cash machine, which 
was why he reduced the amount to £400 to see whether it would pay out the money, which it 
did for two transactions. Mr O said he hadnt tried to withdraw any other money, and hed left 
the branch with £800.
Mr O also said that when he and his wife went to meet the branch manager and view the 
CCTV, the experience had been frightening to say the least so theyd contacted the police 
when theyd left the branch. Mr O said the police had told him that they couldnt do anything 
until there was an investigation within the bank, and if Mr O then wasnt satisfied he should 
go back to the police. 
Mr O asked whether there had been a CCTV recording of his meeting with the branch 
manager. He also re-sent his original complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive considered Mr Os response to the provisional decision. I can see that hes 
repeated his original evidence about what he said had happened. Hes added that he and 
his wife went to the police after the meeting with the branch manager, but thats a matter 
between Mr O and the police, so I cant comment on that. 
Mr O has now asked whether there was any CCTV of his meeting with the branch manager. 
I cant see that Mr O has asked Santander for this before. But even if CCTV had been 
recorded in an individual meeting room where no cash handling was involved, I think its most unlikely that it would still be available so long after the events. This is particularly so 
when Santander had deleted the CCTV at the actual till, after Mr O and his wife had viewed 
it. And CCTV, without sound, of three individuals in a meeting room would be most unlikely 
to help resolve the central issue of this case  which is how much was paid to Mr O at the till 
and at the cash machine. For that issue, Ive relied on the technical evidence, and what Mr O 
and Santander have said. 
So, having reconsidered all the evidence, I consider that my provisional decision was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
- I do not uphold Mr Os complaint that Santander should have refunded him for the 
withdrawals he disputed;
- I uphold Mr Os complaint about Santander not having issued a response to his 
complaint, and I order Santander to pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him by this omission.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman