DRN-2947494
The complaint
Ms D complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c has turned down a claim she made on her private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D has a personal private medical insurance policy. She suffers from cauda equina, which 
was covered by her policy following a 12-month moratorium period. 
In May 2019, Ms D was admitted onto a specialist ward for a three-week residential pain 
management programme. She remained on the programme for two weeks, before being 
discharged early. She made a claim on her policy for hospitalisation benefit for the time she 
spent as an inpatient.
MetLife turned down Ms Ds claim. It said the ward Ms D was being treated on didnt fall 
within its definition of a hospital. Thats because it said Ms D was part of a rehabilitation 
programme, which was specifically excluded from policy cover.
Ms D was unhappy with MetLifes decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our senior investigator didnt think Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged 
that Ms D had been admitted to undergo a pain management programme. But he felt that 
the policy terms made it clear that MetLifes definition of a hospital didnt include separate 
wards or centres which provided rehabilitation. And he was satisfied that information about 
the pain management programme provided on the specialist website showed it was part of 
an overall rehabilitation programme. So he felt it was fair for MetLife to rely on its policy 
terms to turn down Ms Ds claim.
Ms D disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, I think it was fair for MetLife to turn down 
her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt 
turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Ms 
Ds policy and the available evidence, to decide whether MetLife handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Ms Ds policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
MetLife. The policy provides: 
A daily benefit if you are admitted to a UK hospital for over 24 hours:
- as a result of an accident, or
- as a result of sickness if you are admitted to hospital after you have had your policy for at 
least 12 months.
The policy defines what MetLife means by a hospital. It says: hospital means a UK 
institution, registered as a hospital in accordance with official UK legislation, which has 
accommodation for resident patients and facilities for diagnosis, surgery and treatment 
including hospices where admittance is for terminal prognosis care. It does not include a 
long-term care nursing unit, a geriatric or pre-convalescent ward or an extended care facility 
for convalescence or rehabilitation. (Bold is my emphasis).
Theres no dispute that Ms D was admitted into a specialist ward, which was part of a 
national hospital in May 2019. The clinical summary from the specialist unit says:
The patient was admitted on 28/05/2019 for a proposed 3 week inpatient Pain 
Management programme aimed at improving her coping with her condition. This would 
involve group and one-to-one sessions with physiotherapists, occupational therapists and 
psychology. 
MetLife looked into the ward Ms D was admitted into. It considered the available NHS 
information showed that this ward was a specialist rehabilitation ward, rather than a ward 
which provided diagnosis, surgery or treatment. While it acknowledged Ms D had been 
admitted for a pain management programme, it noted that this still took part in a 
dedicated rehabilitation facility as part of a rehabilitation programme. So it didnt think Ms 
Ds treatment took place in a hospital as defined by the policy terms.
Ive thought carefully about this and the medical evidence Ms Ds provided. I too have 
looked at the online information about the pain management programme Ms D was 
admitted on to. This states clearly that the programme does not involve medical 
treatments. It says that during the programme, patients will have a combination of 
educational, exercise, psychological and problem-solving sessions. The specific box 
relating to the pain management programme also mentions rehabilitation programmes at 
the specialist ward where Ms D was undergoing the programme.
So based on the wards own information, it doesnt appear that Ms D was receiving 
medical treatment; she wasnt given a new diagnosis during her admission (it appears 
shed had a diagnosis of cauda equina a couple of years before) or surgery. And the 
evidence suggests the pain management programme took place in a separate, specialist 
ward as part of an overall rehabilitation programme. On this basis then, I think it was fair 
for MetLife to conclude that Ms Ds claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Overall, while I sympathise with Ms Ds position, I think MetLife acted reasonably when it 
turned down her claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman