DRN-3820862
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined to pay the full cost of his claim 
for storm damage, under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In mid-February 2022 Mr B made a claim to Aviva for damage caused to the roof of his 
house and garage during a storm. The storm had caused several roof tiles to be blown off. 
He arranged for a contractor to inspect the damage and obtained an estimate for the full 
repairs needed. Mr B contacted Aviva in early March to communicate this information. He 
says Aviva told him an assessor would visit in two days. 
Mr B arranged for temporary repairs to the damaged section of his roof. He says no 
assessor arrived from Aviva. He called it again on 16 March 2022 and was told an assessor 
would visit within five days. Mr B says the assessor didnt arrive until 5 April. At this point his 
contractor had completed the repairs. 
Mr B says the assessor took an aggressive attitude from the start and would only authorise a 
payment of around £400. After the policy excess this left a payment of around £50. Mr B 
says this is far less than the cost of the repairs, which came to £1,760. 
Aviva says as repairs were completed before its inspection, it couldnt verify the cause of the 
damage. It says Mr B had no photos or other evidence to support his claim. Its assessor 
reported that there were signs of a gradual cause necessitating some of the repairs. But it 
says it agreed to cover the cost of replacing the roof tiles, which it estimated at £404.59. 
After the policy excess this left a payment of £54.59. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He says the damage was caused by the storm and he wasnt 
able to provide photos as he didnt have a working camera. Mr B says the estimate from his 
contractor confirms the repairs were needed due to the recent storm. 
Aviva offered Mr B £100 for the delay at the start of his claim but didnt change its decision 
regarding the settlement payment. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He 
thought the assessors view was persuasive that the repairs to the mortar were necessary 
due to gradual deterioration over time. He says this isnt an insured cause under Mr Bs 
policy terms. Our investigator says its Mr Bs responsibility to show that an insured event 
had caused the damage. He didnt think Mr B had done this and thought Aviva had acted 
reasonably in response to his claim. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether damage 
that is claimed for relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions is no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Aviva doesnt dispute that storm conditions were experienced at the time of Mr Bs loss. So, I 
can move on to the next question.
The damage reported was to tiles that were blown off the roof of Mr Bs house and his 
garage. I think roof tiles blown off by strong winds is typical of damage caused by a storm. 
So, Im satisfied the answer to question two is yes. 
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. Ive read the information Avivas assessor recorded after his inspection. This 
says:
The customer advised one roof tile came out of the main house roof and two out of the 
garage roof. A roofer has attended the property and replaced three roof tiles and pointed the 
rear verges to the house roof and two verges to the garage roof charging £1760.00. The 
customer got a scaffold erected as a favour from a friend. The cost that the roofer has 
charged is astronomical for the repairs that have been carried out. The customer did not take 
any photographs to substantiate the storm damage to the roof before repairs were carried 
out. It is my considered professional opinion that the breakdowns to the verges were due to 
a gradual process loss and not storm related
...I have scheduled for the storm damage areas only.. schedule totals £404.59. I have 
calculated a cash settlement by deducting the £350.00 policy excess which makes £54.59.. I 
fully explained to the customer that without photographs the customer can not substantiate 
the entire claim. 
Mr Bs policy terms, under the section relating to storm claims, say:
We will not cover loss or damage that happens gradually.
On the second page of the policy booklet the terms say:
Proving your loss
If you need to make a claim, you need to prove any loss. So keep hold of any receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards to help with your claim.
From the assessors report, part of the damage claimed resulted from a gradual cause. Mr B 
hasnt provided photographs to show the damage as it was prior to his contractor carrying 
out repairs. I think its reasonable to expect Aviva to be able validate a claim to assess whether its covered under its policy terms. This is made clear in the wording Ive highlighted 
above. The policy booklet also explains that Mr B should read his policy terms carefully. So, I 
think he should reasonably have been aware of what was expected in these circumstances. 
Ive also looked at the records from Mr Bs claim provided by Aviva. This indicates Mr B was 
advised, when he called on 16 March 2022, that it would be helpful to take pictures of the 
damage. He was sent a text message confirming this as well.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comment that he didnt have a working camera. However, I think its 
reasonable to expect that he couldve borrowed one or used a phone with a camera to take 
some images. Alternatively, He could also have asked the contractor who provided the quote 
to take some photos. Either at the time of their initial visit or when the temporary repairs 
were carried out. Without this information Mr B hadnt met the requirement of his policy to 
prove his loss. 
Mr B says his contractors estimate refers to damage caused by the storm. I dont dispute 
this. But this isnt a detailed report showing how the damage had occurred. I dont think this 
is more persuasive than the assessors expert opinion, which says the damage was in part 
the result of a gradual cause. 
Aviva accepts storm conditions were responsible for some of the damage, namely the tiles 
that blew off but not the damage to the roof verges. I think this is fair based on the evidence 
Ive seen. 
Ive thought about whether it was necessary for Mr B to carry out the repairs before Avivas 
assessor inspected the damage. Hes confirmed that temporary repairs were implemented to 
prevent further damage occurring. I can understand why Mr B wanted to get on with the 
repairs quickly and that he had been kept waiting by Aviva. Hed also been promised 
appointment times for the inspection that werent met. But his property was secure from 
further damage, and his policy terms are clear that he must prove his loss. I dont think he 
acted reasonably to do this. And I havent seen evidence that shows the assessors view of 
the damage isnt accurate.
Based on this evidence I think Aviva behaved fairly when offering Mr B £54.59, which is the 
assessors costing for the insured part of the claim minus the policy excess. 
I can understand that Mr B was frustrated when he had to chase Aviva for updates and for 
the delay in arranging an inspection. But I think its fair that Aviva offered £100 compensation 
for the delays and poor customer service. So, I wont ask it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman