DRN-2951346
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M have complained about the refusal of a claim under their travel insurance 
policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
Mr B and Ms M took out the single trip insurance policy with Admiral in January 2020, to 
cover a holiday in March/April 2020. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but
essential travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the trip. The airline Mr B and Ms M were 
flying with offered a voucher for the value of the cancelled flight. They were unhappy with 
this, as they said the voucher was only valid until December 2020 and they didnt know when 
theyd be able to use it; and they had paid in cash and so wanted a cash refund. Mr B and 
Ms M therefore made a claim under this policy for the cost of the flights. 
Admiral refused the claim, however, as it said Mr B and Ms M had not suffered any financial 
loss to be covered because they had recovered the cost of the flights in the form of the 
voucher from the airline. 
In the meantime, Mr B and Ms M also made a claim with their credit card provider for the 
value of the flights and received a full refund. However, Mr B and Ms M are still unhappy 
about Admirals refusal of the claim, which they consider to be fundamentally unfair, and 
want a refund of the premium they paid for the policy (i.e. £33.98) as they feel they were 
never really covered.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend it be upheld, as he 
was satisfied Admiral had not acted unfairly in refusing the claim. 
Mr B and Ms M do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines which say that an insurer has 
a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably decline a 
claim. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Mr B and Ms M would have preferred a cash refund and I see some 
force in their argument that they did not pay for the flights using a voucher and so expected 
to be refunded in cash. But the policy only covers costs that are irrecoverable elsewhere. 
The airlines offer of a voucher meant that in effect Mr B and Ms M had recovered the flight 
costs from the airline, in the form of a voucher, and so they had no financial loss to claim. I 
do not therefore think Admiral acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr B and Ms M said it was unreasonable for Admiral to expect them to accept the voucher. I 
dont think the terms of the voucher were so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to expect them to have accepted it. At the time of making its decision on the claim, the 
voucher had around five months left to run. If the voucher had expired without them being 
able to use it and the airline refused to extend it, Mr B and Ms M could have gone back to 
Admiral and asked it to reconsider the claim at that point. Overall, I cant reasonably say the 
voucher had no value for Mr B and Ms M. 
Im satisfied that Admiral didnt act unfairly in declining the claim. Given this, I also see no 
reason why it should refund the premium paid for the policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman