DRN-3467658
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont make any form of refund for a payment made on 
her debit card to a hotel for a five day stay.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs S used her Lloyds debit card to pay for a room only stay at a hotel 
for five nights later that month for her and her husband. The total cost charged to her card 
was just over £690. Mrs S says on arrival she was informed that a number of services of the 
hotel werent available or were significantly limited. She says that as both her and her 
husband suffer from health conditions which mean these limited hotel services have 
significant impact on them and their enjoyment of their stay. So she complained to the hotel, 
but it wouldnt make any refund to them.
So Mrs S complained to Lloyds who looked into the matter but concluded it didnt think it 
could help. This was because it didnt think it could pursue a chargeback further because it 
didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in its view. So it didnt think it could do any 
more for Mrs S.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining Mrs Ss 
request for a refund. Mrs S didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss has described serious health issues for both her and her husband. I also understand 
there has been a recent bereavement to deal with. Im very sorry to hear about all of these 
significant issues and have considered them throughout this decision.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the Hotel, which isnt a financial 
services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit.  I can see from Mrs S representations 
to the Investigator after his assessment that Mrs S is (understandably) focusing on the 
actions of the Hotel. However whatever the issues there maybe with the Hotel and just 
because Mrs S feels shes lost out, it doesnt necessarily follow that Lloyds has treated Mrs 
S unfairly. 
Lloydss role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place as 
this transaction was on Mrs Ss debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Lloyds can only 
be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not Lloyds 
has treated Mrs S fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is an 
important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Mrs S accepts she made this transaction for the hotel stay on the day in question and that 
she did this transaction with the Hotel in question. Ive considered the transaction itself and 
having done so Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mrs S and correctly 
applied to her debit card account with Lloyds. 
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs S 
does here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs S didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Hotel would then receive that chargeback request 
and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, then 
Lloyds should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can 
take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not Lloyds) who will then 
make an independent determination on the matter. So Lloyds isnt solely responsible for the 
decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it can 
fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Lloyds didnt raise a chargeback here. Its position is that any such chargeback didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success, so it didnt raise or pursue a chargeback. So Ive 
considered this decision by Lloyds carefully.
I can see that Mrs S booked a room only booking, which means she didnt pay for any meals 
to be provided by the hotel. So she hasnt lost financially on her booking payment by the fact 
that meals werent available to pay for at extra cost. 
Mrs S says if shed known about the limitations she wouldnt have booked. But the 
Investigator provided website information from the hotel from the time which made clear due 
to the pandemic, services would be altered or reduced. Mrs S hasnt contended this website 
information. Nor has she given detailed information about what she was told prior to booking 
which wasnt true. She just says she wasnt told what services were limited. And at the time 
of booking the pandemic was well known in the UK and as Mrs S refers to it in her 
arguments about the cleaning of the room I dont think she was unaware of the pandemic or 
its impact on society.
Mrs S says she paid for goods and services I did not receive. But this isnt entirely correct. 
She paid for room only and thats what she got. And she hasnt pointed to any part of the 
contract entered into which were broken which makes it fair for Lloyds to pay. It should be 
remembered that hotels should ensure the health and safety of their customers and hotels 
have pointed to these obligations when altering services due to the pandemic. It seems likely 
that had a chargeback been raised the hotel would have defended the service alterations 
due to them being required to meet health and safety obligations and any extra requirements 
enforced upon it at the time by government or other bodies.
Having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited in the 
card scheme rules) Im not persuaded Mrs S has lost out because Lloyds didnt raise a 
chargeback. I say this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success 
considering the situation and the chargeback rules. I can see Lloyds has said it made payments to Mrs S in relation to its customer service. It 
has also made payments in relation to call costs to Mrs S. In the circumstances I think these 
are fair.
So although Mrs S clearly feels the Hotel is at fault here this doesnt necessarily mean that 
Lloyds is liable. In summary this is a decision about what Lloyds is responsible for. The test 
here is did Lloyds consider the Chargeback situation here properly. I think that Mrs S hasnt 
lost out here as I think Lloyds made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any 
further. So I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to refund Mrs S for the hotel stay. So this 
complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman