DRN-4142503
The complaint
Mr J complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) increased his monthly 
minimum credit card payment without his consent and without warning him. He is also 
unhappy with the way it has handled his complaint.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr J took advantage of a 0% interest offer and made a balance transfer of 
£3,000 onto his Barclaycard. The interest free period was due to run until May 2022, after 
which interest on the balance transfer would revert to the standard rate.
In October 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr J and told him it would be putting up the normal 
minimum monthly payment from 2.25% to 3.75%. The change would happen in January 
2022. Barclays has given us evidence of its template letter and that this was sent to Mr J. 
The letter said the change was to help customers pay less interest overall, as it would clear 
the amount owed more quickly. It also said:
If you feel this isnt right for you, you can close your account at any 
timeRemember that if you close your account you wont be able to use your card 
from then on, and youll still have to pay back any outstanding balance that you owe. 
Youll also stay on your current minimum payment calculation until the balance is fully 
paid off  so that could take longer to clear and will cost you more in interest.
Mr J says he didnt receive that letter.
Barclays has told us that it contacted about a million customers in this way. Barclays says 
that this was part of our approach to help customers avoid entering into persistent debt and 
to help them pay off their outstanding balance more quickly and pay less interest. It says 
this was in response to recent regulations and guidance from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) about dealing with customers who were in persistent debt, or appeared in 
danger of it.
In the period before October 2021, Mr J did pay more than his minimum payment in August 
2021, although he had started to use his card for purchases and his overall balance still went 
up that month. And in September 2021 Mr J made two payments in, totalling £98.65, instead 
of the minimum payment of £78.71, and the overall balance went up that month by £523.40. 
In December (after Barclays had made its decision) Mr J did pay off a substantial amount. 
But in all the other months I have seen, which is up until April 2022, the minimum payment 
was made, by direct debit.
Mr J has said he believes Barclays singled him out because he was on the beneficial 0% 
transfer offer.
Mr J is also unhappy that Barclays offer of £25 compensation seemed to be conditional on 
him not pursuing his complaint further.
One of our investigators looked at the facts of the case and said they thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr J didnt agree, and so the matter was passed to me to make a 
decision.
Following further enquiries made on my behalf, Barclays accepted that Mr J doesnt fall 
within the FCA definition of someone in persistent debt, but also says that the persistent 
debt issue has taught us that a lot of customers are not paying enough off of their balance 
when only making the minimum payment and can end up in Persistent Debt.
When I reviewed the complaint, I reached a different view to that of the investigator. And so I 
sent out a provisional decision and invited comment. This is what I said in my provisional 
decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current view is that I should uphold this complaint. I will explain why. The FCA 
defines persistent debt as being:
 where, over a period of 18 months, a customer pays more in interest, fees 
and charges than they have repaid of the principal
Mr J took out his card in February 2021 and, in March, was allowed to make a large 
balance transfer which was interest free until May 2022. Its likely he would have 
taken into account the minimum payment when calculating how he would manage his 
money. But it was only seven months later that Barclays told him it would be 
increasing the monthly payment. This is a long time short of the 18 months period 
envisaged by the FCA as amounting to persistent debt and, during the period, Mr J 
wasnt accruing interest. And someone who has a 0% interest free deal might be 
sensibly prioritising other debts that were interest bearing; or they might be 
prioritising other expenses during the interest free period.
Its also not clear that the terms and conditions, that allow such changes, clearly 
applied in Mr Js situation. Under section 11 Changes to the other terms and 
conditions (not including interest rates) the T&Cs say:
 As well as the changes to interest rates  we may make changes to other terms 
and conditions of this agreement (including fees) for any of the following 
reasons
If we reasonably consider that the change will benefit you or isn't to your 
disadvantage and wouldn't cost you any more
To reflect legal or regulatory requirements that apply to us
My current view is that Barclays gave Mr J a reasonable expectation that the card 
would continue on similar terms for a reasonable time  and probably at least for the 
period of the interest free period. If so, it wasnt fair to go back on that understanding 
unless there was a good reason; and I dont see that Barclays has given a good 
reason in this case.
However, despite this, I dont see that Mr J was materially affected by the change  
although I can see that this would have been frustrating. It would be hard to calculate 
whether Mr J has lost out financially through the change. Although he had to pay 
more in minimum payments, it would mean he had less interest to pay when the interest-free period ended. And he hasnt given me any information to suggest that 
he did lose out like that or in some other way.
I can understand that this will, not surprisingly, have caused Mr J annoyance  he 
wasnt given what he thought he had agreed with Barclays. And Ive said I think 
Barclays was wrong in the decision it made. But dealing with financial services, as 
with other services, doesnt always go smoothly and such mishaps are unfortunately 
part of everyday life. I think the £25 that Barclays has offered is a reasonable amount 
to settle matters.
Ive thought about whether I should require Barclays to reinstate the lower monthly 
minimum payments. But the circumstances of the interest free period have now 
ended. And so it wouldnt necessarily be a breach of the terms and conditions to 
require higher monthly payments, to save Mr J interest in the long term.
Ive also thought about the way Barclays offered Mr J £25 compensation. I dont think 
it was pressurising him to close the complaint in return for the compensation. Its 
reasonable to say it wont pay until everything is agreed as resolved  otherwise, it 
might possibly have to make a second payment if a higher amount is later agreed. 
Waiting until the end is reasonable.
In response, Mr J said he was pleased that I had upheld his complaint. He said he had been 
financially disrupted by the change and had had to find an extra £40 per month just when the 
cost of living was going up. He said he would like Barclays to reconsider the amount of 
compensation because of the difficulties he has experienced through the complaint process; 
what he regards as a lack of transparency; and it taking over a year to get explanations.
Barclays said it wanted to explain further to me its position, on the decision it had taken to 
increase the minimum payment. It said it doesnt believe the action it took was wrong or 
unfair. It said:
Its actions had been intended to help its customers avoid persistent debt.
It hadnt introduced the change for people who had held a Barclaycard for less than 
six months. 
It hadnt singled out Mr J. 
Mr J had been given the option of closing his account and continuing to pay just the 
original minimum balance.
Its communication of the change to Mr J would have been by letter, on the monthly 
statement, and by email. Also, it says it sent Mr J an SMS message on 4 November 
2021 saying:
We recently let you know that your monthly minimum payment is changing. If 
you feel this isn't right for you, you can close your account at any time. To 
avoid the increase, you'd need to do this before 17 January. If you need 
further help with your payment reply 'Yes' and we'll give you a call. Your 
Barclaycard team.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr J and Barclays have said, but Ive decided to confirm my 
provisional decision.
I dont see evidence that Barclays singled out Mr J. I accept that the evidence is that it has 
applied a consistent approach based on specific principles. I know Mr J has wondered if he 
was selected because he was on a 0% interest rate, but I think thats unlikely  its quite 
possible Barclays could have earned more long term, if his debt had not reduced before the 
full interest rate came back in. 
However, I think Mr J would have had a reasonable expectation that his minimum payments 
would not change unless there was a good reason. And I dont see there was that good 
reason in his particular circumstances. The principle of avoiding persistent debt did not 
clearly apply to him at the time  as I said in my provisional decision, a customer could 
reasonably decide to pay only the minimum monthly payment during the interest free period, 
in order to get maximum benefit from the offer. They may have planned their finances 
accordingly. And so there was no real indication at the time that Mr J was in danger of 
persistent debt, and so that wasnt a valid reason to change the terms of his agreement.
Mr J has said he thinks Barclays should offer more compensation. I can see why he says 
this but, for the reasons I gave, I dont think the payment of £25 is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, Barclays should now pay Mr J the £25 it offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay the £25 previously offered to Mr J, if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman