DRN-2838414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy that matured in 2020. They 
are unhappy that they were given an estimate of the maturity value around six weeks before 
maturity, which was more than £3,000 higher than the amount they received. The policy was 
provided by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a traditional with-profits endowment policy in 1995 over a term of 25 
years. 
On 14 April 2020 Aviva sent Mr and Mrs C a maturity pack. This reminded them of the 
forthcoming maturity of their policy, gave them an estimate of what the value might be and 
told them what they needed to do to claim the funds. The estimated maturity value was just 
under £45,500.
On 25 May 2020 the policy matured with a value just over £42,000. Mr and Mrs C 
complained.
Aviva explained how it ensures that all policies receive their fair share of the value of the 
fund when they mature. Given the global effect of the Covid-19 pandemic, causing 
unprecedented falls in investment markets, it reviewed the bonus rates payable on the fund 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy was invested in. This resulted in a reduction in the final bonus paid on 
the policy, but not as great as could have been the case, if not for the smoothing that had 
taken place over the term of the policy. Aviva confirmed that the final bonus rate used when 
estimating the maturity value of the policy was 33%, which had been set at the end of 2019. 
The rate that applied at the time of the policy maturity was 23%. In summary it said that 
there would be times when the maturity value differed from the estimated value sent out with 
the maturity pack due to rates changing between those dates. However, the amount paid out 
on Mr and Mrs Cs policy was correct and so Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C asked further questions and Aviva confirmed that the review of bonus rates 
that was conducted in April 2020 was an ad-hoc review, in addition to the usual mid and end 
of year reviews. This was due to the unprecedented falls in investment markets at the 
beginning of 2020. As such, the With-Profits Committee decided to review the final bonus 
rates to ensure the benefits reflected the then current values of the fund.  The fund had a 
return of -12.4% in the first three months of 2020 and the maturity pack was issued before 
the rates were updated. 
Mr and Mrs C again responded to Aviva and it confirmed that the bonus rate changed on 
29 April 2020. It explained there is always a gap between the date the decision is made to 
change rates and the implementation date, but details of any decisions remain confidential 
until implementation. This approach was explained as Avivas way of ensuring fairness to all 
its policyholders invested in the fund. Aviva confirmed that its decision on the complaint 
remained the same.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service. When they did so they acknowledged that the maturity pack illustration had said that 
the value could go up and down, but they assumed that the maturity value would be quite 
close. They explained that they are concerned that there had been a cut in the terminal 
bonus rates which was known about when the maturity pack was sent or that the rate cut 
wasnt justified, given the status of the fund. They think the later scenario is more likely.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She explained that we could only consider whether Aviva had done something 
wrong in relation to the reduction in the maturity value. She confirmed that the bonus rates 
on Mr and Mrs Cs policy werent guaranteed and the performance of the fund could go up 
and down, which would affect the value of the policy. That was what had happened to 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy  the underlying investment performance meant the value of the fund 
decreased and so the value of their policys share also decreased. She considered what had 
happened, but she wasnt persuaded Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C said that they fully appreciated that investments can go up and down with 
market conditions, but they wouldnt expect such volatility from a with-profits policy that has 
smoothing mechanisms, especially over such a short period of time.
Although our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs further comments, she didnt change 
her view of the complaint.  She gave further explanation of how the fund the policy invested 
in worked and confirmed that poor performance didnt evidence that something had gone 
wrong with the fund management and it wasnt a reason to uphold a complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C asked that an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How the fund in which Mr and Mrs Cs policy invested works has been explained to them 
and they have acknowledged they understand the concepts of investments. However, they 
are unhappy that their policys maturity value, because it was a with-profits arrangement, fell 
in the way it did. I can understand why Mr and Mrs C are disappointed that the value of their 
policy decreased in the last few weeks before maturity.
Aviva explained that market conditions had a negative effect on the fund in early 2020. This 
was a widespread issue at the time that didnt just affect Avivas funds. As has been 
explained previously, smoothing does even out the effects of market fluctuations and periods 
of poorer investment returns. However, it cant insulate a policy completely from all such 
effects, especially toward the end of the term. The factor that affected Mr and Mrs Cs policy 
was the decision about the terminal bonus. To be clear, it is a commercial judgement on the 
part of Aviva whether the fund can afford to pay terminal bonuses, and if so, at what rate. As 
our investigator confirmed, it was the implementation date of that change that mattered and 
Aviva couldnt have provided an estimated maturity value based on the new rate until it was 
implemented.
The fund was managed to try and get the best returns possible. It was in no-ones interests 
for the fund to do badly. In other words, the success of the business and the individual 
managers involved will, to some extent, rely on them investing to get the best possible 
returns. Unfortunately, the simple fact is that the fund value dropped in the period just before 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy was due to mature.While Mr and Mrs Cs maturity value may have been affected by the turbulence in early 2020 
I havent seen any evidence that Aviva did anything wrong or that the value paid was 
incorrect.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman