DRN-2855694
The complaint
Mr P has complained about a personal loan he took out with AvantCredit UK LLC (Avant). 
He says that Avant shouldnt have lent to him as the loan was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
In August 2015, Mr P took out a loan with Avant for £4,500 over a period of 48 months, with 
a monthly repayment of £215.23, the first repayment being due in September 2015. The 
annual percentage rate for the loan was 63.18%. Mr P said Avant shouldnt have given him 
the loan as they hadnt considered his financial situation. He said although he was keeping 
up to date with his payments, he was having to use his overdraft and payday loans to do 
this. He complained to Avant. 
Avant said theyd carried out sufficient checks that showed Mr P had enough disposable 
income each month to cover his monthly payments including the repayment of the new loan.
Mr P wasnt happy with Avants response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Avants checks werent proportionate. But after checking Mr Ps bank 
statements didnt agree that the loan was unaffordable or had been lent irresponsibly. 
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2021 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them 
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. 
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan 
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision 
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice to determine.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: 
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
This means Avant in lending to Mr P are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of 
whether he could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so Avant needed to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr P. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they would 
get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr P himself. 
Checks must also be proportionate considering the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current 
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. So, Ive considered whether Avant in lending to Mr P had been thorough in 
the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding 
to lend to him.
I can see Avant because of the wide ranging salary amounts showing on Mr Ps bank 
statement, used a monthly income of £4,800 taken from a recognised data source. And 
outgoings of £3830 leaving Mr P with a remaining amount of £970 in disposable income. 
Considering the repayment amount for the Avant loan of £215.23, Mr P would still have been 
left with at least £750 available income to spend. So, this would seem to show that the loan 
was affordable for Mr P.
But there may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate 
check should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Avant said Mr Ps bank statement showed a salary for August 2015 of £17,543 and £4878 
paid in July 2015. This would make me question why Mr P needed to borrow £4500 when he 
had just received a salary of £17,543 a few days before. The bank statement Avant saw was 
Mr Ps joint account. And having looked at the statements the account is well run and rarely 
in an overdraft, but there are regular transfers going in and out of the account to other bank 
accounts for both Mr P and his wife.
Avant had also seen from checking Mr Ps credit history that hed two current accounts, and 
it was his other bank account that the loan amount was being paid into. So, while the loan 
appeared affordable on the checks Avant did, I think the payment was being paid into a 
different bank account  Mr Ps sole account. As Ive already explained, Avant was required 
to establish whether Mr P could sustainably make his loan repayments. And as Mr Ps 
indebtedness was over 48 months, I think Avant should have checked Mr Ps sole account.
I have looked at Mr Ps sole account for the three months prior to the loan. The account has 
an overdraft facility of £3,000. I can see Mr P was constantly using his overdraft facility, often 
to its limit, incurring daily overdraft fee charges. I can also see Mr P had a number of payday 
loan commitments, and was making regular gambling transactions, at times in excess of 
£2,500 per month. I think its likely that with better checks Avant would reasonably have 
concluded that Mr P was having serious difficulties managing his finances and that he was 
most likely borrowing as a result of his gambling. Mr P was already using his overdraft limit 
and payday loans and so would also most likely need to continue to borrow elsewhere to 
repay his loan from Avant. I would have expected Avant to realise that it was unlikely that Mr P would be able to sustainably repay his loan over the full loan term. So, it ought reasonably 
to have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
So, while on the surface it looked like Mr P could afford the loan. I think Avant should have 
done more before they lent to him as I think there was some doubt as to whether hed be 
able to maintain the repayments. And this is shown as I can see Mr P has struggled from the 
very first payment  September 2015 to maintain his repayment commitments.
So, I dont think Avant focussed on Mr P as a borrower and his specific circumstances. And I 
think they acted irresponsibly in providing Mr P a loan that incurred a high interest rate as I 
dont think theyd carried out sufficient checks to determine whether Mr P could sustain the 
repayments.
Avant accepted my provisional decision. And Mr P made no further comments for me to 
consider. 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt 
straightforward as Mr P has had the loan in question and hes used the funds. I can also see 
that Mr P settled his account in May 2019. in these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, I ask AvantCredit UK  LLC to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Ps account from when it was opened;
treat any payments that Mr P has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this 
results in Mr P having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra should 
be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr P plus 8% simple interest on this 
amount from date of payment to date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Ps credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit UK  LLC to take off tax from this interest. 
AvantCredit UK  LLC must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if 
he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask AvantCredit UK LLC to put things right for Mr P as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman