DRN-1548685
Complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in 
this decision, rather than any other business. 
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 1997 over the phone, some months after taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, so understandably there isnt still a record of the call 
where the PPI was sold. Mrs M doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think thats 
understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled Mrs M into having PPI. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats what happened here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with the sales process for this policy from the time. And Mrs N had already had her 
store card for a number of months before being sold PPI, so she wouldve known she didnt 
have to take PPI in order to have her store card. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which 
to conclude that AXA misled Mrs M here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively 
standard sales process, gave her a choice, and she chose PPI at the time  though I can 
understand if Mrs M no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs M enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mrs M 
was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top 
of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover, such as for when her sick 
pay reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. And it meant she wouldnt have to ask 
anyone else to pay for her store card if she was off sick or lost her job. So the policy could 
have been useful for Mrs M in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman