DRN-3518447
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) agreed to do to put things right after 
he complained that it irresponsibly provided him with a loan.
Background
While Zopa never agreed with Mr Ms complaint, it eventually agreed to write off the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan. Mr Ms complaint was then considered by one of our 
investigators. And he thought that what Zopa had done to put things right for Mr M was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint as he didnt think that Zopa had 
irresponsibly provided this loan in the first place. Mr M disagreed and so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Zopa has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case.  
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a lender provided a loan which it should have realised was unsustainable, 
wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
paid any further interest and charges on that loan.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
loan. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Zopa 
wrote off a balance after Mr M made very few loan payments. So Zopa wrote off a significant 
portion of the amount it lent to Mr M and on the face of things it looks like Zopa has done 
more than what I would expect a lender to do in these circumstances.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr M believes that Zopa should do more. He thinks its unfair for Zopa to record negative 
information on his credit file. Mr M says that Zopa should remove all negative information 
that it recorded on his credit file. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account that Mr M only repaid a small portion of the 
funds that he was lent in the first place. Zopa then agreed to write Mr Ms outstanding 
balance off, which meant he had the use of a significant amount of funds which hell never 
have to pay back. So removing any adverse information here would require Zopa to record 
that Mr Ms loan was settled in full and on time. And I think that it would be unfair to Zopa 
and Mr M, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if I asked Zopa to amend Mr Ms credit file 
in this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually happened here.
By asking Zopa to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record inaccurate 
information and telling it to record that the loan was paid in full and on time. I think that this 
wholly inaccurate information would make Mr M appear more attractive to prospective 
lenders and increase his chances of being able to access further funds  in circumstances 
where Mr M still says he couldnt afford the payments to this loan in the first place. 
I think that requiring Zopa to amend Mr Ms credit file in this way would be counterproductive 
and arguably not in Mr Ms best interests, or those of any potential lender. So having 
carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr M has told us, Im not going to 
ask Zopa to amend Mr Ms credit file to remove any adverse information. This means that 
Zopa can and should record that a significant proportion of the balance was written off.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Zopa has already offered to do to put things 
right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Zopa Bank Limited has already done 
to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman