DRN-2792489
The complaint
Mr J complains Equifax Limited recorded information incorrectly on his credit file leading to a 
lower score. Hes also unhappy at the service hes received when speaking to Equifax.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr J applied for a loan with another company and was turned down for it. 
He was confused by this, as he understood his overall credit score was very good. So, he 
looked at the information Equifax had recorded for him and said it was wrong  specifically 
the electoral roll information was incorrect. Mr J said hes been in touch with Equifax on the 
phone multiple times to try and get the issues resolved, but each time hes promised a call 
back and doesnt receive one. Additionally, after the issue with the electoral roll was 
resolved, Mr J was unhappy his score hadnt increased like he expected.
Across a number of responses Equifax replied to the points Mr J had made. For the electoral 
roll information, they explained the vast majority of data held by credit reference agencies 
comes from external sources. Equifax said they work closely with all the organisations that 
provide information to ensure its accurate. But their matching system which is designed to 
ensure the data is correct didnt match some of Mr Js details correctly. They said sorry for 
this and paid Mr J £100 compensation. 
For the concerns Mr J had with his credit score Equifax didnt uphold that complaint. They 
said lenders dont view the credit rating section of a report and will only take into account 
what they can see. Equifax added there are no areas affecting Mr Js score, and its 
described as excellent. So it didnt uphold this complaint. But in a separate response, for the 
length of time it took to reply, Equifax said they were upholding his complaint and paid Mr J 
£50 compensation.
Our investigator considered all of this information. Overall, he felt Equifax had accepted 
theyd made errors, but the compensation theyd paid was sufficient for the issues being 
complained about. Our investigator also said ultimately it was down to lenders to decide 
whether to lend or not and theyll use different criteria before deciding whether to do so. 
Because of that, he said he couldnt be certain it was Equifaxs information that led to his 
application being turned down. 
Mr J didnt think this was fair. He said the compensation were for two specific issues, but he 
didnt think it took everything into account. He also said he had to maintain a subscription 
with Equifax to keep an eye on what they were doing  this cost £7-£8 per month and he 
asked for this to be refunded. Mr J also expressed concerns the information was still wrong.
Our investigator reconsidered everything and explained he had taken into account all of 
Mr Js experiences in deciding his outcome, but he still thought the compensation paid was 
fair. He also said he couldnt see Equifax had forced Mr J to take out the subscription, so 
didnt ask Equifax to repay it. And he explained that the credit score is only for individuals to 
see, its not what lenders are given. So, he didnt think thatd have affected the lenders 
decision not to lend to Mr J in December 2019.
Mr J was disappointed our investigator didnt think the subscription fees needed to be 
refunded  so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Equifax have made errors in Mr Js case. From their matching system 
to the delay in replying to one of his queries. In total, theyve paid Mr J £150 for this.
Ive noted Mr Js comments that the £100 for the incorrect information, and £50 for the delay 
in replying to him, are separate issues. And that hes had many phone calls and a significant 
sense of frustration when dealing with Equifax  so these need to be dealt with separately.
I do understand why hed say that, but my role has to be to consider everything thats 
happened and decide if Im satisfied what Equifax have done to put matters right is enough  
and for the reasons Ill go on to explain Im satisfied it is.
Mr J got in touch after hed been turned down for a loan and found incorrect information 
about the electoral roll on his credit file. This is disappointing, but as our investigator 
explained lenders take into account many different factors when deciding whether to lend. 
So, I dont think we could reasonably be confident the reason for the loan being turned down 
was due to this incorrect information. I dont know the specifics of why Mr Js loan was 
turned down, but I understand now it wasnt because of the incorrect information Equifax had 
recorded. 
For the issues Mr J has experienced when trying to get Equifax to look into his score after 
theyd sorted out the electoral roll issue, theyve paid him £50 for one specific instance. I do 
think its disappointing it took them some time to reply to him.
In relation to the delays replying to Mr J about his credit score Equifax said the score is a 
guideline. They added lenders will use their own criteria to decide whether to grant credit or 
not. Because of that, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr J has said he needed to get the subscription to keep an eye on what Equifax are doing. I 
understand why he would say that, given his concerns over their service. But he wasnt 
required to do that  he chose to do so because of the concerns he had. And as Ive 
explained above while Equifax have made some errors, the ones subject to this complaint 
have been corrected. So, I dont think Equifax need to refund the subscription costs Mr J has 
asked us to consider.
Overall then Equifax have paid Mr J £150 compensation. Theres no dispute Equifax have 
made an error, and at times their communication could have been better. But thinking about 
everything thats happened in this case, Im satisfied £150 compensation is a fair way to 
resolve it. I understand from the information Ive been given Mr J has already received this 
money, so I dont require Equifax to do anything further.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman