DRN-3012914
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), didnt tell her in 
2009 about the changes in the way her Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP) would be 
invested. Shes not happy with the offer that Halifax has made to put that right. 
Miss R has also complained about her Individual Savings Account (ISA)  she thinks it was 
mis-sold and wasnt told that any withdrawals she made would have had an impact on its 
performance. Miss R is disappointed with the performance of her investments. 
What happened
Miss R held two products with Halifax, a GIP and an ISA. She complained about the redress 
offered for lack of information she had been given about her GIP and also had concerns 
about the performance of her investments.
Halifax responded to Miss Rs complaint in February 2021. It said:
It agreed that it hadnt informed Miss R in May 2009 about the reduced chances of 
growth in her GIP when the way it was invested changed. To put this right, it offered 
to compare the performance of her GIP from 1 May 2009 to its closure in 2013 
against a deposit account because it said if it had contacted her sooner, Miss R 
might have been able to take action to move her money to a savings account. The 
offer totaled £694.45.
It didnt agree it had mis-sold the ISA to Miss R in 2002 when she invested £500 as it 
hadnt given her any advice to her to invest. 
Miss R did receive advice in 2004 for the first time, and later in 2006, 2007 and 2009. 
It couldnt see any reason why Miss R could not consider investing at those times.
In 2004  the first time Halifax gave advice  Miss R had already held investments for 
three years so had some prior investment experience. Its recommended investments 
of a cautious/medium (low) level of risk were suitable for her personal and financial 
circumstances. 
Halifax said the investments were affordable and sustainable 
- In 2004 Miss R invested 27% of her investable assets into a GIP and 7% into the 
ISA, totaling 34%. She had £15,500 left on deposit and the GIP had the added 
protection of limited capital guarantees. This was a suitable size for her 
circumstances and experience.
- Miss R invested £150 per month into her ISA in 2004 which was increased to 
£250 in 2006, £333.33 in 2007 and £599.33 in 2009. She had sufficient 
disposable income. All recommendations were affordable and sustainable. 
Miss R made withdrawals from her ISA in 2005, 2008 and 2009. She said she 
wasnt advised this would affect her investment. But Halifax said this was her 
choice and all financial review letters indicated the ISA was a medium to long 
term investment. 
- Miss R wasnt happy with the performance of the investments and said she could 
have received better returns elsewhere. But Halifax said products between 
different providers couldnt be compared and the Miss R would have understood 
there was an element of risk involved in investing.
Miss R didnt agree with Halifax so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought the offer Halifax had made was fair 
and didnt uphold it any further than Halifax had already done. They said:
On the balance of probabilities, Halifax didnt give advice in 2002. It was more likely 
that Miss R invested of her own volition into the ISA at the outset. The information 
provided to Miss R by Halifax  the key features and plan conditions  suggested 
there wasnt any evidence the ISA had been mis-sold. 
The financial review letters indicated the investment term for ISAs was medium to 
long term  at least five years  and the key features and plan conditions highlighted 
that returns would depend upon withdrawals. Halifax wouldnt have questioned 
Miss Rs right to withdraw, so the investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong.
Halifax didnt tell Miss R of changes to the nature of the GIP in 2009 and that its 
growth prospects would be limited. So, Miss R was unable to make an informed 
decision about whether to move her money. The investigator thought that Halifaxs 
offer, without knowing exactly what Miss R would have done had she been informed 
of this, seemed fair. 
Because Miss R said she could get better returns on her investments elsewhere 
didnt mean that Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The 2002 ISA investment
Halifax has given us a copy of a letter it sent to Miss R in February 2002. It confirmed 
Miss Rs ISA application and investment. It went onto say No advice has been given on the 
suitability of this investment, as this Trust is designed for investors, like yourself, who are 
happy to make their own informed decision. 
Halifax has told us this was a Direct Offer sale and that no advice was given at the point of 
sale. So, it would have been for Miss R to decide if she wanted to invest. And from the 
information and evidence available, Im satisfied that Miss R did make her own decision to 
invest and that Halifax did not provide advice on that occasion.
But Halifax had to ensure Miss R was given sufficient information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, in order for her to make a fully informed investment decision.
I cant know for sure what information Miss R was provided with, but I think its likely she 
would have been given a copy of the ISA key features and plan conditions. And after reviewing that document Im satisfied it, amongst other things, gave an indication of the 
aims, the risks involved and what the investor might get back. In my view the information 
given was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Overall, with regard to the 2002 ISA investment, I think it was Miss Rs own decision to 
invest in the ISA, without any advice from Halifax. And I think it most likely Miss R would 
have seen the key features and plan conditions so would have been provided with sufficient 
information to make her own informed investment decision. 
The GIP and ISA  2004
Miss R hasnt complained about the advice to invest into the GIP, but I include it here for a 
complete understanding of her circumstances at the time of the investment advice.
Halifax has provided a copy of both the Customer Information and Financial Report from 
June 2004 which it told us was the first time it gave advice. At that time, it was recorded:
Miss R was aged 45 and had a preferred retirement age of 60.
Miss R was employed and had a mortgage on a property.
Miss R had a total of £27,500 on deposit and had funded £2,000 into a cash ISA in 
the current tax year. She held £6,070 in an ISA and had held it for three years. She 
had shares valued at £1,000 again which she had held for three years. Her aspiration 
was recorded as being to achieve better returns from her savings and her need area 
was identified as regular savings/capital investment. Her attitude to risk summary for 
both was recorded as being cautious/medium and the investment term was for five 
years or more. 
For Miss Rs regular savings requirement, it was recommended she invest £150 a 
month in the ISA Investor, a mini ISA. The cautious/medium portfolio to be invested 
in offered the potential for long-term growth and was constituted of 50% corporate 
bonds, 20% UK FTSE All Share Index Tracking, 15% UK growth and 15% UK equity.
For the capital investment Miss R wanted to invest £7,000 for five years but wanted 
an element of guarantee with £5,500 of the funds. 
So, £5,500 was to be invested into the GIP which was a life assurance plan that 
provided a conditional guarantee applied on the guarantee end date or on the 
payment of death benefit during the guaranteed period. The GIP aimed to provide a 
mix of equities, gilts and fixed interest investments for long-term growth. The plan 
was to start on 1 September 2004 and end on 1 September 2009. 
The remaining £1,500 of the capital for investment was to be invested into a mini 
ISA, the ISA Investor, again into the cautious/medium portfolio. 
As identified in the Financial Report, Miss R had already held pooled investments and single 
company shares for three years by the time she received advice from Halifax. This would 
suggest that Miss R was comfortable with investing and had sufficient investment experience 
and knowledge to understand the investment risks involved.   
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Halifaxs assessment of Miss R as being an investor with a 
cautious/medium attitude to risk wasnt unreasonable taking into account her then current 
personal and financial circumstances as well as her identified financial aspirations. 
Subsequent additions to Miss Rs ISA investment
Miss R received further financial advice from Halifax in 2006, 2007 and 2009 and Ive seen a 
copy of the Financial Report for each. As a result, her regular monthly savings into her ISA 
were increased to £250 in 2006, £333.33 in 2007 and £599.33 in 2009. In each case, the recommendation was for the cautious managed fund. And after reviewing the Financial 
Reports for each year advice was given, Miss Rs excess income over her committed 
monthly expenditure was recorded and theres nothing to make me think that in each case 
the additions to her monthly ISA contributions were unaffordable. 
Performance of investments
Understandably Miss R is disappointed her investments didnt perform as well as she would 
have hoped. But it doesnt mean the investment recommendations were wrong or that they 
can be measured against returns from other investment opportunities Miss R could have 
taken. 
Its not the role of this service to assess whether or not an investments performance was 
reasonable or otherwise and whether a business ought to have delivered a better return. Our 
role is broadly limited to assessing whether a business provided investment advice that was 
suitable for a customers identified needs and attitude to risk after taking into account the 
personal and financial circumstances of that customer. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that Halifax was wrong to make the 
recommendations that it did, and Im satisfied the investments werent unsuitable for       
Miss Rs needs and her cautious/medium attitude to risk at the times she invested. So, I 
cant conclude the advice she was given was wrong.
Withdrawals from the ISA
Miss R has complained that she wasnt told that any withdrawals from her ISA would impact 
on its performance. Halifax has told us Miss R withdrew funds in 2005, 2008 and 2009. 
However, I am satisfied that Miss R should have reasonably been aware of the implications 
of her taking any withdrawals from her ISA. 
I say this because the financial reports all highlighted that the investment recommendations 
were for five years plus. And the ISA key features and plan conditions say, under the section 
Can I take money out? You can take money out  but it will reduce the value of your ISA. 
So, I dont agree that Miss R wasnt sufficiently made aware of the impact withdrawals could 
have had on her ISA performance.
Is Halifaxs offer for the lack of information about the GIP a fair one?
Halifax has accepted that it didnt inform Miss R of changes to the way the GIP was to be 
invested in May 2009. It said those changes meant there was little possibility of growth. To 
put that right Halifax has offered £694.45 which takes account of the value of the GIP on 
1 May 2009 and the amount Miss R received when it closed in 2013 compared to the return 
she could have received on a deposit account. 
Miss R thinks this offer should be higher. 
It cant be known exactly what Miss R would have done if she had been given information      
about the changes for the growth prospects of the GIP as she should have done in 2009. 
The growth prospects for the GIP were limited as a result of those changes. So, I dont find 
Halifaxs offer to measure the GIPs performance between May 2009 and its closure in 2013 
against deposit account returns to be unreasonable. I am able to consider alternative benchmarks for redress, but Im persuaded that the 
comparison is fair here given deposit accounts would have given Miss R the security she 
wanted for her money. I appreciate Miss R would like more compensation but increasing this 
would mean wed have to look to a redress benchmark that carried a higher level of risk, and 
from what I know about Miss R, that wouldnt be appropriate. In the circumstances, and in 
the absence of knowing exactly what Miss R would actually have done, I think the 
comparison is a fair and reasonable one. 
In conclusion, 
I think Miss R made her own decision about the initial ISA investment in 2002. 
The investment recommendations made after that were suitable for Miss R 
considering her financial and personal circumstances and investment needs. 
I think Miss R was sufficiently made aware of the impact that any withdrawals from 
her ISA would have. 
And the offer made by Halifax about the lack of information Miss R was given about 
the changes to her GIP in 2009 is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint. It is now for Miss R to 
decide whether to accept the offer already made by the Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman