DRN-3210994
The complaint
Mr D complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has recorded a late payment marker 
on his credit file for a direct debit payment it didnt collect. He also complains that he wasnt 
told about the problem.
What happened
Mr D says PayPal didnt collect a direct debit payment in April and May 2021 and later 
recorded a late payment marker on his credit file. He says PayPal didnt tell him about the 
problem and says there was money in his account so there shouldnt have been a problem. 
Mr D would like the adverse information removed from his credit file.
PayPal says Mr D was required to make agreed payments but he didnt do so and so it 
correctly told him, as well as recording correct information on his credit file. It says it sent e-
mails to Mr D that are confirmed on its systems as being delivered about the direct debit 
problems. PayPal says there were four other occasions in 2020 that direct debit payments 
failed and that Mr D then made payments out of a different bank account. It says it isnt 
responsible for the direct debit problems that Mr D ought to have been aware of.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator asked Mr D for a copy of his credit file. 
The investigator thought the payments had been missed, Mr D told that by PayPal and that 
Mr D ought to have been aware there was a problem based on the four other failed direct 
debits.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and says he carried out an account switch. He says his new 
bank accepts it made a mistake by not transferring his PayPal direct debit. He also says he 
received a number of e-mails from PayPal about the missed payments some months later. 
Mr D says he didnt receive them at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at PayPals records and I am satisfied that there were a number of problems 
with the direct debit. I can see that there were four missed payments in the later part of 2020 
that led to Mr D making payments out of a different bank account. So, I think Mr D ought to 
have been aware there was a problem in 2020 and ought to have continued to have checked 
and monitored the payments to make sure they were made. Im satisfied that it was Mr Ds 
responsibility to make those payments and I cant fairly hold PayPal responsible for the 
problems.
I appreciate Mr Ds new bank accepts it made a mistake. But that doesnt mean PayPal 
made a mistake or could reasonably have known there was a problem. Im satisfied that 
PayPal must have made Mr D aware of the issue in 2020 as Mr D made required manual 
payments. I have looked carefully at PayPals records and Im satisfied that it sent Mr D e-
mails in April 2021 and May 2021 telling him again that the direct debit had failed. I 
appreciate Mr D says he didnt receive those e-mails, but Im satisfied they were sent and 
are shown as delivered. I have also made clear that in these circumstances Mr D ought to 
have been aware of the potential problems and made sure payments were made.
Im satisfied PayPal is under a regulatory duty to report the accurate position of its 
customers accounts to the Credit Reference Agencies which I think it did here. I have made 
clear that I dont think PayPal has made a mistake and I cant fairly hold it responsible for the 
direct debit problems. I would have liked to have seen Mr Ds credit file to check the position 
about possible reasons for the direct debit failure but that hasnt been provided. No doubt Mr 
D will speak to his new bank about the possibility of it adding a note to Mr Ds credit file 
about this issue but I cant fairly order PayPal to remove any information from Mr Ds credit 
file that I find was correctly reported. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman