DRN-2951764
The complaint
Miss S complains that TSB Bank plc irresponsibly provided her with a loan. 
What happened
Miss S says that during the first lockdown TSB called her to check her finances and she 
ended up with a loan she couldnt afford. She says she has used her overdraft and credit 
cards to make repayments putting her in worse debt than she was previously. She says if 
TSB hadnt called her she wouldnt be in the position she now is.
TSB says that on 11 May 2020, it contacted Miss S about a possible refinance loan. It says 
at the time, Miss S had an existing TSB loan, was overdrawn and had a TSB credit card. It 
says Miss S also advised it she had another credit card. It says it was able to offer her a loan 
with an APR of 16.9% which was lower than the rate she was paying on her existing debts. It 
says that Miss S monthly repayments on the new loan would be lower than her monthly 
repayments had been even including an additional £1,100 which Miss S wished to borrow for 
home furnishings. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the checks carried out by TSB 
before the loan was provided were proportionate. He reviewed the information in Miss S 
credit file and bank statements from the time and didnt think these suggested Miss S was in 
financial difficulty. He didnt think that TSB had done anything wrong by providing the loan 
and considering the interest rates said the loan put Miss S in a better position. 
Miss S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that TSB shouldnt have contacted 
her to offer a loan. She said that she had previously made an online application for a loan 
which had been rejected and that she told TSB this on the phone call however she was still 
provided with a loan. She said she was told the loan was the lowest interest rate TSB could 
offer. She struggled to make repayments and when she told TSB she was struggling it re-
financed the loan on a lower interest rate which she says should have been the rate she was 
offered in the first place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Miss S has experienced and I can understand 
that she feels that TSBs contact in May 2020 meant she took on further borrowing she 
couldnt afford. However, for me to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
TSB didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending or, that based on 
the information available to it at the time of lending, it was irresponsible to provide the laon.
I have looked through the information provided and can see that Miss S was contacted in 
May 2020 about the opportunity to refinance her debts. I appreciate the comments Miss S 
has made about this call, but I do not find it unreasonable that TSB made contact and had 
Miss S not being interested then she could have said that. I note Miss S comments about 
having been previously declined online for a TSB loan and explaining this on the call, 
however TSB has said that it has no record of Miss B being declined for a loan before the 
May 2020 loan. Unfortunately, the recording of the call isnt available and so I have relied on 
Miss S testimony, the contact notes from the call and the other information available such as 
Miss S bank statements and credit information.
When Miss S was contacted In May 2020, she had an existing loan with TSB, an overdraft 
and a credit card. She also noted a further credit card. The total amount outstanding on 
these was recorded as just under £6,500. She also wated to borrow extra money for home 
furnishings, resulting a total new loan amount of around £7,600. The interest rate on the new 
loan was lower than the interest rates she had on her existing debts but as the new loan was 
for a larger amount and repayable over four years, it would be reasonable to check to ensure 
the repayments were affordable for Miss S.
Information about Miss S monthly income was gathered, and this was around £1,380. 
Miss S says on the call she has moved in with a partner and is paying £264 towards board. 
TSB hasnt been able to provide details from its credit check and so I have looked at the 
information Miss S has provided. This provides limited information from the time of the loan 
but does show that Miss S had been maintaining her payments on her accounts through 
2019 and 2020. Based on this I do not find I have enough to say that there were signs of 
financial difficulty that meant further checks should have taken place. Based on this I think 
the checks carried out were proportionate. 
However, just because proportionate checks took place it doesnt necessarily mean the 
lending was responsible and so I have considered the information available to TSB to see 
whether this raises concerns. Miss S bank statements for the months leading up to the loan 
confirm her monthly income and the payment of £264 and then show limited other committed 
expenditure. Therefore, as I think the checks were reasonable and as these didnt raise 
concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find that I can say TSB acted 
irresponsibly in this case. 
On the call discussing the loan, Miss S said she would reduce her overdraft the following 
month and pay off her other credit card. The loan was used to repay the previously existing 
TSB loan, repay the overdraft and Miss S credit cards. Given the new loan had a lower 
interest rate than her previous debts this should have put Miss S in a better position going 
forward. 
I understand that Miss S then increased her use of her overdraft and credit cards. She has 
also raised concerns about the interest rate she was given. However, the loan agreement 
set out the details of the loan including the interest rate and had Miss S not wished to go 
ahead she could have said that. The loan also set out the 14 day withdrawal period so had 
Miss S decided after agreeing to the loan that she no longer wanted this she could have 
taken action at that time. 
While I can understand why Miss S is upset at the situation she is in, as the loan provided in 
May 2020 was affordable based on the checks carried out and was initially used to repay 
other existing debts I do not find I can uphold this complaint. However, given Miss S has 
explained her situation, we would now expect TSB to treat her positively and sympathetically 
and to work with her regarding her outstanding balance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman