DRN-2743423
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out home improvement loans in connection with their mortgage in 1989 
and 1992. Both times, they took out PPI policies to protect their monthly loan repayments. 
The sale of PPI policy in 1989 was originally included in this complaint. But Mr and Mrs W 
have accepted an offer from Santander to settle that part of the complaint. So Ill confine my 
decision to the complaint about the PPI sale in 1992.
Mr and Mrs W applied for the loan and PPI at a meeting in a branch of the bank. They paid 
a monthly amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with the adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs W and to Santander on 25 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
There has been some confusion about who the policy covered. Santander originally said 
it couldnt find any trace of PPI on the account. It then said there was PPI, but it wasnt in 
Mrs Ws name. But it subsequently said the PPI taken out in 1992 was, in fact, in 
Mrs Ws sole name. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide copies of all the paperwork Mr and Mrs W signed 
when they took out the loan and PPI. I didnt think that was surprising or unreasonable, 
given that how long ago the sale took place. In situations like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely, based on the 
evidence I have.
Id seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws application for the loan. It includes a section on PPI, 
headed Redundancy, Accident and Sickness Protection. There are boxes to tick to take 
the cover. The boxes are marked First Applicant, Second Applicant and Self 
employed (Accident & Sickness only). Theres a tick in the Second Applicant box. The 
second applicant in this case was Mrs W. But theres also a tick in the Self-employed 
(Accident & Sickness only) box. Mr W was self-employed when Mr and Mrs W took out 
the loan, but Mrs W was employed. So on the face of it, this was inconsistent with the 
policy being in Mrs Ws name.
It appeared from Santanders records that the PPI was a single policy  in other words, it 
was in either Mrs Ws name or Mr Ws name, but not both. And it covered accident and 
sickness only. Taking everything into account, based on the evidence Id seen so far, 
I didnt think it was fully clear whether the policy covered Mrs W or Mr W. But for the 
reasons Ive set out below, this didnt affect my decision.
I thought it was clear from the application form that Mr and Mrs W had a choice about 
whether to take the PPI. And based on what we know of the way that Santander sold 
these policies at the time, the applicant would have needed to complete a separate 
application form for the PPI. Overall, I was satisfied that it would have been clear to 
Mr and Mrs W that the policy was optional. And I thought they decided to take the cover, 
knowing that they had a choice.
Santanders confirmed that it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. This 
means it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it didnt look as if 
it was unsuitable, based on what Id seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mrs Ws told us shed have been entitled to 12 months sick pay from her employer. 
Based on what we know about sick pay entitlement in Mrs Ws line of work, I thought it 
was likely this would have been made up of six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay. Mr W was self-employed, but Mrs Ws told us hed have been entitled to sick 
pay. But the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months per successful claim. Whats 
more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay the policyholder was entitled to. 
So they could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
So taking everything into account, I thought the PPI could have been useful for Mr and 
Mrs W. And while Mrs Ws mentioned that they had some limited savings, Id borne in 
mind that theyd chosen to protect those, rather than taking out a smaller loan. And 
having the PPI would have meant that they didnt need to use their savings to make their 
loan repayments.
It may be that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Id explained that I thought they chose to take the 
cover, knowing that it was optional. Weve seen some policies where it would have been 
harder for a self-employed person to make a successful claim. But based on the nearest 
available policy documents to the date of sale, I was satisfied that that wasnt the case 
here. So if the policy was, in fact, in Mr Ws name, I was satisfied that it wouldnt have 
been more difficult for him to claim successfully than it would have been for an employed 
policyholder. And based on what Id seen of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, 
they didnt appear to have been affected by any of the other main things the policy didnt 
cover.
The policy was competitively priced, and Id seen nothing to make me think Mr and 
Mrs W couldnt afford it when they took it out. And as they were paying for the cover 
monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if theyd decided they no longer wanted 
it.
So I thought the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, regardless of which of them it 
covered. And I wasnt convinced theyd have made a different decision about taking the 
cover even if Santander had given them better information about it.Id considered all Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including what Mrs W had said about time 
limits for claiming. Shed suggested that by the time she stopped receiving sick pay from 
her employer, it would have been too late to claim under the policy. But as Id explained 
above, the policy would have paid out in addition to - and at the same time as - any sick 
pay the policyholder was entitled to. The policyholder wouldnt have had to wait until they 
stopped receiving sick pay before claiming. So they could have used their sick pay to 
meet other day- to-day expenses.
Finally, Mr and Mrs W have mentioned that Mr W made an unsuccessful sickness claim 
on claim. I hadnt considered any claim on the policy in my decision, which related purely 
to the sale of the PPI in 1992.
So based on everything Id seen so far, I wasnt planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Further submissions
Both parties have accepted the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. Having done so, I cant see any 
reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman