DRN-3365232
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that The New India Assurance Company 
Limited unfairly avoided (cancelled as if it never existed) its policy. 
Mr S and Mr L, who are directors of W, bring the complaint on Ws behalf. For ease of 
reading, Ive referred only to Mr S throughout.
What happened
W is a waste management company. It had an insurance policy that was underwritten by 
New India, for its premises. This was taken out through a broker and renewed in February 
2020.
In May 2020 there was a fire at the premises that caused significant damage and Mr S made 
a claim on Ws policy.
The claim was subsequently declined and New India said it was avoiding Ws policy. It said 
Mr S hadnt made a fair presentation of its risk when the policy was taken out, in relation to a 
number of policy conditions. And it said it wouldnt have offered the policy if it had been 
given accurate information at inception and renewal.
The areas it said breaches had occurred were as follows:
There was unacceptable and high-risk storage externally and internally.
W had unacceptable and high risk shut down procedures.
There was an existing and established failure to maintain and keep adequately clean 
the plant.
Mr S disputed this position and New India subsequently said it may consider a without 
prejudice offer for a settlement. However it later withdrew this and in December 2020 it 
wrote to Mr S to confirm that its final position was that the policy would be avoided.
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained to New India. It didnt uphold the complaint, so 
he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied that New India had done enough to prove the breaches of policy 
conditions and had shown that it wouldnt have offered the policy to W if Mr S had made a 
fair presentation of the risk when it was taken out. He said that New India has therefore 
acted in line with the Insurance Act 2015, which is the relevant law. And he was therefore 
satisfied it had acted fairly by avoiding the policy.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
When the case came to me, I wrote to each side to explain my provisional findings. These 
were as follows:
When looking at a complaint where the insurer has alleged a misrepresentation has been 
made, I need to take regard of the relevant law. As this relates to a commercial policy, the 
relevant law would be the Insurance Act 2015. This requires a commercial customer to make 
a fair presentation of the risk when taking out and renewing a policy. This means disclosing:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
New India has mentioned a number of different reasons why it felt W hadnt given a fair 
presentation of the risk. And had breached policy conditions. However to say it acted fairly 
by avoiding the policy, I just need to be satisfied that W didnt present the risk fairly and if it 
had New India wouldnt have offered a policy at all. Under the insurance Act, this is called a 
qualifying misrepresentation. This means I dont need to consider every issue New India has 
raised, if Im satisfied there has been a qualifying misrepresentation with just one of the 
areas mentioned.
So here, Ive focussed on the issue of internal waste storage. As Mr S has admitted that this 
was something they were unable to comply with. I therefore need to consider if a 
misrepresentation was made and if this would amount to a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The policy states as follows:
Internal Loose Waste Storage
You must:
(a) not store loose waste within any one Building or under any one canopy unless retained in
a concrete bay out of business hours;
(b) ensure the retaining walls of any storage bay excess the height of the store materials it
contains by at least 50 centimetres;
Where Building is used in any General Policy Condition it relates solely to permanent
structures at the Premises and (d), (e), (f) (g) and (h) as described in the Definitions of this
Policy.
Breach of this condition will only invalidate claims in respect of Damage by fire to property
insured at the Premises at which the breach of the Condition has occurred.
Subject otherwise to the terms and conditions of this Policy.
Mr S has said, due to the layout of the premises they arent able to store waste other than 
internally, so accepts that this is a breach of this policy condition. However Mr S has said 
that New India has inspected the premises before every renewal and would have seen the 
waste was kept internally and not in concrete bays as required. Hes said this fulfils their 
obligation under the second bullet point above  that they provided enough information to 
put the insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries. 
Ive considered this but I dont agree Mr S, or W, has met their obligations under the act. The 
inspections happened during work hours, so while the person carrying out the report would 
see the waste around the machines during the day, this doesnt mean theyd know this was 
stored internally overnight. Further, the condition has always been in the policy since 
inception and Mr S would have known that they would never be able to meet this policy 
condition. So by agreeing to the condition  at inception and renewal  I agree W hasnt 
made a fair presentation of the risk. And I dont think its enough to say that New India had 
enough information to put them on notice just because of the inspections it carried out.
New India has said that the storage of internal waste is considered a high risk factor and the 
policy condition is something they require in order to offer a policy for a waste and recycling centre at all. I am therefore satisfied that a qualifying misrepresentation has taken place in 
relation to the internal storage of waste and therefore, under the insurance act, New India 
can avoid Ws policy.
Under the act, an insurer also needs to consider whether the misrepresentation was reckless 
or deliberate or just careless. If it is considered careless then the insurer should refund the 
policy premiums paid. Here the policy premiums havent been refunded so I need to 
consider whether its fair to say the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
Ive seen that Mr S was aware that they wouldnt be able to meet the requirements of the 
policy. And he didnt raise or question this when taking out or renewing the policy. Im 
therefore satisfied that this would fairly be a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation so I 
wont ask New India to refund the policy premiums. 
Finally, I understand Mr S frustrations at New India for saying it would consider an offer from 
them and then withdrawing this. And for the amount of time it took concluding the claim. 
However I dont think the impact of these actions were such that it would warrant asking New 
India to pay compensation, particularly as I have concluded it hasnt acted unfairly by 
avoiding the policy.
Response to my provisional findings
New India responded to accept my provisional findings.
However Mr S didnt agree with my findings. He said that his broker had only drawn his 
attention to the internal storage condition in May 2020, and at that point it was too late to 
make the necessary changes. He also said he hadnt been given access to the reports that 
New India based its decision on. And he didnt think it was fair that it gave them the 
opportunity to make an offer and then withdrew this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the policy condition not being made clear, however 
this doesnt change my position. The complaint I am reviewing is about New India  the 
underwriter of the policy. So Im only considering its actions and deciding if it acted fairly. Mr 
S comments about the information not being drawn to his attention relate to his broker. The 
policy condition was contained in the policy documents and policy information which were 
sent to Mr S at inception. If Mr S feels the broker should have made this clearer to him 
earlier, then he should raise this with the broker directly.
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about New India asking him to make an offer then 
withdrawing this option. I agree this would have been frustrating and caused Mr S some 
distress as it led him to believe that they could come to a compromise on a settlement. 
However as I think its reasonable that New India avoided Ws policy, I therefore dont think it 
needed to reach a compromise on the settlement. So I dont think it acted unfairly by 
withdrawing this offer. 
Finally Mr S has said he doesnt think its fair that New India has declined to share the 
reports it relied on with them. Reports from insurers appointed experts are commissioned to 
inform the insurer and will usually contain commercially sensitive information. It therefore 
isnt unusual that insurers wont share full reports with their customers. I therefore dont think 
this is unreasonable. Nor do I think that Mr S seeing the reports would have any bearing on the outcome of the claim or complaint.
Based on this, I see no reason to depart from the decision outlined in my provisional 
findings. I therefore find that New India hasnt acted unfairly and wont ask it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr L, on 
behalf of W, to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman