DRN-2857736
The complaint
Mr B complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) who deemed his boiler 
beyond economic repair, following a claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted RSA for the annual service of his boiler. It sent an engineer who after 
inspecting the boiler, deemed it beyond economic repair (BER). Mr B wasnt informed soon 
afterwards, that his boiler had been BER.  
Mr B said that the fault with his boiler was due to a water leak. He said that an engineer had 
said in 2019 that there were signs of a leak and had he been told at the time, he wouldve 
been able to monitor the leak and hopefully prevent any damage. So, he felt that RSAs 
engineer had been negligent.
Mr B complained to RSA. In its final response, it said that its engineer wasnt negligent as 
when he inspected the boiler there were signs of a leak (water marks) but not an actual 
visible leak, so there was nothing that the engineer wouldve told Mr B. Also, that Mr B didnt 
report a leak until over a year later. 
RSA concluded that there had been delay when it eventually told Mr B that his boiler was 
BER. For the poor customer service, it offered £100 compensation.  Mr B was unhappy with 
this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She concluded that 
RSA didnt need to take any action. She said that she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say that had RSA informed him about the leak, the boiler would still be working.  
So, she wouldnt be asking RSA to do anything else to resolve the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with her view. He maintained his opinion, that had the engineer told him of 
the leak, he wouldve monitored it, and this wouldve prevented it becoming BER. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
My role is to examine whether RSA has acted fairly and reasonably. In doing so Ive looked 
at the policy terms, circumstances and industry guidelines. The main issue here is whether 
the engineer shouldve told Mr B about the leak and whether this wouldve prevented his 
boiler being deemed BER.
Mr R said that he would like RSA to pay for the new boiler that he had to install and to pay 
compensation for the lack of heating and hot water he experienced. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and schedule and it states that cover doesnt extend to a 
boiler replacement. From the notes of the engineer who attended to carry out the annual 
service, he saw that there was a sign of a previous leak, but there was no active leak. 
Following on from the annual service, Mr B had to call RSA, as his boiler had developed 
another fault. The engineer carried out a temporary repair but, on that occasion, no leak was 
found. A few months later Mr B called RSA again as his boiler was leaking and suffered 
another fault. On that occasion RSA deemed his boiler BER. Having reviewed the engineers 
notes there were several parts required to repair the boiler and given the cost involved, RSA 
said the boiler was BER.
Therefore, the only expert evidence that provides a report of an actual leak, was when the 
engineer deemed the boiler BER and not before. In addition, Mr Bs boiler was over 12 years 
of age and was likely to be at a stage where it developed more faults. Which I think is borne 
out by the evidence of the increased call outs for the various faults. So, Im not persuaded 
that RSA ought to have told Mr B about a leak earlier, as from the evidence, there were no 
active leaks before the boiler was classed as BER. So, I cant agree with Mr B that RSA 
were negligent.
RSA has admitted that there was some delay in telling Mr B that his boiler was BER. For its 
poor customer service, it paid Mr B £100, for the trouble and upset it caused. I have 
considered whether this is fair, and I think it is, as it acknowledges the delay. I also think the 
compensation RSA paid, is reasonable and in line with what I would have suggested, had it 
not already been offered.
Overall, I dont think there is enough evidence to support Mr Bs complaint that RSA was 
negligent. I think that the £100 paid for the delay was fair in the circumstances and I wont be 
asking RSA to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC has already paid £100 for 
the trouble and upset it caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman