DRN-4184407
The complaint
Miss L complains that One Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance
policy.
What happened
Miss L had a sports utility vehicle. For the year from late August 2021, Miss L had the car 
insured on a comprehensive policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary or 
broker. The policy schedule said that she had 9 years no-claims discount (NCD).
One Insurance was responsible for dealing with any claim. Any claim for accidental damage
(except to a windscreen) was subject to a policy excess of £250.00.
Unfortunately, in mid-June 2022, Miss L reported that the driver of a police van had reversed
into her car and admitted responsibility for causing damage to it. A police sergeant had
attended and given her an email address and an incident number.
One Insurance treated the claim as a fault claim against Miss Ls policy.
From early July 2022, One Insurance arranged repair and a courtesy car for Miss L. She
paid the policy excess of £250.00. In mid-July 2022, she got her car back after repair.
In late July 2022, Miss L complained to One Insurance about delay in contacting the police
to seek an admission of liability and so recover its outlay and her excess.
From mid-August 2022, One Insurance started to send emails to the police.
By a final response dated late August 2022, One Insurance accepted that it had failed to
actively pursue the police for information. It apologised for any distress and inconvenience
this caused and offered £150.00 compensation. One Insurance asked for Miss Ls bank
details, but she didnt accept the offer.
From late August 2022, the policy with One Insurance expired and Miss L didnt renew it.
Miss L brought her complaint to us in early November 2022.
our investigators opinion
At first, our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt
think that One Insurance had acted unfairly. She said that One Insurance made a mistake
and offered appropriate compensation for this.
Miss L disagreed with the investigators initial opinion. In December 2022 she contacted the
police and in late January 2023, she obtained the registration number of the police van and
the police crash report number. Our investigator told One Insurance that information.
By an email in early March 2023, the police told Miss L that One Insurance was not using the
correct channels. Our investigator changed her view. She recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld in part. She thought that One insurance hadnt handled this claim well, and 
continued to cause Miss L distress and inconvenience. The investigator said that Miss L had 
gone to more than a reasonable effort to provide the correct information to One Insurance 
who hadnt acted upon it.
The investigator recommended that One Insurance should:
1. compensate Miss L £250.00; and
2.1 contact the assistant police force solicitor on the email provided, to progress the 
claim to establish and agree fault and potential recovery of costs including Miss Ls 
policy excess.
2.2 provide evidence of this to Miss L and the investigator.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss L 
and to One Insurance on 18 May 2023. I summarise my findings:
I didnt consider that the rules allowed me to uphold a complaint about events that 
happened after the complaint as it stood between late July and late August 2022  or 
to direct One Insurance how to respond. 
Rather, Id thought about the impact on Miss L of the shortcomings Id found in One
Insurances service before she complained in late July 2022. I didnt underestimate 
that impact. However, I considered that One Insurances offer of £150.00 was fair 
and reasonable compensation in line with our usual approach to distress and 
inconvenience. 
Subject to any further information from Miss L or from One Insurance, my provisional 
decision was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct One Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss L (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss L disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
One Insurance should've taken ownership from the start of her claim, but instead 
closed it as fault for her within 3 days of raising the claim, so had no intention of 
recovering costs with the third partys insurer.
She provided the crime reference number when she logged her claim, including the 
vehicle registration number, but One Insurance chose to do nothing with the 
information.
She was reversed into by the third party, who took full responsibility at the time for 
the accident, but she didn't receive any phone calls from One Insurance - it was her 
chasing them, including repairs which were originally said to be delayed until 
November 2022, but after she complained One Insurance found a garage to do the 
repairs needed.
She has lost 9 years NCD and is paying more for her insurance and feels this is 
wrong.
One Insurance hasnt responded to the provisional decision. But I consider that its offer of 
£150.00 still stands. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. One of those rules means that  before we can investigate a complaint 
the consumer must first have made that complaint to the business and waited for up to eight
weeks for a final response.
It follows that we usually investigate the complaint points which the final response shouldve
answered. And we usually have to deal with later complaint points as a separate complaint.
An insurer will often make a financial outlay in settling its policyholders claim, for example
for repairs. Where an insurer has made such an outlay, its common practice for that insurer
to treat the claim as an open claim or as a fault claim against its policyholder, unless and
until it recovers its outlay in full, typically from a third partys insurer.
Any claim, and especially a fault claim, is likely to increase the premium on the next renewal.
In my view, the incident with the police van and the need to make a claim were bound to 
cause Miss L some distress and inconvenience.
The excess was an uninsured loss. I dont consider that One Insurance was under an 
obligation to Miss L to pursue recovery of that loss on her behalf. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct One Insurance to compensate her for it.
I accept that One Insurance was responsible for a delay in contacting the police from mid-
June to mid-August 2022. In my view, that caused Miss L to chase One Insurance for
progress and updates. So it caused her some distress and inconvenience beyond that
usually associated with an insurance claim.
However, a claim against a third party typically takes weeks or months. So it was likely that
the claim would still be open  and would affect her premium - when Miss L needed to get
insurance in August 2022. I cant say that One Insurances delay in the summer of 2022
caused Miss L to pay a higher premium than if there had been no such delay.
The events after July 2022 didnt form part of the complaint to which One Insurance made
the final response dated August 2022.
Nevertheless I note that from August to November 2022, One Insurance contacted and
chased the police on the email address Miss L had provided. That email address didnt
incorporate an individuals name but rather his badge number.
In early December 2022, Miss L sent an email to the individuals email address incorporating
his name  and he replied.
It wasnt until mid-December 2022 that our investigator gave One Insurance that email
address and One Insurance began sending email to that address as well as the one
incorporating the badge number.
It wasnt until about 20 January 2023 that the police told Miss L the van registration, she told
us, and we told One Insurance. A few days later, a police solicitor sent an internal email
including the following: all available documentation suggests we were at fault.
Whilst I am not permitted to advise [Miss L], it does appear that she needs to take the
matter up with her own insurers. I am content for you to provide her with a copy of
this email to enable her to do so.
This indicates that One Insurance has good prospects of success in its claim for its outlay
and for any claim to recover the excess for Miss L. So it is disappointing that One Insurance
hasnt responded to the investigators changed opinion, and theres no evidence that it is
progressing a claim against the police.
So Ive thought about endorsing the investigators recommendation for One Insurance to
contact the police. and Ive thought about going further by directing One Insurance not to
record the accident in late June 2022 as a fault claim against Miss L.
However, I dont consider that the rules allow me to uphold a complaint about events that
happened after the complaint as it stood between late July and late August 2022  or to
direct One Insurance how to respond. Miss L may make a separate complaint to One
Insurance about such events.
Rather, Ive thought about the impact on Miss L of the shortcomings Ive found in One
Insurances service before she complained in late July 2022. I dont underestimate that
impact. However, I consider that One Insurances offer of £150.00 was fair and reasonable
compensation in line with our usual approach to distress and inconvenience.
Miss Ls response to the provisional decision
Miss L has said that she provided the crime reference number when she logged her claim, 
including the vehicle registration number. 
However, I find that when she made her claim, Miss L hadnt got the registration number of 
the third partys vehicle. She didnt get it until late January 2023.
Miss L has said that One Insurance closed the claim as a fault claim against her within 3 
days of raising the claim, so it had no intention of recovering costs from the third partys 
insurer. 
However, I find that One Insurance couldnt do anything about recovering its outlay from the 
third party without the registration number of the third partys vehicle or details of its insurer. 
And I find that One Insurance didnt have such details until late January 2023.
Miss L has said that she didn't receive any phone calls from One Insurance  - it was her 
chasing them, including about repairs. I accept her statement that she made that complaint 
to One Insurance on 29 June 2022. 
However, I consider that One Insurance resolved that complaint the same day by booking 
her car in for repair on 4 July 2022 and arranging a courtesy car. I dont find One Insurance 
responsible for her travel costs in the meantime. And Miss L was also chasing One 
Insurance about contacting the police. I accept that in the week or so since the accident, 
One Insurance had caused Miss L irritation and waste of time chasing One Insurance. But I 
dont consider that One Insurance caused Miss L distress and inconvenience at a level that 
calls for compensation beyond the £150.00 that it offered.
Miss L has said that she has lost 9 years NCD and is paying more for her insurance. However, her complaint as it stood between late July and late August 2022 doesnt lead me 
to the conclusion that One Insurance treated her unfairly by treating the claim - at that stage 
- as a fault claim against her. 
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct One Insurance Limited to pay Miss L (insofar as it hasnt 
already paid her) £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct One Insurance Limited to pay Miss L (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £150.00 for
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman