DRN-1895868
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1995 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Santander has transferred responsibility for PPI complaints like this to AXA. Aside 
from which company were looking at this against, nothing else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision, Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
This complaint has been brought by Mr D, on behalf of Mrs D, who has died. I extend my 
belated condolences to Mr D. For simplicity, I will refer to the Estate of Mrs D as Mrs D. 
Mr D says AXA mis-sold Mrs D the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Mr D has raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the evidence on 
the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store 
card. To get the PPI, Mrs D had to tick a Yes box to get the PPI. There was also a No box 
on the form. So I think that Mrs D ought to have understood this was something she could 
say No to. If Mrs D hadnt wanted the cover she could have ticked the No box. The box is 
ticked for the PPI and Mrs D signed the form which suggests her agreement with its 
contents. So, it seems most likely that Mrs D chose to take the cover, and would have been 
given a choice about doing so. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.The information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time it seems that she 
was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs D would have benefited from the cover. I say this because whilst her 
sick pay was good initially, it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr D told us whilst 
Mrs D had some modest other means she could have relied on, due to the passage of time, 
there was no evidence available to assess the size of these. The policy could have paid 15% 
of the balance until the claim stopped or the balance was repaid, whichever occurred first. 
So, as this policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay that Mrs D would have 
received and for longer than her employers would have paid her at her full rate of pay. It 
would have protected any savings Mrs D may have had available to her and would have 
been helpful if she lost her job. So, I think the PPI could be useful for her.
So, having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs D off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 14July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman