DRN-1987348
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc in 
connection with a claim he made under his mobile phone insurance. The insurance is a 
benefit of his packaged bank account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr Bs insurance was provided by Aviva at the time he made a claim. It was 
administered by Carphone Warehouse but ultimately, Aviva was responsible the 
decision made and how the claim was handled. So, in this decision, Ive only 
considered Mr Os interactions with NatWest. 
Ive listened to Mr Bs calls with NatWest. Hes clearly frustrated that his claim was 
turned down. Thats understandable  to not have a phone before a big holiday, with 
all the features they offer, must have been upsetting. But NatWest neither made that 
decision or are responsible for it. And I think the staff explained that to him 
professionally.  
NatWest did award £60 to Mr B  mainly for service he received in branch and his 
time spent dealing with the matter. I think thats fair. Given that NatWest arent 
responsible for the claim, its difficult to see how their involvement couldve really 
impacted the situation. Thats bearing in mind that it seems to me that the driving 
force of Mr Bs frustration was how the claim was handled. 
It follows that I dont think NatWest needs to put anything right here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman
