DRN-3300695
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) didnt support part of a claim he
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Sainsburys, but I dont currently agree with the investigators
opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
If Mr T was given a false statement of fact and if that false statement of fact led him to enter
into an agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, I would think the finance
agreement had been misrepresented to him and Id ask Sainsburys to take some further
action.
Was there a false statement of fact?
The MOT records for this van show the following mileages:
2015 17,694
2016 47,691
2017 61,329
2018 51,513
2019 56,697 (July)
57,868 (November)
2020 61,278
Theres a discrepancy as the mileage reduces between 2017 and 2018 and that isnt
possible.
So, it seems that either the mileage recorded in 2017 was too high; or the mileage recorded
in 2018, and subsequently, was too low; or the odometer was changed at some point after
the 2017 MOT and before the June 2018 service when the first record of a mileage lower
than that in the 2017 MOT is reported.
I think its likely that the mileage recorded in the 2017 MOT is correct. I say that because:
That would mean the van had completed about 13,690 miles in the preceding year
and thats not unreasonable for a vehicle of that type.
If the 2017 MOT mileage was incorrect that would mean the van had only travelled
3,822 miles in two years between the July 2016 MOT and the July 2018 MOT. Thats
very low and I think unlikely.
I think its therefore more likely that something went wrong with the vans mileage after the
July 2017 MOT and before the June 2018 service (receipts show the mileage at that point to
be 49,653). It seems most likely that the mileage was wound back.
The dealership have explained that they werent aware of any mileage discrepancy when
they sold the van to Mr T in November 2019 and its clear they reported the mileage that was
recorded on the MOT completed before the van was sold to him. But just because they didnt
know the mileage was wrong doesnt mean Mr T wasnt provided with false information.
I think its likely the vans mileage was wrong at that point. Its difficult to establish what the
mileage should have been in 2018 because annual mileages have varied significantly. The
van completed what appears to have been an unusually high mileage of nearly 29,997
between 2015 and 2016 and between 2016 and 2017 it had completed about 13,638 miles.
On that basis I think the actual mileage at the MOT in 2018 should have been somewhere in
the region of 74,967 (61,329+13638) and 91,326 (61,329+ 29,997). 
Mr T bought the van a year later when it had, according to the MOT records, completed a
further 6,355 miles. So, I think its likely the actual mileage at that point would have been
about 81,322 (74,967 + 6,355) to 97,681 (91,326 + 6,355).
But Mr T was told the van had only completed around 57,000 miles so I think he was given a
false statement of fact.
Did the false statement of fact lead Mr T to enter into an agreement?
The investigator has suggested this wasnt the case. She explained that the van was sold at
a bargain price and was cheaper than others on the market at the time.
But Im not persuaded by that argument. Whilst I can understand that the vans resale value
may have held up, I think if Mr T was aware of the fact there was an MOT mileage
discrepancy on the van, and what appears to be quite compelling evidence the odometer
readings may have been tampered with, he wouldnt have been likely to proceed with thedeal.
I think its likely he would have been concerned about the need to report the discrepancy to
the authorities and that he would have been worried about the true mileage and the amount
of wear that may be present on the van, that could increase the maintenance costs of the
vehicle. I think thats especially true as there was a significant mileage discrepancy.
So, I think the van was misrepresented to Mr T. He was given a false statement of fact and I
think that false statement led him to enter an agreement he wouldnt have otherwise entered
into.
Putting things right
In those circumstances we try to put consumers back in the position they would have been in
had the misrepresentation not taken place. But that presents some difficulty here. Ill explain.
Mr T has explained it would be very inconvenient for him to give the van back as he uses it
for work. He says that even if he did give the van back its probably worth more money now
than it was then, as van values have risen not fallen. Having looked at CAP valuations for
the van for 2019 and 2021 I would agree. The values in 2021 are higher by a few hundred
pounds even when the additional mileage the van would have covered since 2019 is taken
into account.
So, I dont think the fairest way to resolve this matter is to take the van back and I think the
best solution would be for Sainsburys to pay Mr T a sum that accounts for any loss hes
incurred because of the misrepresentation.
Mr T paid £3,600 for the van in 2019 when the recorded mileage was about 57,000. I think
Mr T did get his van cheaply as the CAP valuation for the van at the point of sale was
£5,095. Ive explained that I think the mileage was probably not 57,000 and was probably
somewhere between 81,322 and 97,681 at that point. CAP valuations for the van at those
mileages and at the point of sale were £4,650 and £4,425 respectively. So, taking the 
midpoint for the valuations as £4,538, I think its fair to say Mr T paid about £557 more for 
the van than he would have if the misrepresentation hadnt taken place.
I think thats the amount that Sainsburys should therefore pay Mr T as a fair resolution to his
misrepresentation claim. 
I can see that Sainsburys have already offered to refund the repair costs Mr T incurred
repairing the van. The relevant legislation says that we should consider faults that happen in
the first six months of ownership to be present when the van was sold unless the business
can demonstrate otherwise. As theres been no evidence to the contrary I would agree that
the faults with Mr Ts van were most likely present when it was sold to him and that
Sainsburys are therefore responsible for refunding the repair costs of £704.39. So, I think
their offer of a refund was a fair one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay Mr T £557.
Both parties provided some further information for me to consider when coming to a final 
decision. 
Mr T wanted to emphasize the high degree of wear on the van. He said the exterior mirrors 
were very worn and had score marks all over them. He went on to explain that in November 2019, it was possible to buy a similar van with a mileage of around 100,000, with less wear 
and tear, for about £2,000.
Sainsburys didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said Mr T had paid considerably 
lower than market value for the van and, as hed done so, it was likely he would have 
proceeded with the deal even if hed been made aware of the mileage discrepancy. They 
suggested that was likely to be the case because the van was an investment that had 
subsequently increased in value and that Mr T appeared to be happy to keep. Sainsburys 
suggested that the sales price of the van was reflective of the wear that was present.
They said my provisional decision also appeared to hold them to a greater liability than the 
merchant as the merchant would be able to insist on the customer returning the van and 
issuing a full refund. This would then leave them with an asset I had confirmed was worth 
considerably more than the customer paid for and theyd be free to sell it.
Sainsburys disagreed with my mileage calculations. They said I should have used the 2019 
to 2020 mileage instead of the 2015 to 2016 mileage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr T thinks he could have got a similar van cheaper in 2019 when he took 
receipt of this vehicle but I dont think thats borne out by the CAP valuations Ive reviewed 
and I still think he paid about £557 more than he would have done if the mileage was 
correctly reported.
Ive thought again about whether Mr T would have bought the van anyway, but Im still not 
persuaded he would have. Its true that Mr T does want to keep the van now, but that is a 
decision that I think its fair to say is significantly influenced by the knowledge the vans price 
has held up so well and alternatives are probably difficult, and expensive, to source at the 
moment. Mr T wouldnt have been aware that was going to be the case when he agreed to 
buy the van. So, I still think its likely he would have been concerned about the need to report 
the discrepancy to the authorities and that he would have been worried about the true 
mileage and the amount of wear that may be present on the van, that could increase the 
maintenance costs of the vehicle. I think thats especially true as there was a significant 
mileage discrepancy.
Ive already explained why I dont think the fairest solution would be to ask Mr T to return the 
van. Whilst it may be the case, as Ive explained, that misrepresented goods could be 
returned in order to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in had the 
misrepresentation not have taken place. I think, in these circumstances, the fairest approach 
is for Sainsburys to refund the extra Mr T paid for the van, that I dont think he would have 
paid, if the misrepresentation hadnt taken place.
I also dont think I was wrong to use the mileage range that the van had completed in the 
years prior to Mr T buying it as a guide to calculate the mileage that should have been 
recorded. It is surely a better reflection of the type of mileage being completed when the 
error occurred. 
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional evidence that has led me to change my 
provisional decision and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay 
Mr T £557.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman