DRN-2478410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that TSB Bank plc wont refund money that they lost when Mrs S fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs S decided to purchase a gold chain for Mr S which shed seen advertised on 
the online marketplace, Gumtree. The cost of which was £1,000. 
The seller of the chain told her to make a payment directly into their bank account, on the 
agreement that they would then post the item to Mrs S. After some discussion with this 
individual, Mrs S agreed to send half of the total cost, with the other half being transferred 
once she received the chain. 
Unbeknown to Mrs S at the time was that this was a scam. So, when she went into her local 
TSB branch to make the bank transfer over the counter, she unwittingly sent £500 to a 
fraudster. 
Shortly afterwards, when the chain hadnt arrived, Mrs S tried contacting the individual. But, 
upon them not returning her messages or calls, she realised that shed been the victim of a 
scam. 
So, two days after sending the payment, Mrs S notified TSB and asked the bank to retrieve 
the £500. However, a few days later, TSB said that the money had been sent to Yorkshire 
Bank and this bank had confirmed there was no funds left available in the receiving account. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs S complained. After looking into the complaint, TSB was satisfied it 
hadnt done anything wrong in relation to the payment being sent  Mrs S had authorised it. 
The bank concluded that it couldnt reasonably be expected to have done anything further to 
prevent the payment from being made. According to the recent transaction history of the 
account, TSB was satisfied that this £500 wasnt uncharacteristic or unusual enough to have 
triggered an intervention while Mrs S was in branch. TSB also reiterated that it contacted 
Yorkshire Bank in a timely manner, and this bank had explained the funds had been 
withdrawn well before Mrs S raised the scam on 5 July 2018.
Mrs S brought the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. He wasnt 
persuaded the transaction was unusual to the extent that TSB ought to have identified that 
Mrs S might be the victim of a scam and so taken further steps. He also thought TSB had 
employed reasonable endeavours to try and recoup the funds from the receiving bank. 
Mrs S does not agree. She submits that TSB ought to have explained that the payment 
could not be retrieved before she submitted it. Especially, as she made the staff in branch 
aware that this was the first time she had made a transaction of this kind. 
Because Mr and Mrs S are not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and in accordance with banking terms and 
conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer (in this 
case Mrs S), even if they were duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by 
third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a professional banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
There is no dispute that Mrs S was duped into authorising a payment for what she thought 
was a purchase of a chain for her husband. This payment took place on 3 July 2018 and 
was made via a Faster Payment while Mrs S was in a TSB branch. Although Mrs S says 
this was the first time shed made a transaction of this kind, its common ground that she 
authorised the payment using her usual security credentials. So, I conclude that this was an 
authorised payment, for which Mrs S is liable  unless there is evidence that TSB could and 
should reasonably have done more to protect her.  
Ive thought carefully about this. When doing so, I must consider that the purchase of items 
advertised online is commonplace. Its Mrs S discretion how to spend her money and, in 
these circumstances, the buying of an item from a well-known market place like Gumtree 
would not reasonably alert the bank or cause suspicion. Especially, if Mrs S pointed out that 
she was only sending the first half of the total cost before waiting to send the remaining £500 
once she was in possession of the item. If anything, upon questioning from bank staff, this 
wouldve demonstrated a degree of prudency on Mrs Ss part, as it added a safeguard 
measure of securing the item before committing to the payment of the total cost.  
Looking at the payment amount, this is not a significant sum in contrast to the other 
expenditure on the account in recent months. Rather, £500 was considerably less than some 
of the transactions that took place during that time. For example, there were multiple cash 
withdrawals and spending for thousands of pounds leading up to 3 July 2018. The account 
balance at the time was around £9,000 in credit  so, this payment certainly did not drain the 
account nor represent an unusually expensive debit. On the contrary, a transaction of this 
value was in keeping with the typical spending habits of Mr and Mrs S.
In such circumstances, Im not satisfied the payment for £500 was so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have triggered an alert or given TSB grounds for suspecting 
fraud. I find no persuasive evidence that TSB breached its duty to Mrs S, or that it shouldnt 
have executed without undue delay the authorised payment request she instructed it to 
make. I have to bear in mind that there is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of 
all payment-service users and/or commercial efficiency  and TSB did also have a duty to 
execute a properly-authorised payment request within a reasonable period.  Mrs S submits that the staff in branch were made aware that this was the first time she had 
made a Faster Payment over the counter. And, crucially, had they told her the payment was 
irretrievable once sent, she wouldnt have gone ahead with sending it. On the other hand, 
TSB maintains that the process its staff follow in branch make it likely that Mrs S was told.  
In situations like these, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I need 
to decide a complaint on what I think is more likely than not to have happened in light of all 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
TSB has shown that theres a set method that its branch staff follow before executing a 
payment request of this type. Ive reviewed a relevant process map which includes a clear 
provision to verify the account details for the recipient account before proceeding any further 
with the payment request. This is typical of a banks protocol in my experience, because 
even just one typo or incorrect digit can cause a payment to go astray  so, the accuracy of 
the instruction needs to be ensured, both on the grounds of the recipients details and the 
payment amount itself. 
As I see it, asking a customer to verify the account details is a recognised way to prevent the 
wrong sort code and/or account number being entered, regardless of how many times a 
customer had made such a payment instruction before. All of which, leads me to believe that 
Mrs S would probably have been asked to double check the details she had given, prior to 
the payment being let go.  
Whats more, TSB has provided a statement from the staff member who executed the 
payment request in question. This testimony makes it clear that they always follow the 
process of asking the customer to verify the account details and go on to explain that this is 
because the payment cannot be recalled once sent. It makes sense to me that a staff 
member working in branch would be aware of the risk of a payment being lost, so they would 
understand the importance of sharing this insight before completing a customers payment 
request. I have no reason to doubt the credibility of this individuals version of events. Nor, 
am I compelled to believe that they wouldve made an exception on this particular occasion 
by not advising a customer as they normally would. Rather, it strikes me that being told by 
Mrs S that this was the first time she had made a payment of this kind would make it more 
likely for such counsel to have been given.  
So, while I appreciate Mrs S feels strongly on the matter, I am persuaded that an effective 
warning was in fact given at the material time. This is not the same as dismissing Mrs Ss 
statement  and I hope Mrs S can appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me 
to uphold this complaint if on balance the evidence suggests otherwise. 
Ive gone on to look at the steps TSB took once it was aware that the payment was the
result of fraud. Im satisfied TSB took action without undue delay, notifying Yorkshire Bank
bank the same day  which is what Id expect it to do. Unfortunately, by the time TSB had
contacted this receiving bank, the money had already been removed from the receiving 
account. This is typical behaviour by scammers to avoid detection and recovery.
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs S being the victim of what was 
clearly a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct TSB to refund the loss if I 
thought the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case here. 
Everything considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold TSB liable in these 
circumstances. It follows that I will not be asking the bank to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman