Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) sold 
them payment protection insurance (PPI) in February 1997 to go with a mortgage.
Background
Only Mr C was covered by the policy which provided cover for unemployment but 
not accident and sickness.
Mr and Mrs C they didnt know the PPI had been added to their mortgage. They also say 
the policy wasnt properly explained to them.
In my provisional decision dated 12 May 2020 I explained why was not intending to uphold 
this complaint and why I thought Mr and Mrs C had were most likely aware theyd bought the 
cover and that it was suitable for their circumstances. I set out an extract below:
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs Cs personal circumstances and financial situation were 
discussed in some detail when they took out their mortgage. So I consider it likely that PPI 
would have been discussed at the same time. So, whilst I dont have the actual PPI sale 
paperwork from the time, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs C would have been aware that 
they could take out PPI cover to go with their mortgage and knew something about the policy 
benefits. On balance, I therefore think it was their own decision to buy the cover.
However, our adjudicator thought that because of a medical condition Mr C had taken time 
off work for several months in the year before he bought the policy, it meant the policy had 
been mis-sold. This was because our adjudicator considered there was a likelihood that Mr 
C could experience the same condition again and that he might end up losing his job as a 
consequence. If that was to happen, our adjudicator considered Mr C wouldnt be able to 
make a successful claim on the policy due to an exclusion clause that covers pre-existing 
medical conditions hed been treated for in the 12 months prior to taking out the cover. So 
they thought this meant he wouldnt have gone on to buy the PPI if this had been made 
clearer.
We do sometimes find that pre-existing medical issues that consumers cannot claim for and 
that this is because they werent asked about them at the time they bought the policy or the 
sale paperwork didnt make the policy exclusions sufficiently clear to them. But in this case I 
disagree with our adjudicator. I will explain why.
Ive looked very carefully at the personal circumstances surrounding Mr Cs medical 
condition at the time it happened. Having done so, I think it was very much linked to a single 
event. Whilst Im sorry to hear of what happened at this time, it looks like the medical 
condition was linked to it. So the occurrence of this condition at this time was very much a 
DRN-1916424one-off, if unfortunate, event that was unlikely to have a significant impact on Mr Cs overall 
future ability to continue in work.
Ive also considered the wider aspects of the cover. Mr C would have still been covered if 
hed lost his job for reasons other than the medical condition hed experienced shortly before 
he applied.
It follows that I dont consider the injury to be an issue on which Id uphold this complaint.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
I sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. Neither party has come back with 
any further comments or any other information which they wanted me to consider before 
making my final decision. In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the findings 
I made in my provisional decision.
It follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out and so I will not be requiring Prudential 
to take any action to compensate them. 
My final decision 
For the reason set out above and explained in my provisional decision attached I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman