DRN-2023770
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a critical illness policy alongside mortgage lending 
from Barclays Bank UK Plc in 2004. 
She says Barclays hasnt resolved her complaint properly. Instead it offered a partial refund 
for selling the wrong type of policy. Mrs M wants her premiums returned to her in full, since 
she says the policy was not appropriate for her in the first place.  
What happened
Mrs M met with a Barclays (trading as The Woolwich) adviser to secure mortgage lending 
following her divorce proceedings. She says she was unduly pressured into taking out a 
critical illness policy alongside the borrowing. 
The policy was provided by a third party insurer. It commenced in October 2004, for a 
twenty-year term. It offered Mrs M level critical illness cover and additional free terminal 
illness and life cover with a sum assured set at the initial value of her capital repayment 
mortgage, with a monthly premium of £17.85. 
In March 2019, Mrs M cancelled the policy. She said she hadnt needed to re-mortgage so 
didnt realise she could cancel the cover until her new partner highlighted that she could. 
Mrs M also raised a complaint. She said she was told she had to take out the policy in order 
to obtain her mortgage at a time when affordability was an issue for her. At the time of the 
remortgage, Mrs M was unemployed and in receipt of income-based state benefits.  
Barclays issued a final response to the complaint on 26 July 2019. It said it believed the 
recommendation the adviser had made was suitable in the circumstances, except that it 
should have proposed the cover was on a decreasing term, to match Mrs Ms capital 
repayment mortgage. Instead shed been advised (correctly) to take out level term cover.  
Barclays therefore obtained a comparison quote from the insurer which confirmed Mrs Ms 
policy would have been £14.46 per month meaning for the time the policy was in force, Mrs 
M paid £3.39 more per month than she should have done. It therefore refunded the 
difference to Mrs M, plus interest. It also paid £150 to Mrs M for the delay in dealing with her 
complaint.  
In November 2019, Mrs M returned a signed acceptance form to Barclays.  
In the interim, Mrs M also pursued her complaint to this service, where it was passed to one 
of our investigators. Barclays said it believed the case was closed, because Mrs M had 
accepted the offer put to her and its correspondence had been clear that the offer was in full 
and final settlement of the complaint.
The investigator reviewed with Barclays whether it consented to the complaint continuing, 
noting Mrs M had brought the complaint to this service before it had offered redress, and 
outside of the eight weeks it had to issue a response to the complaint. Barclays consented to 
the complaint being allowed to proceed.  
However, Barclays said it did not think the complaint ought to be upheld. Firstly, it said there 
was no provision in the insurers policy terms which meant an unemployed person could not 
apply for the cover. Secondly, Mrs M had a view to seeking employment in the future and it 
was documented that she had done so by 2007. Finally, it said that an affordability 
assessment had been undertaken when Mrs M took out the mortgage, and there was no 
suggestion that the original £17 premium was unaffordable for her. 
Our investigator agreed with Barclayss assessment that Mrs M should have been offered a 
decreasing term policy not a level term one. In addition, she noted that the mortgage 
documentation made clear that a protection policy such as critical illness was not a condition 
of the lending. She therefore did not believe it was likely Mrs M had been pressured into 
taking out the policy. Finally, she felt the policy would have been useful to Mrs M if she had 
needed to make a claim, as her mortgage would have been paid off should she have fallen 
seriously ill.  
Mrs M said she disagreed with the investigators findings and she wanted an ombudsman to 
look at the complaint. In summary, she said:
she was sold a policy she did not want or need;
given the time taken to review her case, she felt this service could have been more 
empathetic;
she takes the view that Barclays has accepted liability else it would not have agreed 
to pay her over £800 in redress;
it is pure speculation for the investigator to say that an ombudsman would reach the 
same outcome, without it being passed across for a fresh review.  
Barclays said it had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the information from both parties, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. That means I wont be asking Barclays to 
compensate Mrs M any further than it already has. I appreciate that this will be disappointing 
for Mrs M, but Ill explain below why I do not believe Barclays has done anything wrong.  
To be clear, Barclays has not accepted liability for mis-selling the policy. It expressly said it 
had not done so in the final response letter issued in July 2019. What it said was that it 
accepted its adviser had made a mistake in the type of recommendation made (providing 
level term cover when the borrowing was not an interest only mortgage), not that the 
recommendation itself shouldnt have gone ahead. 
I realise Mrs M feels strongly that she was told the policy had to be taken out so that she 
could secure the mortgage. I am mindful of what she can recall. But there is no record of 
what was actually said. And the written records differ. The mortgage offer letter expressly 
confirms under a section of the offer entitled Insurance you must take out through The 
Woolwich that You [Mrs M] are not required to take out any insurance through The 
Woolwich. The only insurance required as a condition of the mortgage was buildings cover.
I believe the mortgage offer documentation (sent to Mrs M after her mortgage application) 
was clear in setting out that the protection policy was not a mandatory requirement in order to secure the mortgage lending. The insurer would also have sent a cancellation notice to 
Mrs M, if she had wished not to proceed to with the policy or cancel it in the future. On 
balance, I believe it was more likely that a recommendation was made by the Woolwich 
adviser in 2004, and Mrs M was free to reject it. 
Though I understand Mrs M says she didnt know she could cancel her policy until it was 
drawn to her attention, that doesnt alter that the policy was (in my view) a reasonable 
proposal in the first instance. Mrs M was free to cancel it if she did not consider it worthwhile, 
but my role in being fair to both parties is to decide whether the advisers proposal met Mrs 
Ms recorded needs in 2004.  
Firstly, I agree that the right type of policy for a capital repayment mortgage is a decreasing 
term policy, unless an applicant requires additional wider insurance (such as for family 
protection) than merely protecting the mortgage liability. Mrs M says cost was a factor for her 
at the time, because she was not working. Therefore, the adviser should have proposed the 
policy that best matched the type of mortgage lending.  
Barclays has appropriately compensated Mrs M for the fact the adviser failed to propose the 
correct type of mortgage protection policy. However, I think the overall recommendation to 
take out mortgage protection was a sound suggestion and that it was particularly sensible 
given Mrs Ms circumstances.
An affordability assessment had been undertaken with Mrs M for the purposes of her 
mortgage lending and the evidence shows that there was sufficient disposable income 
available for Mrs M to be able to meet the £17.85 (which should have been £14.46) monthly 
premium. 
Mrs M was remortgaging her home at a time where she was in the process of a divorce. She 
had care for two dependent children and was reliant on state benefits. I realise that her 
income would not be affected if she fell ill, unlike a position of employment which could 
potentially be lost in the event of longer-term sickness or critical illness. 
But, Mrs M had responsibility for her children with a sole mortgage liability. Considering 
insurance for the event of ill health or death was a reasonable approach. In return for 
continued payments of a monthly premium over the policy term, it provided a lump sum 
payment (the sum assured) which (in the case of decreasing cover) should broadly match 
that of the outstanding capital repayment mortgage should she have passed away, become 
terminally ill or developed one of the critical illness listed in the policy. 
Having that type of insurance when taking on a mortgage debt is a prudent step to take. A 
payment in the circumstances that Mrs M fell ill or passed away would have ensured enough 
funds for herself and/or her family were available to clear the outstanding mortgage debt (if 
the policy had been a decreasing term one) at a difficult time. And Mrs M didnt have existing 
insurance at the time the Woolwich provided her the advice. 
It follows that I believe the recommendation was fair in the circumstances. Though Mrs M 
has since cancelled the cover, she had the benefit of the insurance during the policy term, 
and she could reasonably have pursued a claim under it if required. As such, I dont agree 
that the policy premiums ought to be returned to her.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman