DRN-1925414
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that National Westminster Bank Plc has treated them unfairly in 
relation to property development loans that were drawn down in 2008. 
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs J wanted to refinance an existing loan with another lender. They also 
wanted additional funding for property development.
NatWest agreed two loans, of £390,000 and £130,000, secured on a property Mr and Mrs J 
were converting into flats. Mr and Mrs J drew down most of that money in March 2008. The 
intention was that they would repay the loans within 12 months, using the proceeds of the 
sale of the flats.
Mr and Mrs J experienced significant problems with the development, and the project took 
much longer than they originally expected. They were unable to repay the loans as originally 
agreed, and they were not able to agree new loans with NatWest. NatWest passed the 
account to its recoveries department in December 2011.
Over the next few years there were several offers for one or more of the flats, but no sales 
proceeded.
In March 2015 Mr and Mrs J proposed that their sons would buy two of the flats. They said 
their sons could only get mortgages for 75% of the value of each flat, so they asked NatWest 
to accept 75% of the valuation and forfeit the 25% deposit which we will be paying for in the 
long run. NatWest declined Mr and Mrs Js sons offers.
NatWest told us that it appointed receivers in May 2015, and that all the flats have now been 
sold. It intends to sell the freehold of the building, but even after doing so there will still be a 
significant shortfall on the loan. NatWest intends to pursue Mr and Mrs J for that shortfall.
Mr and Mrs J complained to our service. They told us that were unhappy with the actions of 
both NatWest and the receivers. To resolve their complaint, they would like the receivers to 
be dismissed and for the freehold to the building withdrawn from sale. They would also like 
significant financial compensation.
One of our investigators explained that we have no power to investigate Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint about the actions of the receivers. Looking only at NatWests actions, she didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. Overall, our investigator thought that NatWest had treated 
Mr and Mrs J fairly.
Mr and Mrs J acknowledged that we cant consider their complaint about the receivers, but 
they did not accept our investigators opinion as to NatWests actions. Briefly, they said that 
they still feel NatWest has treated them unfairly for many years, right back to 2008 when 
they could not draw down the full amount of the loans. They are particularly unhappy that 
two of the flats could have been sold to their sons in 2015, but instead default interest 
continued to accrue until the same flats sold three years later.
Mr and Mrs J note that the original loan was £520,000 less the £21,649 not drawn. The 
monies repaid to the bank from the sale of the flats and rental income and ground rent came 
to £581,746 the bank are still requesting over £150,000 from us after receiving £83,395 
profit realised over the amount of the original loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for the same 
reasons.
I know Mr and Mrs J are unhappy about the actions of the receivers, but as our investigator 
explained I have no power to consider a complaint about anything the receivers have done 
or not done. Similarly, I cannot consider a complaint about the amount of fees charged by 
the receivers.
With hindsight, I accept that Mr and Mrs J might now be better off if NatWest had accepted 
their sons March 2015 offers to pay 75% of the (then) current valuations of the flats. But 
even leaving aside any uncertainty as to whether their sons would have been able to obtain 
buy-to-let mortgages in 2015 without putting down any of their own money, I dont think 
NatWest acted unreasonably in refusing the offer. 
Mr and Mrs J said they believed their proposal would result in NatWest temporarily 
forfeiting part of the value of the flats, and so I dont think there was much disagreement at 
the time about the valuations. If NatWest had allowed the flats to be sold at an undervalue  
even to a party connected to Mr and Mrs J  it could have been rightly criticised for that 
decision. It is unfortunate that the amount the flats ultimately sold for was considerably less 
than the March 2015 valuations. But I dont think that shows that it was unreasonable for 
NatWest to refuse Mr and Mrs Js sons offers.
I am aware that the amount Mr and Mrs J have already paid back to NatWest is more than 
the amount they originally borrowed. But again, I dont see anything unfair or unreasonable 
about that. The loans have been outstanding for much longer than anyone anticipated at the 
outset, and that has inevitably meant that NatWest has applied more interest and charges 
that it would have done if the loans had been repaid on time.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs J have been through a difficult time. The development took far 
longer than they hoped, in large part because of their original builders financial troubles. 
They have also had to deal with a wide variety of other problems, from an arson attack to 
difficulties with a neighbours dog. But ultimately, what has happened here is that Mr and 
Mrs J did not repay their NatWest loans as agreed. Regardless of the amount they were able 
to draw down at the outset, I think the underlying issue is Mr and Mrs Js inability to repay 
the loans on time. Their reasons for that inability are understandable, but overall I see 
nothing unfair about the actions NatWest took to recover its money, and nothing unfair about 
NatWests decision to pursue Mr and Mrs J for the shortfall on the loans.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman