DRN-3389385
The complaint
Mr H and Ms N are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) caused damage to their 
home when carrying out repairs following a claim under their buildings and contents 
insurance. The policy was in joint names but, for ease and because Mr H dealt with the 
complaint, Ill refer only to him throughout my decision. 
What happened
Briefly, Mr H successfully claimed under his buildings and contents policy for damage 
caused by water ingress. AXA agreed to replace his carpet and Mr H paid the contractors 
separately to move his furniture and take away the damaged carpet. But he complained that 
when AXAs contractors replaced his carpet, they caused the following damage:
Scuffed the newly decorated ceiling.
Bent the ceiling light fitting.
Scratched and dented the wall.
Scratched the wardrobe door.
Mr H also says the newly laid carpet was of poor quality because it had pulled fibres and a 
crease.
AXA denied causing the damage and pointed out that Mr H had a private arrangement with 
the contractors for moving the furniture and taking away the carpet. But it agreed to inspect 
the new carpet it had fitted. 
Mr H bent the light fitting back into place himself, and accepted AXA would inspect the 
carpet. But he didnt think it was fair for AXA to deny responsibility for the contractors 
actions which had caused the further damage.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair that Mr H needed to make his own arrangements for 
the carpet removal, and she thought AXA shouldve covered that cost. In turn, then, our 
investigator thought AXA was responsible for the contractors actions, and it was more likely 
than not that the damage was caused during the carpet fitting. She recommended that AXA 
pay for all but the wardrobe door repairs, including 8% simple interest on the carpet removal 
cost. She couldnt see how the wardrobe door wouldve been damaged during the carpet 
fitting, so she didnt ask AXA to contribute to that repair.
Neither Mr H nor AXA agreed. Mr H said the wardrobe door could only have been damaged 
by AXAs contractors. AXA didnt accept responsibility for the wardrobe or wall, but it agreed 
to repair the ceiling.
Our investigator discussed the complaint further with both parties and reached agreement 
that AXA would cover the cost of the repairs to the ceiling and wall. AXA also agreed to 
contribute 50% towards the repair of the wardrobe door. But Mr H was reluctant to accept 
that without costing information and he remained of the view that AXA was fully responsible.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint, but I wont be asking AXA to do any 
more than it has already agreed to do. But, as the position has changed several times over 
the course of our involvement, I think its fair to allow both parties a final opportunity to 
comment before I issue my final decision. Ill explain now.
When Mr H first brought his complaint to our service the position was that AXA had agreed 
to inspect the pulls in the carpet and offered him compensation for the delays he 
experienced. AXA suggested he should leave the carpet crease to settle for around 12 
weeks and it didnt accept responsibility for any damage. I agree with our investigator that 
the overall offer at that point wasnt reasonable because the evidence suggested the 
contractors had damaged the wall and ceiling.
Since then, AXA has agreed to cover the cost of the repairs, limiting its contribution to 50% 
of the cost to repair or replace the wardrobe door. As the other repairs are now agreed, 
theres little benefit in going over the details of how that agreement was reached. But I will 
say that, having considered the evidence, Im satisfied AXAs offer is reasonable.
Wardrobe
Moving on, Ive looked at the photo of the wardrobe door and Mr Hs theory of how the 
damage was caused. The door is scratched near the top and towards the middle of the 
panel. While I can understand how the wall and ceiling may have been damaged during 
carpet fitting, its difficult to see how the same can be true of the wardrobe door. I have no 
reason to doubt Mr Hs theory of how the damage happened but, equally, I have no reason 
to doubt AXAs claim that it didnt cause any damage. 
In the absence of any evidence to tip the balance either way, the fairest outcome does seem 
to be to share the cost of repair. Thats because AXAs contractor accepted they may have 
caused some damage to the ceiling, so its not unreasonable to think they may have also 
damaged the wardrobe door, albeit unknowingly. But Im aware that Mr Hs furniture was 
moved around when he had private contractors in to decorate, so it would be unfair to 
dismiss the possibility that they caused the damage.  
So, Im satisfied that AXAs offer to contribute 50% towards the cost of repairing or, if 
irreparable, replacing the wardrobe door is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Repair costs
I understand Mr H is concerned about how the repair costs will be calculated. AXA explained 
that its contractor will assess the wardrobe door damage and make an offer based on that 
assessment. That may be for 50% of the estimated cost of repair or 50% towards a 
replacement wardrobe door. AXA said it will assess and then cash settle the wall and ceiling 
repairs. Until the assessments are completed, AXA wont know the settlement amount. So, 
my provisional decision is that AXA should complete an assessment of the damage 
discussed here and settle all the repair costs for the wall and ceiling, and 50% of the repair 
or replacement costs for the wardrobe door.
In summary, I think AXA has gone some way to bringing this matter to a close, but it needs 
to complete the more recently agreed action to put matters right. I realise Mr H will be 
dissatisfied that Im not proposing to ask AXA to pay the full cost of the wardrobe door repair 
or replacement, but in the absence of clear evidence, I cant fairly say AXA caused the 
wardrobe damage. As AXA had already offered to inspect the new carpet for quality issues, Im satisfied it was a reasonable offer and I wont be including that or making any additional 
requirements in my provisional decision.
I said I was intending to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
reimburse Mr H the cost of removing his damaged carpet;
pay 8% simple interest* on the amount reimbursed from the date Mr H paid for the 
removal service to the date AXA makes the payment;
complete an assessment of the damage to the ceiling and wall and pay Mr H the full 
cost to complete the repairs, and
assess whether the wardrobe door can be repaired. If it can, AXA should contribute 
50% towards the cost of repair either through use of contractors or in cash. If it cant, 
AXA should provide a 50% contribution towards the reasonable cost of replacing the 
wardrobe door on a like for like basis.
 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AXA didnt add anything further.
Mr H responded to say that two pieces of information hadnt been included in the provisional 
decision, which he thought would warrant a change. He said AXA reassured him that all 
damage caused by the fitters would be rectified, including the damage to the wardrobe door. 
And Mr H pointed out that hed already confirmed his decorator didnt damage the wardrobe 
door because it was removed before the decorator started work in the room.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this is not the outcome Mr H had hoped for, but Ive decided not to make any 
change to the outcome proposed in my provisional decision. Ill explain.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr H that I did take into consideration the information he has 
again brought to my attention. Im not required to comment on every piece of information 
available to me: instead I consider the complaint as a whole and comment on the key issues 
which help to explain how I reached my decision. Nevertheless, Ill comment on each of 
these points now.
I have no reason to doubt that AXA reassured Mr H that it would repair all damage its 
contractors caused. But the point is that AXAs contractors deny causing the damage to the 
wardrobe door. Whether or not AXA specifically said it would cover that damage is irrelevant 
because I cant fairly ask it to pay for repairs which it denies causing and for which there is 
no evidence. 
I understand Mr H removed the doors from his wardrobe before his own decorator 
completed any work. So, his position is that he cant possibly have caused any damage. But 
AXAs contractors also deny causing the damage. I have no reason to doubt either party, 
here, but clearly damage was caused. As I said in my provisional decision, in the absence of 
any firm evidence that one party or the other caused the damage, I cant fairly ask AXA to 
cover the full amount. It has agreed to cover 50% of the cost of repair or replacement and, in 
the circumstances, I think thats fair.
Therefore, I uphold Mr Hs complaint, but I wont be asking AXA to do any more than Id already proposed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc must.
reimburse Mr H the cost of removing his damaged carpet;
pay 8% simple interest* on the amount reimbursed from the date Mr H paid for the 
removal service to the date AXA makes the payment;
complete an assessment of the damage to the ceiling and wall and pay Mr H the full 
cost to complete the repairs, and
assess whether the wardrobe door can be repaired. If it can, AXA should contribute 
50% towards the cost of repair either through use of contractors or in cash. If it cant, 
AXA should provide a 50% contribution towards the reasonable cost of replacing the 
wardrobe door on a like for like basis.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman