DRN-3280816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how long it took Paragon Bank Plc to decide to decline their 
mortgage applications. They say they incurred additional costs, that they wouldnt have had 
to pay if theyd been told sooner that their applications wouldnt be successful.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021, the findings of which said:
By Paragons own admission, these applications werent handled well - its underwriter 
admitted as much in the call with the broker when the applications were declined.
What I need to decide though is whether there was any point before 23 December 2019 
where these applications should have been declined, and if so whether Mr and Mrs W 
incurred any additional costs due to that period of delay.
Im satisfied that Paragons decision to decline these applications was part of a full 
assessment of the risk, not just because of the property valuations. So it wasnt in a 
position to decline the 153B application in October 2019 as our investigator believed.
Having considered everything Im satisfied the information Paragon needed to decide that 
these applications should be declined was uploaded on 27 November 2019. Ill explain 
why.
In the call of 23 December 2019 with Mr and Mrs Ws broker, Paragons underwriter was 
very clear that draft accounts shouldnt have been requested as Paragon dont accept 
them:
I dont believe that that was ever something we should have asked you for
I know weve asked you for it, but I cant understand why the underwriter would 
ask for them because its not something that we would ever have used. We dont 
use draft accounts 
You should never have been told that we would take draft accounts because we 
dont.
In addition, the formal decline letter said the affordability decision was based on the 2018 
Tax Calculations, which had been uploaded on Wednesday 27 November 2019.
I think it is fair to say Paragon would have needed a few days to review that information 
and complete its underwriting process, so all things considered I think Paragon should 
have notified the broker that this application was declined on Monday 2 December 2019. 
Instead he wasnt told that it was likely to be declined until Friday 20 December, with 
formal confirmation of that being given over the phone on Monday 23 December.
I asked our investigator to obtain evidence of the costs Mr and Mrs W incurred for work 
done between 2 December and 23 December but unfortunately other than a structural 
survey that we already knew about weve not received that information. Whilst their 
solicitor has provided an invoice, that has no breakdown of what has been charged and 
when, it is simply an invoice for £650 for the abortive purchase of the new residential 
property and the invoice is dated February 2020.
I cant simply award that full cost against Paragon as it seems likely Mr and Mrs W would 
still have incurred some costs for the abortive purchase if they were told about the 
declined applications on 2 December rather than 23 December  it doesnt seem likely 
that whole £650 was incurred in that three-week period. I also dont know if Mr and Mrs W 
attempted to obtain alternative finance elsewhere after these were declined which 
incurred some legal costs, hence why their solicitors final invoice wasnt made up until 3 
February 2020.
If Mr and Mrs W would like us to make any award for their solicitors cost then their 
solicitor will need to provide a breakdown of the costs and when they were incurred, and 
let us know how much it would have charged if Mr and Mrs W had pulled out of the 
onward purchase on 2 December and how much it would have charged if Mr and Mrs W 
had pulled out of the onward purchase on 23 December (if different from the £650 billed 
in February). Without such detailed information from the solicitor I simply cant safely 
make any award for their legal costs.
There are no grounds for me to award any costs Mr and Mrs W incurred before 2 
December as Paragon had no reason to decline the applications before then, and I also 
cant award any costs they would have incurred anyway.
That leads me onto the only proven cost they incurred in that time, which they wouldnt 
have incurred if theyd been told that these applications had been declined on 2 
December. That is a £1,650 fee they paid on 13 December 2019 for a full structural 
survey on the onward property they wanted to buy.
From there Ive considered whether any payment is due for any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W. Im aware our investigator thought £250 was a 
fair award for that, but I dont agree.
House buying is always going to be a stressful time, and here things were complicated by 
Mr and Mrs W making multiple applications to different lenders at the same time. There 
was always a risk this whole process wouldnt go through because, as Paragon explained 
to the broker, this was a fairly high-risk plan with Mr and Mrs W going from practically no 
mortgage, to taking out multiple different mortgages totalling around £1.2m secured on 
different properties. Their proven income was relatively low, so there would be a risk if 
there were any void periods, and it seems one lender had already said no to the onwards 
purchase. 
Bearing all that in mind, and also keeping in mind Im only upholding the complaint insofar 
as I think there was a three week delay in notifying Mr and Mrs Ws broker of the decline I 
feel the investigators recommendation of £250 is too high. Having considered everything 
Im satisfied a payment of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr and Mrs W is fair.
We received no further submissions from Mr and Mrs W, despite them saying they intended 
to respond and the deadline being extended for that. Paragon responded, saying its position 
remained the same and it was willing to pay £150 compensation to acknowledge the delay. It 
said it shouldnt be held liable for any costs Mr and Mrs W incurred in the absence of a formal mortgage offer, and that the structural report was for the onward purchase, and it was 
Mr and Mrs Ws choice to obtain it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Paragons response to my provisional decision and considering 
the file afresh I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
As Mr and Mrs W havent provided us with a breakdown showing any specific legal costs 
they incurred between 2 December and 23 December 2019 I cant make any award for their 
legal costs. So that simply leaves the £1,650 they paid for the structural survey for their 
onward purchase.
Whilst I note Paragons comments about Mr and Mrs Ws costs, the fact remains that they 
wouldnt have incurred those costs had they been told sooner that their application was 
declined. I acknowledge that Paragon didnt insist on the structural survey report, it was for a 
different purchase, and it was Mr and Mrs Ws choice to incur costs before receiving a formal 
mortgage offer. But I cant ignore the fact that these purchases were all linked, and if 
Paragon had told Mr and Mrs W on 2 December 2019 that their application was declined 
then they wouldnt have incurred the cost of the structural survey for the onward purchase, 
as without the Paragon mortgage that onward purchase wasnt possible.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Paragon Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs W:
£1,650 plus simple annual interest of 8%* from 13 December 2019 to the date of 
settlement;
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* If Paragon Bank Plc considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of 
my award it may do so but it should give Mr and Mrs W the necessary paperwork, if they ask 
for it, so they can reclaim any tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman