DRN-1577427
The complaint
Mr G says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr G bought the policy in 1998  and it was added to his credit card account during a phone 
call sometime after taking out the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
Theres limited information about how the PPI was sold. But thats understandable given how 
long ago it was. So, I dont think I can fairly say that MBNA failed to make Mr G aware that 
he had a choice about buying the PPI, or that he didnt choose to protect his credit card 
repayments. I don't think it would be reasonable to uphold the complaint based solely on Mr 
G's recollection of something that happened so long ago.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
The information MBNA gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  and I 
dont think they properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out if Mr 
G made a claim. But Mr G was only eligible for statutory sick pay and had no other 
guaranteed way to keep up with his repayments if he couldnt work  so I think it wouldve 
been useful if he got sick or was made redundant. And he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.
This means that, even though MBNA didnt do everything it shouldve done, I dont think Mr 
Gs lost out because of this. So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
However, MBNA has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr G because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr 
G about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. To put that right, MBNA has 
paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Gs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Mr G.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman