DRN-3226047
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bespoke Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Bespoke) 
recommended he invest into a complex, non-standard investment within his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). Having now lost all his money in the scheme, Mr S believes the 
advice was unsuitable and would like to be put back in the same position as if the investment 
had not taken place.
Mr S is being represented by a third party, but for ease, Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S states that he first had a meeting with Bespoke in June 2014 about his retirement 
planning needs. 
Following that, in October 2014, Bespoke issued a Suitability Report (SR) to Mr S that 
discussed the possibility of moving part of the funds he held in his existing SIPP with London 
& Colonial to a Rowanmoor SIPP. The SR suggested Mr S had already made up his mind 
about the investment he wanted. A new SIPP was needed as, according to the SR, his 
existing SIPP with London & Colonial was not able to hold the new investment being 
proposed.
The Rowanmoor SIPP was subsequently set up and in December 2014, £80,000 was 
moved across to that plan from Mr Ss London & Colonial SIPP.
In January 2015, he invested £75,000 into an unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS) opportunity with Dolphin, also known as the German Property Group. £5,000 was 
held back in the pension to cover SIPP fees. The £75,000 represented around 12% of Mr S's 
total pension portfolio.
In June 2019, Rowanmoor received correspondence from Dolphin that suggested they were 
having problems honouring the redemptions on some customers plans. That information 
was passed on to Mr S who says four months later he had a meeting with Bespoke to 
discuss the situation at Dolphin.
In January 2020, further information was released and, there was a suggestion Dolphin were 
still struggling financially and were looking to restructure their debts. In October 2020, 
Dolphin entered preliminary bankruptcy proceedings. Its understood from the latest 
published FCA commentary on the issue, investors are unlikely to get back all their original 
investments.
Mr S initially complained to Bespoke in December 2020 and then again in September 2021. 
He told them, in summary, the original advice to transfer to the SIPP and invest in Dolphin 
was unsuitable. He felt that Bespoke misrepresented the UCIS investments. He went on to 
state that as an unsophisticated investor, he was unaware of the potential for total loss, and 
the advice was inappropriate for someone of his investment background. He also said that it 
was Bespoke who put forward the idea to invest in Dolphin. He said that had Bespoke told 
him it was high risk, he would never have invested. Mr S said that a third party was also 
involved in the advice process, an Adviser from a previous firm (Person X) who used to give 
him financial advice that had since been de-authorised by Regulator.
Mr S says it was Person X who initially introduced him to Bespoke and then raised the 
possibility of investing in Dolphin with him.
Bespoke rejected Mr Ss complaint. They said, in summary:
Whilst they had an introducer agreement in place with Person X who Mr S claims 
provided advice to him, the agreement stated Person X would not give any advice to 
Bespokes customers. They felt they werent responsible for policing what that individual 
did with his time and trusted him to abide by their agreement.
They believe the Dolphin investment was promoted to Mr S by Person X. Their only 
involvement was providing a SIPP that would be capable of accepting the Dolphin 
investment.
Bespoke werent paid to recommend an investment in Dolphin, they were only paid to 
recommend and arrange a SIPP. The SIPP advice fee, which was disclosed in the 
Suitability Report (SR) was paid for by Person X.
Bespoke said in the SR they issued to Mr S, theyd stated they were not recommending 
he invest in Dolphin. They pointed to the many risk warnings theyd issued to him.
They felt the Dolphin investment, when taken in consideration of his other assets and 
income, didnt look unreasonable.
Mr S was unhappy with Bespokes response. He complained to this service setting out the 
same concerns. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that 
Bespoke hadnt treated Mr S unfairly. She also said, in summary:
That she was satisfied Bespoke had carefully considered the investment which Mr S was 
considering, and they provided clear and accurate information on the Dolphin investment 
allowing Mr S to make an educated and informed decision on whether to invest in the 
scheme.
The report that was sent to Mr S stated that Bespoke hadnt recommended the Dolphin 
investment or that he open a new SIPP to facilitate it and, included risk warnings that he 
could suffer a total loss.
She also felt that Mr S had been correctly classified as a sophisticated investor with a 
large capacity for loss.
She also thought that even if Bespoke hadnt assisted Mr S with the investment, he 
wouldve found a way to make the investment without the help of Bespoke.
Mr Ss representatives however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they 
said that as Bespoke had recommended the SIPP transfer, they were also responsible for 
making sure the underlying investments were appropriate. They also said the following:
The advice was provided by an unregulated individual who promoted the Dolphin investment. They felt that Bespoke were negligent in allowing someone without the 
proper authorisation, give advice to their clients.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she did not believe Mr S had 
presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to already.
Mr S asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important to point out that where theres conflicting 
information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the 
evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to 
have happened. Further, Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this 
case. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of 
this complaint. After thinking very carefully about whats happened, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and whilst I accept Mr S is likely to be disappointed with my decision, Ill explain 
why below;
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions such as that 
performed by Bespoke for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include: - 
Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence. 
Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers. 
Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Bespoke. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint. 
Further, The Conduct of Business sourcebook (COBS) requires a firm to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to 
designated investment business carried on for a retail client (COBS 2.1.1R). The definition of 
designated investment business includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments. 
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives. When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch? Each case is 
different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ss best interests to make the advice suitable. 
And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his former pensions 
and the recommended new arrangement.
Theres a number of issues at the heart of this complaint that I believe are particularly 
relevant; the original decision to transfer monies from the London & Colonial SIPP, the 
decision to arrange the Dolphin investment and finally, whether the actual Dolphin 
investment was suitable for Mr S.
Bespoke are saying they advised Mr S against moving his SIPP and investing in Dolphin. 
But as he wanted to proceed, they simply facilitated the arrangement and therefore shouldnt 
be held accountable for his losses. Theyve said they only arranged for a new SIPP to be set 
up that was capable of accepting the Dolphin investment. Theyve also said, the Dolphin 
investment was arranged by Person X, an introducer who didnt work for their firm.
At the time of the transaction, Mr S was 58 years old and working offshore in the oil and gas 
industry as an engineer, he was planning to retire at age 65. He had a salary of £167,594 
and pension assets of £609,000 across five defined contribution schemes. His attitude to risk 
was classed as an 8 out of 10. His capacity for loss was noted as in relation to retirement 
planning, my specific investment of up to £100k would not materially affect welfare in 
retirement if it were to be lost  this is circa 17% of total pension resource. 
Mr Ss existing London & Colonial SIPP wouldnt accept Dolphin as an underlying 
investment so, to allow him the ability to invest, he needed to arrange a new SIPP wrapper 
with an alternate provider. When Mr S needed help on which SIPP provider would accept the 
Dolphin investment, Bespoke provided research and analysis and put forward three 
suggestions, Rowanmoor, Greyfriers and Westerby & Guiness Mahon.
The Regulator has been clear that where pension switch and transfer advice is being 
undertaken, it cant be done in isolation from the underlying investments. Theyve stated 
Advisers must fully satisfy themselves any investments meet the customers stated aims and 
objectives. Thats even when the investments are being arranged by someone else, as is the 
case that Bespoke are suggesting in this instance. Having read the original suitability letter 
from October 2014, the primary justification for moving funds from Mr Ss existing SIPP with 
London & Colonial to Rowanmoor, was to allow Mr S to invest in non-stock market 
investments. 
Bespoke was required to know its client and give suitable advice. It was also under a duty to 
act in the best interests of Mr S. I think its sufficiently clear the adviser knew the investment 
was to be made into Dolphin. The Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued an alert in 
January 2013 and said: "It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a 
customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, 
the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the 
customer is contemplating. I think it represents the Regulators view of how the adviser 
should have assessed the suitability of any advice given. I dont think the adviser could give 
suitable advice to recommend a SIPP without considering the investments that would be 
made into it. 
By their own admission, Bespoke have stated in their complaint resolution letter to Mr S of 
20 October 2021, they provided regulated pension advice to him. Their letter said, Bespoke 
WAS PAID to research, recommend and arrange a SIPP  i.e. a regulated product. 
Typically, Bespoke would then usually be responsible for the investments that then followed into that wrapper. However, in this instance, I dont think its as clear cut as that. I say that 
because within the SR they issued to Mr S, Bespoke stated they werent recommending that 
he make the investment.
Mr S has told this service, he only invested in Dolphin because he was advised to do so by 
Bespoke and Person X. Within the supplemental Suitability Questionnaire Mr S completed 
in November 2014, when asked about his knowledge and experience, he ticked the box I 
prefer to take advice before making investment decisions. Mr S has said the idea of 
investing in Dolphin was suggested to him on one of the many phone calls he had with 
Bespoke whilst working overseas. Given Mr Ss occupation as an Oil and Gas Engineer 
working long periods offshore, coming back to the UK on limited occasion, I remain to be 
convinced that it was his idea to approach Bespoke with the wish to invest in Dolphin. The 
fact that he also ticked the box that confirmed he always takes advice before investing is at 
odds with the suggestion he acted under his own enterprise. However, Mr S has told us he 
had a long-standing relationship with Person X even before his relationship with Bespoke 
began. So, I suspect whats most likely to have happened is that Person X, who was 
accredited to promote Dolphin, highlighted the opportunity to him and Mr S took his 
guidance. 
Bespoke have conceded they gave advice to Mr S so, thats in no doubt. But I have a 
number of concerns about the SR issued to Mr S. The letter Bespoke issued to him was just 
four pages in length. The first three pages concentrate on the background to the investment 
and the SIPP itself. On the final page, it states in a section entitled, Other comments,
Whilst understanding your desire to invest in Dolphin Capital because it is not in conflict with 
your investor profile and overall pension planning, I am not recommending that you make the 
investment or incur the additional costs of a further SIPP.
I think given the significance of the statement, it was wholly inadequate for it to have such 
little prominence in the SR. In addition, the statement is neutral. It doesnt specifically say 
whether Bespoke believe the switch and investment is or is not, in his best interests.
The latter comment in the paragraph, suggests the adviser knew the extra cost was a 
significant disadvantage. The costs of setting up the new SIPP to accept the Dolphin 
investment were higher than his existing arrangement. This meant there would be a drag on 
investment performance requiring the remaining investments needing to perform better to 
make up for the impact of those costs. But I dont think the statement above, that Bespoke 
did not recommend Mr S should set up a new SIPP and invest in Dolphin, was clear enough 
in this regard. I say that because the Adviser only stated so in the second to last paragraph 
of the SR, without explaining why. And the prominence of it was diluted by all the other 
information theyd provided.
Im also not persuaded the wording and emphasis of the SR Mr S was given was fair to him 
or in his best interest. The letter placed too much focus on the upsides of the transaction and 
not enough prominence on the risks Mr S was entering into. Whilst I should acknowledge 
Bespokes letter does confirm there was a potential he could suffer a total loss, I dont think 
the letter overall was balanced. It provided value judgements and framed the Dolphin 
investment as being well established, as well as continuing to attract substantial investment, 
enjoying the support of its banks and offering very attractive yields. I dont doubt that made 
the investment sound very attractive to Mr S. 
I should point out that, if after assessing the customers financial background, an Adviser 
believes a course of action isnt the most appropriate, a consumer can, in certain 
circumstances, still proceed with a solution. Thats referred to as an insistent client process. 
At the time of this advice, there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook which required 
Bespoke to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client. In addition, COBS required Bespoke to provide information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. So, Bespokes recommendation had to be clear and Mr S had to have 
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
As Ive said above, I dont think Bespokes recommendation was particularly clear  whilst 
Mr S may have understood Bespoke wasnt recommending he proceed with the investment, 
I dont think he wouldve understood why. And while Mr S was given generic warnings that 
he could lose his entire investment, I dont think the risk warnings were sufficiently 
prominent, particularly when compared with the potential benefits highlighted to him by 
Bespoke. 
Im also of the view the documents Mr S was sent, made it very easy for him to proceed with 
the pension switch and subsequent investment. I say that because whilst Bespoke did not 
recommend he proceed with the investment, they didnt clearly warn him he should not. 
There didnt appear to be any follow-up letters to him re-emphasising that he should carefully 
consider the course of action he was taking and, he wasnt asked to either submit anything 
in his own handwriting or sign anything to declare he understood this wasnt a course of 
action Bespoke were advocating. It seems to me he was left to decide for himself with little 
help from Bespoke. For all of these reasons, I dont think the insistent client process 
Bespoke followed was fair to Mr S.
Nevertheless, Ive considered what Mr S would most likely have done had he been given 
suitable advice and Bespoke had treated him fairly. I appreciate Mr S has recently said he 
wouldnt have transferred his SIPP in light of the collapse of Dolphin. But I need to consider 
this against the other evidence I have. I cannot be sure what would have happened, and it is 
impossible to know for certain what he would have done at that time had suitable advice 
been given. However, where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, my role is to decide, on 
the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely.
Ive thought about whether a clear explanation of the benefits and risks, and discussions 
about alternative options, might have persuaded Mr S against this course of action. 
However, Im not persuaded that it would have.
The FF completed at the time of the advice suggests Mr S held a Venture Capital Trust 
(VCT) amounting to £15,000, presumably arranged to offset his income tax and, individual 
shares totalling £1,000. VCTs are typically considered high risk investments. The FF also 
stated he owned shares in his employer, BG but it was unclear what the balance of those 
were. He also had NS&I deposits of £10,000. Allied to this he also held a number of defined 
contribution pension pots worth in total £609,000. Whilst I havent been provided with a 
breakdown of the underlying investments within those, I would typically expect them to 
contain pooled investments.
The file also confirms that Mr S had previously invested in loan note type investments in the 
past with 1st Stop and In-Circle; hed also suffered a total loss of another investment in 
Portugal. When assessing Mr Ss attitude to risk, Bespoke categorised him at the higher end 
of their risk scale, as an 8 out of 10. Their definition of an 8, or Growth investor, is as follows:
In general, Growth Investors are happy to take on investment risk and understand that this 
is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are willing to take risks with most of 
their available assets. Growth investors will readily take gambles where they see the 
potential rewards as being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their minds on 
financial matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn 
out badly, they are usually able to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-term investment. Growth Investors will usually be experienced investors, who 
have used a range of Investment products in the past. 
Im satisfied that Mr S was an experienced investor and understood the inherent risks of 
investing having seen both a total loss on his investment in one opportunity as well as 
returns on others. Whilst I dont believe he could be classed as a sophisticated investor, I do 
think he certainly appears to have the experience and appetite for these types of 
investments which on the face of it, appear to have gone well for him in the past.
Mr S had a very large salary with significant disposable income and theres evidence on the 
file he was planning on making large personal pension contributions. I suspect given his 
disposable income along with his total pension funds of around £609,000, he more likely 
than not, felt he was able to take the risk with a portion of his pension money at the level he 
did because he felt he had the capacity to do so. This I suspect was reinforced by Bespoke 
who concluded in their FF that losing the full investment would not materially affect his 
welfare in retirement.
Bespoke have made much of the fact that Mr S was high net worth (HNW) client who knew 
what he was getting in to. A HNW form was completed in November 2014. As set out in 
COBS 4.12.6, this allowed firms to communicate an invitation to purchase a non-
mainstream pooled investment to a retail client. To self-certify as a HNW individual, Mr S 
had to either have an income of £100,000 or more or hold, throughout the financial year, net 
assets to the value of £250,000 or more. But the net assets couldnt include Mr Ss primary 
residence or pension benefits. Im satisfied Mr S met the HNW requirement.
Whilst in their submissions to this service, Bespoke have claimed Mr S was a sophisticated 
investor, they were unable to categorise Mr S as a sophisticated investor under the 
Regulators COBS rule 4.12.7. Thats because, he didnt meet the requirements to be 
classified as sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the risks associated with engaging in 
investment activity in non-mainstream pooled investments. He did however sign a restricted 
investor statement confirming he understood the risks and undertook not to invest more 
than 10% of his net assets in non-readily realisable securities. That then allowed the Dolphin 
investment to be marketed to him. I dont think there can be any doubt Mr S was not 
provided with sufficient literature that spelt out the risks of what he was entering into. And 
overall, I think Mr Ss experience with these investments, his desire to achieve higher returns 
than would otherwise be available through regulated investments, and his perceived 
capacity for loss influenced his decision to proceed.
I also think the influence of Person X has to be taken into account. Based on what Ive seen, 
I think its likely Person X introduced the investment to Mr S and that Mr S relied on 
Person X to tell him the best course of action to take. Given Mr Ss reliance on that 
individual, I do think Bespoke should have paid closer attention to what direction he was 
being provided with, particularly given its understood Person X was known to have been 
sanctioned by the Regulator at the time. However, the file acknowledges Mr S knew at the 
time that individual was not a financial adviser, so I dont think Bespoke drawing Mr Ss 
attention to this wouldve made a difference here.
There is also an email on the file from 16 June 2014 in which Person X talks about ways to 
make the Dolphin investment without having to go through an advice process. They went on 
to suggest they needed to make the transfer as soon as possible stating; the rate of return 
over the five year period is 12.42% compound. This is changing downwards to a flat 10%pa, 
hence the need to get in sooner rather than later. I suspect this email created an urgency to 
act for the fear of missing out. It therefore seems to me that even if Bespoke had been 
clearer with its advice not to transfer, Mr S and Person X would have more likely than not, 
found another way to invest. I also say this because the initial fees of Mr Ss SIPP transfer were covered by Person X. I think this wouldve been an additional attractive incentive for 
Mr S to move his funds as Person X stated in the same email the cost of setting up 
administering can be borne out of the commission hence the whole exercise will cost you 
nothing.
For all of these reasons, despite the failings in the advice process that Ive identified above, 
it seems to me, that Mr Ss desire to access this investment was such that he would have 
proceeded with the transaction in any event.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and I do not require Bespoke Independent 
Financial Advisers Ltd to take any action.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint for the reasons set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman