DRN-3808883
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complained that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them packaged bank 
accounts (PBAs) and gave them wrong advice about keeping an account open.     
What happened
Mrs B opened a fee-paying Royalties account in 1999. In 2000 it changed to a Royalties 
Gold PBA account and Mr B was added as an account holder. This account was closed in 
March 2007.   
In 2012 Mrs and Mr B opened another fee-paying Royalties Gold account. In 2015 NatWest 
changed these types of account into similar Select Platinum PBA accounts  but that does 
not count as a sale of a new account.   
These PBA accounts came with a variety of banking, insurance and other benefits in return 
for the monthly fee.   
The Royalties account in 1999 gave some minor insurance benefits and some discounts, 
including on loans and overdrafts. It cost £4 per month.   
The Royalties Gold account in 2000 gave worldwide travel insurance and some minor 
benefits plus discounts, including on loans, overdrafts and credit cards. It cost £10 per 
month.   
In 2012, when a Royalties Gold account was again opened, the account included insurance 
for worldwide travel, car breakdown, home emergencies and other benefits plus discounts 
on loans and overdrafts. It cost £12.95 per month.    
It appears that Mrs and Mr B are saying the bank accounts were mis-sold because they 
were wrongly told it would improve their credit rating.   
Mrs and Mr B also complained about advice they were given later on, at some point after the 
Royalties account was first sold to them. They took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2003 
and I understand them to be saying that, at that point:   
NatWest advised them to keep the Royalties Gold account open to qualify for the 
mortgage.   
They were advised to pay their wages into a separate account  but that they should  
have been advised to shut the account and just have one account. They have said 
they lost out from this.   
Mrs and Mr B also made a separate complaint about alleged mis-selling of a mortgage that 
started in 2003. Im not looking at that issue here  Im just looking at what happened with 
the packaged bank accounts.   
Our adjudicator said he thought the complaint about the PBAs shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and 
Mr B didnt agree, and so the matter was passed to me to make a decision.  
When I reviewed the case, I reached the same overall conclusion as the adjudicator, which 
was that the complaint should not be upheld. But I had slightly different reasons and I also 
wanted to make sure that I had properly understood the complaint, as it wasnt clear this had 
been fully clarified. So I set out my view of the case in a provisional decision, to give 
everyone the opportunity to comment on my current view and to provide any further 
information that might affect my final decision.  This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.      
 
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. 
Ive kept that approach in mind when considering this case.  
 
My current view is that I should not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.   
NatWest has said it didnt formally recommend the accounts to Mrs and Mr B. That 
is to say, it didnt make a personal assessment of their circumstances and tell them it 
was a good fit for their needs. And Ive got no evidence to show that it did make this 
kind of recommendation.   
Instead, NatWest says its normal process was just to tell customers about these 
types of account, and give them the information they needed, so they could make up 
their own mind.   
Ive not been given evidence to show that Mrs and Mr B wouldnt have agreed to the 
PBAs if theyd been given better information.   
And this did happen a long time ago, and so not surprisingly there is very little 
documentary evidence of what information was given to Mrs and Mr B. Its also 
unlikely anyone would reliably remember exactly what was said. So I cant be sure 
what happened, including whether NatWest misled Mrs and Mr B about improving 
their credit rating. In a situation like this, it wouldnt usually be fair to make a person 
or business prove that it didnt do something wrong.   
From my understanding of the banking records provided by NatWest, I cant see that 
Mrs and Mr B had more than one current account open with NatWest at the same 
time. It may though be that Ive been sent only records related to the packaged bank 
accounts.   
In any case, Mrs and Mr B havent made clear how they were disadvantaged by 
keeping an account open. Also I cant see how it could be proved, so many years 
later, that NatWest misadvised them about this, or otherwise had a responsibility to 
actively advise them about their accounts.   
Overall, my current view is that there isnt good evidence that NatWest acted wrongly 
in respect of these accounts. 
In response, RBS said it had no further information to add on the complaint. 
Mr B objected strongly to my view of the case and said I had disbelieved him and his wife 
and instead had believed the bank. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt say that I did not believe Mrs and Mr B. Instead I didnt have enough evidence to 
show that RBS acted wrongly and, as I said in my provisional decision, it wouldnt usually be 
fair to make a person or business prove that it didnt do something wrong 
Ive decided to confirm my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman