DRN-3409108
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy as he believes Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox mis-sold him 
a Lifetime Instant Saver (ISA).
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Mr N says he signed up for a Lifetime ISA with Moneybox and he was aware the account 
would give a 25% bonus on the amount he had saved in the account. However, he perceives 
it to be a catch as he needed to take out a mortgage in order to receive the bonus.
The rules of the Lifetime ISA are set out by the government due to the 25% incentive 
scheme. Therefore, I cant hold Moneybox accountable for the rules surrounding the Lifetime 
ISA.
I have seen evidence to show that Moneybox didnt provide advice and the Lifetime ISA was 
taken out on an execution only basis. In the welcome pack, which Moneybox sent Mr N it 
said:
Moneybox does not provide any advice on whether the Lifetime ISA is suitable for you, 
Therefore, you must ensure that you understand the features, benefits and risks of the 
Lifetime ISA; so that you can be sure it will meet your needs, financial circumstances and 
expectations.
Therefore, as no advice was provided and Moneybox make it clear that it is the customers 
duty to ensure they are aware of the account terms and conditions before proceeding, I cant 
hold Moneybox responsible for Mr N opening the account and consequently being unhappy 
with the rules surrounding the ISA.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the Lifetime ISA I am satisfied it makes it clear 
that the residential property needs to be purchased with a loan taken as a charge over the 
property such as a mortgage. It also says the residential property cannot be purchased for a 
buy to let. 
Furthermore, the welcome says:
If you need to withdraw the money before youre 60, and its not for the purchase of your 
first home (up to £450,000) or due to terminal illness, you will pay a 25% government 
penalty. This penalty means that you will lose your 25% government bonus AND a further 
amount of your own contributions.
It also goes on to say:
If you intend to use the Lifetime ISA to help you save for your first home, the house must 
be:
(a)located in the UK;
(b) £450,000 or less;
(c) your first property; and
(d) for you to live in (i.e. it cant be a buy-to-let property)
Therefore, I am satisfied that Moneyboxs welcome pack is clear and the terms and 
conditions provide clarity about the requirement of having a mortgage and that the property 
cant be a buy-to-let. So, I cant reasonably conclude Moneybox has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman