DRN-3883567
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains about the service it received at a branch of Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
Mr T brings this complaint in his capacity as director of E.
What happened
Mr T is unhappy that when he visited a Nationwide branch, he was asked to go through 
security despite having just withdrawn money using a debit card. After Mr T talked to a 
cashier who had known him for many years, another member of staff warned Mr T about his 
behaviour. 
When Mr T made a data subject access request (DSAR) he found out that Nationwide had 
logged a report about his behaviour which said that Mr T was a repeat offender. Mr T denies 
being aggressive toward the member of staff. 
Mr T is also unhappy about the way that Nationwide handled the complaint and DSAR. 
The investigator thought Nationwide had already done enough to resolve Es complaint. He 
thought it was reasonable for Nationwide to require Mr T to verify himself before accessing 
Es account. The investigator thought Nationwide was entitled to warn Mr T about his 
behaviour in branch and that an apology was enough when Nationwide incorrectly labelled 
Mr T a repeat offender when he hadnt been noted as one. 
Mr T doesnt accept the investigation outcome. Mr T doesnt think its fair to find nothing in 
his favour despite providing evidence of wrongdoing by Nationwide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Es complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. I should also say 
that this service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the businesses we cover. We 
resolve individual complaints  it would be for the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA)  to make decisions about the way in which businesses work.
Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to try and carry out additional 
checks regardless of whether Mr T was a longstanding customer. Although Mr T had 
withdrawn cash using his debit card during the same visit, this was for his personal account. 
As Mr T wanted to check the balance on Es account, I cant criticise Nationwide for asking 
additional questions of Mr T  particularly as Es account didnt come with a debit card which 
couldve been used to verify his identity. 
I appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling about the way he was treated. But the verification 
process carried out by Nationwide was for an account in the name of E, not Mr T personally. 
E is a limited company, and therefore a separate legal entity. This service cant compensate 
directors personally for the distress they experience when dealing with a limited companys 
affairs. So, any points of complaint that Mr T might have personally against Nationwide, 
including his concerns about being labelled a repeat offender, fall outside the scope of what I 
can consider in this complaint.
I can see Mr T is unhappy about the way Nationwide handled Es complaint but the handling 
of complaints isnt itself a regulated activity. While I understand Mr Ts concern that 
Nationwide tried to close Es complaint before interviewing one of its employees, I dont 
comment further on this.
Mr T also complained about Nationwides handling of his DSAR. I asked the investigator to 
explain to Mr T that this service isnt free to consider every complaint thats brought to us. 
The rules that were governed by  known as the DISP rules  set out which complaints we 
can and cant consider. The rules are set by the regulator, the FCA, and can be found in its 
handbook. 
DISP 2.7.1 says that a complaint may only be dealt with by this service if it is brought by or 
on behalf of an eligible complainant. To be an eligible complainant, the complainant must 
meet the definition of one of the entities set out in DISP 2.7.3 and the complaint would have 
to arise from matters relevant to one of the relationships found in DISP 2.7.6. Some of the 
categories of person able to bring a complaint is consumer or microenterprise. E has 
referred the complaint to this service and meets the definition of a microenterprise. But E 
doesnt have a relationship with Nationwide in relation to any problems with the DSAR 
because the information requested was Mr Ts personal information as director. So, E isnt 
eligible to complain about the delay. Its also the case that a limited company cant make a 
subject access request (although a director can). 
I have thought about whether Mr T would be eligible to bring this aspect of the complaint to 
this service in his individual capacity. But I dont think he can as Mr T doesnt meet the 
definition of a consumer. This is because a consumer is defined in DISP as an individual 
acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft 
or profession. In this complaint, Mr T isnt acting outside of his trade, business, craft, or 
profession because the relationship he has with Nationwide (in so far as it relates to this 
complaint) stems from Es account not the one that he holds in his personal capacity. As I 
dont consider E or Mr T is eligible to make a complaint about Nationwides handling of the 
DSAR, I dont say anything further about this aspect of the complaint. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr T but for all the reasons Ive set out above, I dont require 
Nationwide to take any action in response to Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Gemma BowenOmbudsman