DRN-4236776
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, who Ill call HSBC, have turned down a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I dont think HSBC have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and some or all of the payment was made with a credit card, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I dont think HSBC were unreasonable when they asked Mr K to provide an independent 
expert report to substantiate his claim, that there had a been a breach of contract with regard 
to the installation of his solar panel system. Theyre not, after all, experts on solar panel 
installation. 
The law doesnt dictate that an independent report has to be presented in these situations, 
but I dont think the information Mr K has currently provided can fairly be considered 
sufficient to support his various claims that, for instance, the work has not been completed 
with reasonable care and skill, the installation is of unsatisfactory quality, and that 
certification was required, and should now be supplied.
The brief email from an alternative supplier (Ill call E) suggests that there may be faults 
with labelling, cable support, and cable segregation, but I dont think that email is sufficient to 
demonstrate that is definitely the case with Mr Ks installation as it seems E have had limited 
information upon which to advance that advice. Its unclear, for instance, whether they have 
visited the installation and viewed the contract. Mr K is seeking a substantial refund and I 
dont think its therefore unreasonable for HSBC to require a more detailed, truly 
independent opinion. I dont think Es report could fairly be considered independent as they 
stood to benefit from the potential award of any remedial work.
I note an invoice has been supplied for loft insulation that Mr K claims was to rectify the 
damage caused to insulation when the solar power system was fitted. While its clear 
insulation was supplied theres little evidence it was to replace damaged insulation. 
Mr K says its unreasonable to expect him to commission an independent report. He says 
hes tried, but suppliers are unwilling to provide one. I can see that in July of this year our 
investigator directed Mr K to an authority who may have been able to provide an 
independent report. As no report has been provided, and as I think the onus was on Mr K to 
substantiate his claim, I dont think HSBC have been unreasonable to reject his section 75 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman