DRN-2579389
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse all of the money she transferred to a 
fraudster. 
What happened
On 30 July 2019, Ms L was on an evening out with her mother, who was visiting her. 
Whilst out at an entertainment venue, Ms L met a person who gained her trust by pretending 
to be a successful and well-respected property investor. Sadly, the person Ms L met was 
deceiving her and turned out to be a fraudster. 
On the evening Ms L met the fraudster, he treated Ms L and her mother with kind gestures, 
such as giving them a prize that he had won in the venue and buying them a drink. Ms L 
recalls that the fraudster was very chatty and they were all enjoying being in each others 
company. Over the course of the evening, the fraudster told Ms L about his line of work and 
how he held a property portfolio that he was looking to sell. Ms L told the fraudster about her 
intentions to get into property investing. 
Ms L recalls that the fraudster held himself out to have impressive credentials. He showed 
Ms L a photograph of himself receiving a prestigious award from a senior member of the 
Royal Family and talked about the struggles he had overcome in his personal life. Ms L says 
that the fraudster seemed to be well known and well respected by others that worked at the 
entertainment venue. Ms L explains that she has never invested in anything before but was 
looking to build contacts and it felt like it was meant to be that they had met. Ms L and the 
fraudster exchanged contact details.
Later that evening, Ms L and the fraudster sent instant messages confirming they would like 
to meet again to discuss ideas and plans for potential business opportunities. The messages 
were friendly, and the fraudster was polite, sending regards for Ms Ls mother. 
The next day, the fraudster sent Ms L a message with details of an investment opportunity 
he thought she might be interested in. He described it as a short term 20% return 
investment.  He sent Ms L a sample contract to look at. 
Ms L arranged to meet the fraudster in person at the entertainment venue to discuss further. 
That meeting took place on the afternoon of 7 August 2019. Ms L recalls that the fraudster 
told her he buys commercial property at below market value and then sells it at the right 
value immediately after buying it. The fraudster told Ms L that he had got some investors 
already lined up for a property, but one had dropped out, placing that entire deal in jeopardy 
as it needed to go through in a days time. 
Ms L agreed to invest £5,000. The fraudster told her that it was a two-week investment and 
she would receive a 20% return on her funds as well as her original capital back. 
Ms L has explained that the meeting came to a close as she was due to meet a friend for 
dinner later that evening. The fraudster arranged for Ms L and her friend to have dinner at 
the entertainment venue. Ms L explains that the fraudster took care of the bill and introduced 
her to the chef. 
Whilst Ms L was at dinner, the fraudster sent a copy of the agreement for Ms L to sign along 
with a copy of his passport and his driving licence. Ms L recalls that she did not ask him to 
provide identification documents but explains that she did not think anything of it at the time. 
Ms L says that she asked the fraudster some questions about the investment and why he 
needed the money when they met. The fraudster forwarded Ms L an email purporting to be 
from a solicitor handling the conveyancing. The email said that the fraudster was due to 
receive over £300,000 in cash from the sale of another property shortly after 
19 August 2019. The email also referred to the solicitor awaiting instruction in relation to 
matters connected to other properties.
Ms L explains that before she made the payment, she looked on Companies House and it 
showed that the fraudster was a director of a company and was linked to the address on his 
driving licence. 
On 8 August 2019 Ms L made a payment of £5,000 from her HSBC current account. Initially 
the payment was unsuccessful. The fraudster told Ms L there was a problem with his bank 
account and she should send the money to his wifes account instead. He gave Ms L the 
alternate account details. 
The fraudster confirmed hed received the funds and that he was going to send Ms L details 
of his other properties with the intention of working together on future projects. But Ms L 
didnt receive any further details. When she chased things up, the fraudsters instant 
message responses took longer to arrive and started to become more non-committal in 
nature. 
Ms L was expecting to receive the money she had invested plus the promised return back on 
21 August 2019. But the fraudster became evasive and made excuses. Ms L did not receive 
any funds. The fraudster then said he would be able to get the money to Ms L by 
10 September 2019. But he stopped responding to Ms L and could not be contacted any 
further. 
When it became clear that Ms L was not going to receive her money back or the promised 
return, she tried to investigate the matter and trace the fraudster herself. She contacted the 
entertainment venue and visited the address listed on the fraudsters driving licence. She 
found out that the fraudster was not known at the address and no one of that name had lived 
there. The resident at the address told her that other people had also been to the house 
searching for the same individual. Ms L was told that the entertainment venue had barred 
the fraudster and rescinded his membership following similar complaints from other 
members. Ms L also found out that the identity documents the fraudster had sent to her were 
falsified. She contacted the Police. She also contacted HSBC. 
HSBC contacted the receiving bank as soon as it became aware of what happened but was 
unable to recover any of the money Ms L had sent. It also considered whether it ought to 
refund Ms L for her loss. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. I am also mindful that when Ms L made these payments, HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
When HSBC considered the matter, it made an offer to refund 50% of the amount Ms L lost. 
It said it could have done more to protect and advise her before she made the payment. 
But it thought Ms L could have taken more responsibility and conducted more checks before 
making the payment too. Ms L brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with 
HSBCs decision to not refund all of the funds. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. 
He thought Ms L had a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a genuine 
businessman. He pointed out that she had looked at the fraudsters information on 
Companies House and it matched what he had told her. He also pointed out that the 
fraudster gave Ms L information purporting to be from a solicitor which convinced her that 
she was dealing with a big property landlord. He also placed weight on the effort the 
fraudster had made to lure Ms L into trusting him.
Our investigator noted that a payment of this size was out of character for Ms L. He was 
surprised that HSBC did not contact her to discuss it further before it was made. He pointed 
out that Ms L was, by her own admission, very inexperienced in property and investment 
matters. He thought HSBC could have prevented Ms L from suffering financial harm by 
asking her questions about the payment she was intending on making and highlighting steps 
she could take to verify it further. He thought Ms L would have answered any questions the 
bank may have asked freely and it was more likely than not that Ms Ls answers would have 
given the bank cause for concern and uncovered the scam. To put things right, he thought 
HSBC should refund the remaining amount Ms L lost to the scam along with 8% simple 
interest from the date Ms L made the payment to the date of settlement. 
HSBC disagreed. It considered Ms L made the transfer of £5,000 without a reasonable basis 
for believing that the payment and beneficiary was genuine. It also suggested the facts of the 
case might separately justify a finding of gross negligence.
It says there were a series of highly concerning factors which should have alerted Ms L to 
the fact that this was a scam, including a return that was completely unrealistic. 
It was concerned that Ms L did not verify the details of the alleged investment beforehand 
and suggested that she should have visited the property and contacted the solicitors 
independently to confirm their legitimacy and involvement. It thought Ms L should have 
questioned why such a successful investor required a £5,000 loan and thought that the 20% 
return Ms L was promised for a short-term loan was highly suspicious. 
It thought there were obvious red flags with the situation that Ms L missed, especially when 
the fraudster told her there was a problem with his bank account and gave alternate account 
details. It said it did not consider Ms L to be vulnerable or unsophisticated, yet she failed to 
take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect herself. It suggested that Ms L had 
assumed the credentials of the scammer and simply taken things at face value. In view of 
this, HSBC did not believe Ms L met the requisite level of care expected of her under the 
CRM Code.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the full £5,000 Ms L 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
HSBC should, in any event, have intervened as the payment was unusual and out of 
character for Ms L. If it had done so, I am satisfied she would have explained the 
wider circumstances surrounding the payment. On balance, I think its more likely 
than not that the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
I understand Ms L has already been refunded 50% of the loss (£2,500) by HSBC. 
In the circumstances, HSBC should refund the remainder of the money she lost.
The money was transferred from Ms Ls current account. It is not clear how Ms L 
would have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so 
HSBC should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year from the date of her loss to the date of settlement.
Ive carefully considered the banks representations about whether Ms L had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transfer was for a legitimate investment. But they do not persuade me 
to reach a different outcome. In particular, I am not persuaded that Ms L failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Ms L did not act with gross 
negligence.
In reaching this decision, Ive had particular regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster 
for Ms L and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on her 
thoughts and actions. This was a sophisticated deception. Ms L met the fraudster in person 
on more than one occasion as well as communicating with him regularly over the phone and 
in instant messages. In those interactions, the fraudster manipulated Ms L to gain her trust. 
Ms L has described the fraudster as a charmer and I do not doubt that he was a 
charismatic individual. I am mindful that a dynamic established in person can be very 
powerful and that fraudsters are masterful at creating empathy and rapport in order to 
deceive victims. 
The bank has highlighted what it considers to be obvious red flags with the situation Ms L 
found herself in. It can be easy, with the benefit of hindsight, to wonder how certain aspects 
of a scam were successful. Looking at the paperwork now, the fraudsters business model 
and his proposal is vague. It is unclear exactly how Ms Ls £5,000 investment would grow by 
20% in two weeks. The agreement paperwork the fraudster sent to Ms L is entitled 
purchase of business agreement and refers to the sale of shares, but from what Ms L has 
described, she was not buying a business, nor was she purchasing shares. But the 
agreement also says that the purchaser will be entitled to 20% profit for the Investment. 
Ms L says the fraudster told her the 20% return was interest on the funds borrowed, which 
does not necessarily seem outlandish as short-term loans can be a very expensive form of 
borrowing. It seems more likely than not to me that the fraudster exploited Ms Ls 
inexperience in both property and investment matters by bamboozling her with explanations 
that sounded credible when they met in person. So I think HSBC needs to consider this payment in the wider context of the situation Ms L 
found herself in at that time. 
When Ms L made the payment, she was viewing the purported investment opportunity 
through a lens deliberately created by the fraudster. He had held himself out to be a very 
successful businessman. They had met in person on more than one occasion and his 
behaviour and lifestyle tied in with what hed said. I dont think the fraudsters demeanour on 
the occasions they had met gave Ms L any obvious reason to doubt his credentials. 
But I am also mindful that Ms Ls decision to proceed with the investment was not based on 
face value alone. Ms L explains that she did ask the fraudster questions about the proposal 
when they met in person and he provided her with an email from his solicitor to confirm to 
her he was involved in a lucrative property deal. Having seen a copy of this email, I think it 
was reasonable for Ms L to think it was genuine. 
It alludes to the fraudsters connection to a number of different projects and suggests that he 
was shortly due to receive a substantial amount of cash from the sale of a property that was 
well underway. I can see why Ms L would have felt reassured by it and I dont think it is 
proportionate to expect Ms L to have contacted the solicitor to verify the deal was authentic 
before proceeding. I am also mindful that Ms L was not purchasing the property outright 
herself, so I dont think the banks suggestion that she should have visited it carries much 
weight. 
In addition to this, the fraudster provided Ms L with copies of his identification documents. 
She did not ask for them, but I consider that the fraudster volunteering them freely in the 
manner that he did was a confidence trick aimed to reassure Ms L that he was open and 
transparent. Ms L has confirmed that the gentleman she met was the person in the 
photographs in both identification documents. Having seen the copy documentation, I think 
they acted to further strengthen the plausibility of the overall dynamic. Whilst Ms L had 
suggested she has since discovered the documentation is counterfeit, I think it would have 
been difficult for her to detect this at the time as they appear almost identical to genuine 
documents.
Im also mindful that Ms L did look at Companies House before making the payment to verify 
the information the fraudster had told her about himself and his company. Ms L has 
explained that the result she obtained from this check tied in with the information the 
fraudster had already told her. 
HSBC has far superior knowledge of what scams like this look and feel like so its not 
surprising that it can think of further steps and checks that Ms L could have taken to try and 
protect herself. It would have been readily apparent to HSBC that a problem with the 
fraudsters own bank account was suspicious, but I dont think Ms L would have appreciated 
the significance of this information and nor would I have fairly expected her to. 
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Ms L had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
situation was legitimate before she proceeded to make the payment. People dont want or 
expect to be scammed and I dont think Ms Ls actions before making the payment fell short 
of what it would be reasonable to expect her to do and consider in order to protect herself. 
The fact that the bank can think of additional things Ms L could have done does not mean 
that she did not do enough. This is a finely balanced case. HSBC considers Ms L failed to meet her requisite level of 
care because she did not conduct sufficient checks into the situation before making the 
payment. And, in the cold light of day, Ms L has explained that she feels sick thinking about 
the scam now and is not sure why she didnt question things more at the time. But Im 
mindful that Ms L was interacting with the fraudster in person. A fundamental feature of this 
particular scam was the emotional sophistication carefully created by the fraudster at the 
time. Hed created an environment designed to reassure and distract Ms L. Looking at 
everything in the round, all of the fraudsters actions seem to be calculated and designed to 
trick Ms L, making it much more difficult for the average consumer to obviously spot that they 
are interacting with someone with dishonest intentions. 
The CRM Code is designed to give people that have fallen victim to an APP scam the 
confidence that they will be reimbursed if they have acted appropriately. In all the 
circumstances of this complaint, I am not persuaded that Ms Ls failure to make the 
additional checks that HSBC believes she could have done, or actions she could have taken, 
should have led it not to fully reimburse her under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Overall, at the time Ms L made the payment, I consider she had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay; that the payment was in 
connection to a genuine investment and that the person with whom she was transacting was 
legitimate.
 
Putting things right
Ive decided that Ms L ought reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. 
I therefore direct HSBC to pay Ms L:
the remainder of the money she lost as part of the scam - £2,500  within 28 days of
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly
deductible) from the date HSBC declined Ms L made the payment to the
date of settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ls complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman