DRN-3665951
The complaint
Mr P complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly gave him a loan that he 
couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business throughout as AventCredit. 
What happened
In April 2015, Mr P applied for a loan with AventCredit. He was given a loan of £5,000 and 
the monthly repayment was £302.29. 
In 2021, Mr P complained to AventCredit to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should not be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
AventCredit will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ps complaint is that AventCredit made credit available that was unaffordable. Mr P fell 
into arrears on the account and later entered a payment plan before the debt was passed to 
a third party in 2020. I have to look at the information that was available to AventCredit at 
the time it made its lending decisions and not to use hindsight.
AventCredit has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr P provided at the time 
of application to assess affordability. But they also said they carried out a credit search in Mr 
Ps name to assess Mr Ps level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. And they checked Mr Ps income and expenditure by reviewing a bank 
statement at that time. Mr P was also asked to connect to an online income verification tool 
so that AventCredit could check doubly Mr Ps income. I think that that in this case 
AventCredit did not fail to perform proportionate checking.  
However, just because I think they carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean they made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. With the information it gathered AventCredit decided to agree to the 
loan of £5,000. I think the lending decision at that time was reasonable and Ill explain why I 
say that. 
Mr Ps credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean 
that Mr Ps management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or 
any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending 
decision was made, Mr P was affording his existing credit. And so, AventCredit were not put 
on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And whilst the declared purpose 
of the loan was for debt consolidation, I dont think that the information that AventCredit had 
at the time of the lending decision, would have lead them to feel they ought to make more 
searching enquiries of Mr Ps expenditure. 
But, considering the amount of the loan Mr P was taking, the amount he would have to 
repay for it in total and his existing borrowings, I think that AventCredit were right to make 
more searching enquiries into Mr Ps income. In so doing, they saw that the declared 
income provided by Mr P during the application was not brought into doubt by the online 
verification tool and was confirmed by the bank statement that Mr P provided. Having 
sought clarification of income and expenditure through Mr Ps bank statement, I do not 
believe that they saw anything that would have made the loan seem unreasonable. 
Mr P was disappointed with our investigators assessment as he told us he had other 
complaints that were upheld. But each case is decided on its own merits based on the 
particular circumstances of the borrowing, the checks performed at the time, and the actual 
circumstances of the consumer. 
In this case, I think that AventCredit, at the time they made their checks into the affordability 
of the lending to Mr P, made proportionate checks at the time they made their lending 
decision. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that AventCredit 
acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to 
think that that the credit AventCredit provided to Mr P was unreasonable.
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has invested 
time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr P to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. But having considered all the submissions in this case, 
particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman