DRN-4222234
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with how PSA Finance UK Limited treated her when she told it about 
financial difficulty in relation to a hire purchase agreement and with how it recorded 
information on her credit file.
What happened
In October 2022 Miss B signed a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. The car 
cost £16,100 and Miss B paid a deposit of £1,701. She was due to make regular repayments 
of £247.04 a month, starting in November 2022.
Before the first payment was due, Miss B contacted PSA and said she was in financial 
difficulty due to contracting an illness. She said she was signed off work and was only in 
receipt of statutory sick pay (SSP). She asked to start making repayments towards the 
agreement from the end of December 2022.
PSA said initially it would not offer a payment deferral, but asked Miss B to provide it with 
bank statements and an income and expenditure report (I & E). Miss B later provided these 
and PSA then explained to her that, having reviewed things, it appeared she was in receipt 
of an income for October, November and December 2022 rather than SSP. So it said it was 
right to not reschedule her payments.
Miss B responded to PSA and said she wasnt paid in full for November and December 
2022. And she said her bank statements didnt show her full outgoings as these were 
sensitive. 
PSA responded and said, in summary, that it still believed the payments wouldve been 
affordable as her bank statements showed a surplus. But, it offered to come to a repayment 
plan for any arrears. Miss B was unhappy with this and complained about the situation. She 
also said she was unhappy PSA had reported arrears on her credit file.
PSA sent Miss B a final response in March 2023. This said, in summary, that it wouldnt offer 
a payment deferral. It instead offered a payment plan, to allow Novembers payment to be 
split into three payments of around £83 a month. It said it was happy this was affordable for 
Miss B. But, it said Miss B had declined the repayment plan.
PSA also said it needed to report accurate information to credit reference agencies and so it 
wouldnt amend this.
Miss B then referred the complaint to our service. She said she had made all of the 
payments and PSA had been allocating them incorrectly to her account. She said she didnt 
have the funds to make additional payments when PSA said she did. And she said the 
situation had prevented her buying a house.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She explained, in summary, that she thought PSA had 
treated Miss B fairly when she made it aware of her financial difficulty. And she said it 
appeared PSA had correctly recorded information on her credit file.
Miss B responded and remained unhappy. She said she had never asked for a payment 
break, she asked that the first payment be made at the end of December 2022. She said she 
collected the car on 7 November 2022, so the first payment shouldve been taken a month 
after that. And she said she couldnt afford any extra outgoings from a repayment plan. 
Miss B also said our investigator should listen to all of the calls she had with PSA.
Our investigator said this didnt change her opinion. Miss B remained unhappy, so the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining to both parties that I will focus my decision on what I consider to 
be the key evidence and the crux of Miss B complaint. Ive carefully reviewed all of the 
information on the case, and where I havent commented on a specific point this isnt 
because I consider it unimportant, my approach just reflects the informal nature of our 
service. 
Miss B complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Miss Bs complaint against PSA.
Ive firstly considered whether Miss B shouldve been reasonably aware of when the 
payments were due to start. She says she expected this to be around 7 December 2022.
Ive considered what the agreement Miss B signed in October 2022 says here. This 
explained:
1 payment of £247.04 payable one month after the date of this agreement, followed by 46 
payments each of £247.04
Your monthly payment is due every month on the same date as your first payment
The above information is also echoed on the pre contract credit information which appears 
to have been printed on the same day as Miss B signed the agreement.
Ive also thought about a welcome letter that was sent to Miss B shortly after she agreed to 
the finance. This explained payments were due:
From 26/11/2022 47 payments of 247.04 GBP (payable on the same date each month)
So, I think this makes it clear Miss B was expected to make the first payment towards the 
agreement in November 2022. And Im satisfied when Miss B actually collected the car 
doesnt change this.
Ive then gone on to consider if PSA did enough to support Miss B when she told it about her 
financial difficulty. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explains in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) that firms should treat consumers in arrears or default with 
forbearance and due consideration. I should note when Miss B first contacted PSA, she 
wasnt in arrears as a payment hadnt fallen due, but Im satisfied I can still generally consider PSAs actions at this time. And the overall Principles for Business (PRIN) set out by 
the FCA would apply either way.
Its important to note here that Miss B is adamant she didnt ask for a payment break, as 
PSA said she did, and instead only asked for the start of the payments to be delayed. But, I 
think in essence both parties mean the same thing here. Miss B did ask for her payments to 
be delayed, but to a date over a month past the point where the first one was due. So, 
whatever way you describe this, Im satisfied Miss B asked for a monthly payment not to be 
taken in November 2022.
It appears Miss B initially told PSA that she was only receiving SSP. But, I agree with PSA 
that looking at her bank statements, it doesnt appear this was the case. Having reviewed 
the information Miss B provided to PSA, I can see why it reached the conclusion that the 
repayment in November 2022 wouldve been affordable for her. And, while she did receive a 
reduced salary in November and December 2022, PSA have correctly pointed out that there 
was a surplus from these incomes across this period left in her account. 
I appreciate Miss B says not all of her outgoings are on the accounts as these are sensitive. 
But, PSA could only review Miss B situation based on the information she provided to it.
Either way, and all of that being said, Id expect to see PSA help Miss W where she had 
financial difficulty due to unforeseen circumstances. But I need to consider the timings here, 
along with whats fair and reasonable. 
It appears Miss B already knew about the illness when she entered into the agreement. And 
looking at the contact notes from PSA, it appears Miss B told PSA she was already signed 
off work, due to this specific illness, when she took out the credit. As above, Im satisfied she 
wouldve understood at the time that payments were due to begin a month later. 
If this situation did cause Miss B temporary financial difficulty that led to issues with the 
November 2022 payment, I think its reasonable to assume she may have been aware of this 
prior to taking the finance.
Considering all of this, under the very specific circumstances of this complaint, I think PSAs 
approach of offering Miss B a repayment plan to make up the missed payment was 
reasonable under the circumstances and it didnt need to take further action such as allowing 
her a payment deferral.
Its also worth noting here that Miss B has mentioned PSA allocating payments incorrectly  
but Ive seen no evidence of this.
Ive then gone on to consider Miss B credit file. As above, I think Miss B shouldve been 
aware the initial payment was due and PSAs approach to the circumstances was 
reasonable. Im satisfied that Miss B didnt make the initial payment when it was due and so 
the account went into arrears. And I dont think PSA have acted unfairly by recording this on 
her credit file.
I believe Miss B may still be in arrears on the account. I would politely suggest to her that it 
might be prudent to contact PSA to discuss rectifying the situation. And Id politely remind 
PSA to treat her current situation with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman