DRN-2589325
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Carphone Warehouse Ltd mis-sold a mobile phone insurance 
policy to him.
What happened
Mr S took out a mobile phone insurance policy with Carphone Warehouse in March 2009 to 
cover a phone he had bought. A few months later he made an unsuccessful claim and then 
cancelled the policy in June 2010.
In August 2010 Mr S took out a second policy, which he cancelled in February 2012.
Mr S later complained, through his solicitors, that he was mis-sold these policies on the 
basis that:
the sales representative pressured him - he didnt need or want the policy, but relied
on the information provided by the sales representative who told him purchasing the 
policy was the best thing to do; and
he was given the impression he had to take the policy in order to receive technical 
support.
Carphone Warehouse investigated the complaint and issued its final response saying the 
complaint had been referred outside the relevant time limits. He then brought the compliant 
to this service, again with the assistance of his solicitors. 
Our investigator asked for more information about what Mr S recalled from the sale and what 
he thought Carphone Warehouse had got wrong. In response, his solicitors said the in store 
sales rep advised him taking out the policy would be the best thing to do. Mr S relied on the 
representations and bought the mobile phone, along with the insurance.
Our investigator thought the complaint was made in time as she considered Mr S would only 
reasonably have become aware of grounds to complain in March 2019, after the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) published a report into the way Carphone Warehouse had sold 
these policies.
The investigator said it was likely there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse 
assessed the suitability of this policy for Mr S. But she didnt think the policy was unsuitable 
for him. And she said even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide him with appropriate 
information about the policy, it was unlikely that having further details of what it covered 
would have affected his decision to take the policies. While she thought it was possible Mr S 
was told he could only get technical support if he bought the policy, she was satisfied he 
would have gone ahead even if things had been made clear. 
Mr Ss solicitors had raised some concerns about the way Carphone Warehouse dealt with 
the complaint. She explained that we couldnt look at complaint handling in isolation, as this 
would not be a complaint about the provision of or failure to provide a financial service. We 
could consider this where its ancillary to something else that we can investigate, but that 
wasnt the case here; the regulated activity relating to the sale of the policies had concluded 
many years before the complaint was made.
For these reasons the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Carphone Warehouse accepted the investigators view but Mr S didnt. His solicitors have 
made a number of points, including:
Mr S didnt want the policy and only bought it on the basis it was mandatory in order 
to get technical support;
he didnt request insurance, the FCA considered such customers to be impacted and 
Carphone Warehouse agreed with the FCA to offer redress to customers affected in 
this way;
any paperwork about whether the policy was compulsory was undermined by the 
objection handling by Carphone Warehouse staff;
the fact the policy provided cover for his phone and he had no alternative cover 
doesnt matter  what mattered was that Carphone Warehouse didnt make it clear 
he had a choice and if that had been made clear, he wouldnt have bought the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the complaint, Mr Ss solicitors have only referred to one policy. Although Mr S took out 
two policies with Carphone Warehouse, he hasnt explained which one he believes was mis-
sold, so I have considered both.
The FCA investigation found there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse sold insurance 
between 2008 and 2015. Mr Ss solicitors say the outcome of that investigation was that 
Carphone Warehouse agreed to provide redress to all affected customers and Mr S falls into 
that category, so he should be refunded the premiums paid for this policy.
In its report, the FCA agreed to reduce the fine imposed on Carphone Warehouse because it
had agreed to provide redress for affected customers. But that leaves the question of who is 
an affected customer. In addressing this question our normal approach is to consider:
whether there has been a failing by a business and, if so,
whether (and how) the person bringing the complaint has been affected by that.
If I conclude that there were flaws in a sales process but a consumer would still have bought 
the policy anyway, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of those failings. So I 
need to consider not just what Carphone Warehouse did, but whether Mr S would have 
acted differently but for any failing, and suffered any loss or harm as a result.
Mr Ss solicitors have referred to FCA guidance on complaints about payment protection 
insurance (PPI). Since that guidance was specifically aimed at PPI complaints, I dont 
consider it applies to the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the policy suitable?
When selling the policy, Carphone Warehouse was required to provide customers with clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the policy. And as this was an advised sale, it was 
also required to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr S. This would 
include thinking about whether he had a need for it and whether he had cover elsewhere that 
could provide the same benefits.The FCAs investigation concluded that sales consultants were not trained adequately to 
assess a customers needs and determine whether the insurance was suitable. So I think its 
likely there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse assessed whether the policy was 
suitable for Mr S.  But even if thats the case I dont think the policy was in fact unsuitable for 
his needs. 
The policy was recommended to Mr S when he bought a new mobile phone. It provided 
cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and breakdown. Ive seen nothing to show Mr S had 
alternative cover elsewhere. This suggests he had a potential need for the cover provided by 
this policies. Thats supported by the fact he sought to make a claim on the first policy a few 
months after taking it out in 2009. I appreciate that particular claim wasnt successful (the 
issue was covered by the manufacturers warranty). But it nevertheless shows it was 
potentially of use to him. And it doesnt look like Mr S was significantly affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover or that the policy was unaffordable for him. 
For these reasons, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Mr Ss needs or that it was 
wrong for Carphone Warehouse to recommend that he take it out. And for the same 
reasons, even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide him with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy, I dont think having further details of what it covered would have 
affected his decision making.
Mr Ss solicitors say none of that is relevant  the only thing that matters is that Carphone 
Warehouse didnt make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice, and if that had been made 
clear he wouldnt have bought the policy. So Ive gone on to consider that.
Was the optional nature of the policy made clear?
Mr S has said the sales consultant led him to believe the policy was compulsory; in that he 
had to buy it if he wanted technical support for his phone. But he hasnt provided any further 
evidence about what was said to make him think that. Carphone Warehouse says it would 
have provided leaflets which would have made it clear that standalone policies offering tech 
support were available.
The FCA report found that sales advisers focused on the technical support features offered 
by the insurance product. And they were trained in objection handling, which undermined 
the advised sales process. Given the findings of the report its possible Mr S was told he 
could only access technical services if he took out the policy, or that the adviser didnt make 
the distinction clear to him. And I think it likely he would have paid more attention to what he 
was told by the adviser than any leaflets available in store.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Mr S would have gone ahead with 
insurance cover even if things had been made clear. He was buying a new phone and didnt 
have another policy to cover it. He also used the policy later on to make a claim. I havent 
seen evidence that the only reason he took the insurance was to get tech support and that 
he wouldnt have bought the policy if the sales process had been clearer.
Ive also considered whether Mr S knew he could buy a phone without getting insurance. 
Although I havent seen the insurance certificate Mr S would have been required to sign at 
the time of sale, these documents did generally say the policy wasnt compulsory, and Mr S 
would have been required to sign alongside that to take out the policy. 
A signed insurance certificate doesnt necessarily mean the adviser made the optional 
nature of the policy clear. And the FCA report did refer to cancellation calls in which customers said theyd been told the insurance was compulsory. But Mr S hasnt provided 
detailed testimony that persuades me this actually happened in his case. 
Based on the information available to me, I dont have enough evidence to show Carphone 
Warehouse has done something wrong here. Mr Ss representatives say he was pressured 
into taking out the policy. But they havent provided any detail as to what made him think 
that, other than saying he was told it was mandatory to take the policy if he wanted technical 
support. To conclude that Mr S was pressured into taking out this policy, Id need to be 
satisfied that the way it was presented to him meant that, although he knew it was optional, 
in reality he had little choice but to take it out. I havent seen evidence showing that was the 
case here.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied Mr S was sold a policy that wasnt suitable for him or that 
he was inappropriately pressured into buying the policy, not knowing it was optional.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman