DRN-1597957
The complaint
Mr B complains about Clydesdale Financial Services Limiteds (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) decision to remove credit cards as a repayment method for his personal loan.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr B entered into a Fixed-sum loan agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. The crux of it was that Clydesdale agreed to loan Mr B an 
amount of money for the purchase of goods, and he agreed to repay that money. The terms 
of the agreement allowed a 12-month interest free period but after that Mr B was liable to 
pay interest. Repayment would have to be completed within the duration of the agreement of 
four years. At the time of taking out the agreement, Mr B was able to make repayments via 
credit card as well as other methods, and he'd agreed to make direct debit payments from 
after the first 12 months until the agreement end date.
In May 2019, Clydesdale took the decision to no longer accept credit cards as a method of 
repayments for loans such as Mr Bs. Mr B called Clydesdale on 29 November 2019 to repay 
the balance so as not to incur interest. He wanted to use his credit card, but he was told 
Clydesdale no longer accepted repayments by credit card.
Mr B didnt think it was fair for Clydesdale to remove credit card repayments as an option, 
and hes unhappy he wasnt informed of the change at the time. He's also unhappy that 
Clydesdale continued to chase him for payment despite agreeing an extension.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He felt Clydesdale hadnt acted unfairly in 
removing credit cards as an acceptable method of payment. He also felt Clydesdale had 
acted reasonably in allowing Mr B an extension of a further three months to clear the 
balance and paying him £25.
Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. While the case has been with us Mr B has now settled the loan and Clydesdale 
waived the early repayment charge and contributed an additional £50 compensation to 
recognise some trouble Mr B suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale said it took a decision to remove credit card payments for loans to ensure 
compliance with its responsibilities in relation to persistent debt and in response to changed 
industry standards in this area. 
Mr Bs contractual agreement was to repay the amount of the loan within the terms of the 
agreement (such as the specified monthly repayments over the specified duration). Although 
the agreement allowed Mr B to make repayments by credit card, it wasnt the only means by 
which repayment could be made. And while credit card may have been Mr Bs preferred or intended method of repayment, Im not satisfied the agreement is restricted to this method 
only. Mr Bs obligation was still to repay the money, and hed provided bank account details 
for repayments to be taken after the interest-free period. 
However, as the terms and conditions of the agreement permitted credit card payments, I 
have thought carefully about the impact on Mr B about the change that Clydesdale 
implemented. Where things stand now is that Mr B has repaid the loan (without interest) and 
been compensated in so far as the contractual early repayment charge has been waived, 
and hes been given the equivalent of £75 compensation. In total this equates to just over 
£100 and I'm satisfied it fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused.
Clydesdale did cause confusion in making a change to the terms and conditions and only 
attempting to communicate this to Mr B shortly before the interest-free period ended. There 
was a lack of clarity at points about what length of extension to the interest-free period 
Clydesdale was giving Mr B, and he received letters stating he was in default. But 
Clydesdale has confirmed to us that it has acted to remove any adverse information about 
arrears and late payments from Mr Bs credit file and I think this is appropriate.
Overall, while Clydesdale changed the terms and conditions mid-term and could have given 
more clarity, the overall outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be 
asking Clydesdale to do anything else. In reaching this outcome I have considered;
Mr B has not paid any interest
Clydesdale paid £25 compensation followed by £50 towards the loan agreement
Waived the early repayment charge of £29
Ensured no negative markers on Mr Bs credit file.
 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I don't require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do 
anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman