DRN-4305317
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wouldnt refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Miss S says:
Miss S is represented by a third-party claims firm.
She is a student living on a student income. She inherited some money from her late mother 
after she sadly passed away. 
Miss S had a contact (who I will call A) on her snapchat who advertised bitcoin investment  
he showed he had made a lot of money by investing in bitcoin. Miss S messaged one of her 
friends who said he knew A and said he was legitimate. A then gave Miss R a link to create 
an app in order for her to make the transfers to a crypto platform. The app was titled BitXXX 
(which I will call B).
Miss R conducted research into BitXXX and saw it had good reviews. She was 
inexperienced as an investor but felt the opportunity was a genuine one. She completed 
various KYC and anti-money laundering checks  which also suggested B was legitimate. 
She made an initial payment of £25 and then withdrew it  which also suggested to her that 
B was legitimate. Then, Miss R made four further payments totalling £9,800 on 18 January 
2023:
Date Time Method Payee Amount
18 January 2023 11.55 Faster Payment BitXXX £25 (repaid)
18 January 2023 12.27 Faster Payment BitXXX £2,000
18 January 2023 14.07 Faster Payment BitXXX £2,400
18 January 2023 15.41 Faster Payment BitXXX £2,000
18 January 2023 16.01 Faster Payment BitXXX £3,400
Total £9,800
Miss S said she could see the live trade information and that bitcoin investments were doing 
well. The website seemed authentic. Miss S realised she had been scammed when the 
scammer (A) then ignored her and stopped replying to her snapchat messages. Miss S then 
contacted her friend and he said his snapchat had been hacked  so it wasnt him who had 
supported A. Miss S had been sending money to a cloned website, and not to the bitcoin 
company she thought she was investing with.
Miss S said Monzo should refund the money. She said Monzo shouldve been aware of the 
prevalence of such scams, and intervened, but didnt. She reported the scam to Monzo on 
19 January 2023.
Because of what happened, Miss S lost all the money her mother left to her  so she feels 
shes let her mother down. Shes been having sleepless nights and is now having to look for 
part time work (alongside her studies) to enable her to live.
What Monzo said:
Monzo said theyd reviewed the scam and didnt refund any money. The money was sent 
from Miss S Monzo account to her own crypto wallet. And so Miss S should get in touch with 
that provider  as it was from there that the transfers were made to B. Because Monzo took 
until 7 April 2023 to provide a response, they paid compensation of £20.
Our investigation so far:
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Monzo should refund the last two 
payments of £2,000 and £3,400, plus 8% per annum simple interest. She said:
- The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code doesnt apply as Miss S sent 
money to an account in her own name.
- The first few payments didnt look concerning or out of character  and we cant 
expect every payment to be reviewed. 
- But by the fourth payment (of £2,000), Monzo shouldve intervened. By then, it was 
the fourth consecutive payment to a crypto currency platform and collectively Miss S 
had then sent £6,400 to B  and on the same day.
- If Monzo had then intervened, it was likely the scam wouldve been uncovered. 
Because the payments were to a crypto platform, further questions about that 
shouldve been asked, e.g. how she came about the opportunity. 
- This wouldve revealed Miss S had no investment experience; that she was 
introduced via snapchat; and this was a crypto investment. Monzo were well 
positioned to provide effective scam warnings, but didnt.
- She didnt think that Miss S should bear some responsibility by way of a deduction.
Miss S accepted the findings, but Monzo didnt agree. They said:
- They couldnt be expected to intervene in every payment.
- It was unwise to rely on a snapchat introduction to make investments.
- The offer was too good to be true.
- Miss S was making payment to her own account - her crypto wallet. And the losses 
she incurred were because of the payments from her wallet to B.
- Intervention wouldnt have made a difference as Miss S had been led to believe she 
was dealing with a legitimate crypto platform.The complaint has therefore come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss S has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Miss S didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. Monzo hasnt signed up to the Code, but they follow its principles. That 
said, it applies to faster payments made to another UK beneficiary and in this case, the 
payments were made by Miss S to her own crypto wallet. So it doesnt apply in this case. I 
have therefore looked at this complaint using general Authorised Push Payment 
considerations. 
I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss S when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payments were of a sufficient size and was out of 
character with how Miss S normally used her account  then we would expect Monzo to 
have intervened and contacted Miss S.
 I looked at Miss S account from June 2022, and its fair to say that the payments were 
unusual compared to the way in which she normally used her account  which was to make 
day to day expenditures of low value. There were some faster payments, but all were for, or 
below £1,000. 
Payments £25, £2,000 and £2,400:Ive then considered the initial payments and here -  theres a balance to be struck: Monzo 
has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, 
but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. So, in this case, I think Monzo acted reasonably in processing the first 
three payments.
Payments £2,000 and £3,400:
Monzo have argued that they didnt need to intervene in any of the payments, including the 
fourth and fifth payment  for the same reasons. But I dont agree. I say that because:
- The payments were to  payee which was clearly associated with crypto investment; 
this was a red flag.
- By the fourth payment there was a pattern of a series of payments to the same crypto 
platform.
- They were all made in quick succession, on the same day, and within four hours of 
each other.
- They were each funded by transfers into the account from Miss S  and drained the 
account of funds each time.
Therefore these were all characteristics of a scam. And Monzo  as the expert here, 
shouldve been reasonably aware of that. There was enough going on  to suggest that 
Monzo ought reasonably be expected to have sent a tailored message to Miss S to highlight 
the potential scam  or call her. But they didnt.
If Monzo had done so, they wouldve likely found out that :
- The introduction was via snapchat.
- How she had been given the link to set up the app.
- Miss S was using all her money to invest.
- She had no experience of investing in crypto.
- She wasnt aware of the risks involved.
Having established these things, Monzo wouldve been well placed to advise Miss S of the 
risks she was taking. Ive seen nothing in the correspondence between Miss S, A and B to 
suggest shed been coached as to how to respond to any contact from Monzo  so I think its 
reasonable to say that the scam wouldve been uncovered and the last two payments not 
made.
Contributory Negligence:
Ive considered whether Miss S should bear some of the loss on payments four and five. I 
accept it was unwise to accept an introduction via snapchat. But other than that, Im 
persuaded that Miss S did all the research she could.
She sourced online Trust Pilot reviews, and they were positive. Her friend vouched for A. But 
in this case  she was sent a link to set up an app which accessed a cloned crypto website 
which purported to be the genuine one. 
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Monzo took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. I couldnt see they did take any action  although the online the chats with Miss S said they would. But because here  the 
funds were moved from Miss S crypto wallet to B immediately she sent the payments, its 
likely there was nothing Monzo couldve done to get any money back in any case.
 
Putting things right
So, on balance, and in the circumstances of this complaint, I agree that Monzo should refund 
the fourth and fifth payments, plus interest at the statutory rate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
- Refund £2,000 and £3,400, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of 
the payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman