DRN-1372266
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has settled a claim made on his 
car insurance policy following an accident in January 2019. Hes unhappy that Aviva has 
accepted liability for the claim.
All references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mr A was in a car accident in January 2019. About the accident, he says:
After merging and slowing down behind a vehicle to turn right onto an A road, he was 
undercut by the third party which was travelling at such a speed. 
The third party was across two lanes and collided into him after hed indicated, 
changed lanes and then slowed down behind a vehicle in his Iane. 
He was stationary behind another vehicle, in his lane and wasnt merging. 
The third party driver is to blame and this is supported by his last MOT, the damage 
to his car and the third partys van and his diagram of what happened. 
 
Mr A made a claim to Aviva. Taking everything into account, Aviva thought the damage and 
images supplied by Mr A were more supportive of the third partys version of what 
happened. As a result, it agreed to accept liability for the claim. 
Mr A was unhappy with this and raised a number of points about the damage to the vehicles 
which he says show that he wasnt to blame. Aviva explained that it had considered the 
damage to both vehicles but didnt find that it supported Mr As version of events. It said:
It wouldve expected Mr As wing mirror to have been pushed forward rather than 
folded in under Mr As version of what happened.
The damage to the third parties van doesnt start until the middle of it suggesting they 
were slightly ahead of Mr As vehicle at the original point of impact.
The images sent to it by Mr A to support his version of events dont show that he was 
fully in one lane and that the third party was in two lanes. Instead, they show Mr As 
car was at an angle.
Whilst Mr As shock absorber is damaged, this couldve been caused by either 
version of events. But, also, it might have been damaged before the accident. 
 
Aviva went on to explain it thought it likely - if this matter was to proceed to court - that a 
judge would find in favour of the third party. This is because Mr A admits to changing lanes 
and also said that he hadnt seen the third party before the collision. 
Mr A complained to Aviva as he was unhappy with this. Aviva didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
It explained that it had made the correct decision on liability but confirmed it was looking to 
defend the personal injury claims from the third partys insurer as it shared Mr As concerns 
about them. Mr A came to our service. He says Aviva is taking the easy route out and has 
failed to fully investigate this matter.Our investigator looked into matters and explained Mr As policy stated it was entitled to 
settle the claim as it saw fit. And that it wasnt our services role to make a decision on 
liability. Instead, it was our role to consider whether Aviva had fairly considered everything in 
reaching the decision it had. He thought it had so he didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr A disagrees. He says the evidence he sent the insurer - a diagram of what happened, his 
first-hand experience of it and that the third partys van went into his car at a 45 degree 
angle - supports his version of events that it was the third party who was to blame. 
This matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
I know that Mr A has very strong views about what happened in the incident and says the 
third party was to blame. Hes also given evidence and submissions which he says support 
his view. But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only 
a court can consider. What Im deciding here is whether Aviva has acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and dealt with the claim fairly when making its own 
decision on liability.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr A that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the agreement between 
Aviva and Mr A. These allow Aviva to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesnt 
need Mr As approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a 
third party. Aviva also isnt obliged to take a case to court even if its mentioned the 
possibility of doing this or the policy holder wants it to. Its also allowed to consider the 
potential costs and risks of proceeding to court. That might mean it makes a decision the 
policy holder disagrees with, as has happened here.
Taking everything into account, I think Aviva investigated matters reasonably. Aviva will have 
experience of how courts view such matters, and the likelihood of success in pursuing a 
legal case. It considered the vehicles damage and what each party said. There werent any 
independent witnesses or CCTV. And, in the absence of any independent evidence 
supporting Mr As version of events, Im not persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when it decided to settle the claim by accepting accept full liability for it. I say this particularly 
when Avivas assessment of the independent evidence available is that it supports the third 
parties version of what happened.
I understand Mr A feels very strongly about this and I know he believes the third party to be 
totally at fault for what happened. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide 
liability. What Ive looked at is whether Aviva has followed the policy terms and exercised its 
discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the case as it has done here. And Im 
satisfied it has. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further in relation to this matter.I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. And I understand hes mentioned taking 
the matter to court. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his 
dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman