DRN-4425548
The complaint
Mr V complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has treated him unfairly in relation to a finance agreement taken out in his 
name.
What happened
I set out below a summary of Mr Vs version of events and also a summary of BPFs version 
of those same events
Mr Vs version of events
Mr V complains that he is being held to account for a finance agreement that he did not take 
out. Rather, his former wife applied for the loan in his name without his knowledge. The 
finance agreement was used to purchase an item of furniture which is still in his home.
Mr V adds that he never signed the finance agreement. The payments for the finance 
agreement came out of a joint account, that he held jointly with his former wife. However, Mr 
V did not know about these payments. When Mr V and his wife split up the payments 
stopped, and arrears built up and BPF contacted him about this, it was only at this point that 
Mr V found out about the agreement.
Mr V complains that in late 2022, BPF agreed to put the account on hold , but it then did not 
keep to this and instead defaulted the account. Mr V objected to this and BPF apologised 
and said it would immediately remove the default, but it did not. In the meantime Mr V 
wanted to take out finance with a third party supplier. Mr V believes he ended up paying 
more for this finance than he should have done simply due to the default. 
Mr V wanted the default removed from his credit file. But BPF told him it would only do this if 
he cleared the arrears all in one go. Therefore, Mr V felt obliged to clear the arrears which he 
did under protest. But paying the arrears caused Mr V to experience financial difficulties. 
Further, Mr V explained he has not received the level of customer service he is entitled to 
expect from BPF, and he gave several examples of this in addition to the ones Ive already 
mentioned. Amongst other things, Mr V talked about BPF not following things up when it said 
it would and not calling him back when promised.
Mr V considers he should have had to pay nothing towards the finance agreement. In 
addition he wants 
to be fully compensated for the extra costs with the third-party credit agreement. 
£250 per hour for all the time he spent dealing with BPF.
an apology.
BPFs version of events
BPF says Mr V took out a fixed sum loan with it in October 2020 to buy an item of furniture.  
The total amount of credit provided was £2,456.
The loan was taken out in store by Mr V, and he supplied his driving licence to prove his 
identity. Repayments were made from Mr Vs joint account.
Mr V began to contact BPF in January 2022 about the finance agreement and about 
payments to it. However, it was not until April 2023 that Mr V said that he had not taken out 
the agreement, and he had not known it had been taken out in his name and he wanted this 
investigated. BPF considers Mr Vs memory about applying for the loan is not accurate. BPF 
said this because not only did he not complain about this straightaway, but in October 2023 
Mr V told BPF he had applied for the finance but was declined for it, as far as he was aware.
BPF did not agree it was likely that Mr Vs former wife applied for the finance without his 
permission. It followed it did not think it had done anything wrong in chasing Mr V for the 
arrears.
That said, BPF agreed it had told Mr V in late 2022  it would put a temporary hold on his 
account and had not done so. BPF also agreed this was not the level of customer service Mr 
V was entitled to expect. However, at this point it had not defaulted Mr Vs account, but it 
had asked the credit reference agencies to register late payment markers on his credit file. 
But it had not explained this to Mr V at the time.
However, BPF did default Mr Vs account in January 2023 because Mr V had not paid his 
arrears. Again BPF did not agree it had done anything wrong by defaulting the account. But 
when it spoke to Mr V in May 2023, it had had a change of heart about this point. As a result, 
it agreed to ask the credit reference agencies to remove the default from Mr Vs credit file 
and mark the debt as settled. However, that did not go far enough for Mr V, so in addition 
BPF also agreed to pay Mr V £650. Mr V asked that the £650 be paid by cheque. Mr V 
agreed that if BPF did all of this, then this would bring an end to his complaint.
In addition to the £650 cheque which was on its way at the time (Mr V has now confirmed 
hes received the cheque), BPF has given Mr V the following redress for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service:
A payment of £50.00 on 13 December 2022.
A payment of £50.00 on 18 April 2023.
A payment of £68.22 on 12 May 2023.
A payment of £75.00 on 15 May 2023.
An account balance credit £614.06 on 12 May 2023.
Therefore, by BPFs reckoning Mr V has received redress totaling £1,507.28.
BPF thought it had done enough and therefore it was not prepared to do anything further.
What happened once Mr Vs complaint was with us
Dissatisfied with BPFs response Mr V complained to our service.
Once Mr Vs complaint was with us both Mr V and BPF provided further information. Ive 
summarised what they said below.
Mr V told us about a call he had with BPF. Ill call this the arrears call. Mr V had many 
misgivings about the arrears call. These misgivings included that the person to whom he 
spoke told him they were a manager when there were not. That person said BPF would only 
ask the credit reference agencies to remove the default if Mr V first paid the arrears. Mr V 
considers BPF put him under undue pressure to pay off the arrears by saying this. That 
payment then tipped Mr V into financial difficulties which BPF ought to have known would 
happen. 
In any event, Mr V repeated that the default should not have been registered in the first 
place because Mr V had asked for the account to be put on hold and this had been agreed. 
Moreover, BPF had not treated the complaint as a complaint about a disputed transaction 
when it should have done.  Mr V saw this as being yet another customer service failing on the part of BPF.
Mr V also repeated his earlier stance.
BPF saw the arrears call very differently to Mr V. Specifically, BPF told us Mr V had insisted 
on paying the arrears. It had told him not to do this if he was in financial difficulty. But it had 
been important to Mr V that the arrears should be paid so that the default could be removed 
so BPF had taken a payment of £545 to pay off the arrears. But later BPF thought the better 
of this and the £650 includes a refund of the £545. To date BPF have asked the credit 
reference agencies to mark the loan as settled and waived the balance. Moreover, BPF is no 
longer pursuing Mr V for the loan. BPF said its employee did not describe themselves as a 
manager in the arrears call.
Our investigator did not recommend upholding Mr Vs complaint. He explained that BPF had 
already made a fair offer and paid the redress therefore there was nothing further he could 
fairly ask BPF to do to settle the complaint.
BPF accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr V didnt. In short Mr V rejected our 
investigators recommendation for the following reasons. Mr V reiterated his previous stance. 
Mr V underlined that from his perspective it is vitally important that we should listen to the 
recording of the arrears call.
Mr V asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mr V wanted me to listen to the recording of the arrears call rather than rely 
on the summary of that call that BPF provided. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service 
is independent of both consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This 
means that we dont act for consumers or businesses, nor do we take instructions either 
from consumers or businesses or allow either party to direct the course of our investigations; 
were we to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. It follows that it is 
up to us to determine what evidence we need or review in order to investigate a complaint. 
So although Ive noted what Mr V has said about that arrears call I dont think I need to insist 
on being provided with a recording of the call in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Why BPF did not act incorrectly by pursuing Mr V for the debtMr V tells us he did not enter into the agreement. And I would not find it fair and reasonable 
to say BPF can pursue Mr V for finance he knew nothing about, did not enter into or did not 
give authority (whether express or seeming) for someone to enter into for him. So Ive looked 
closely at this point.
I note Mr V does not dispute that his driving licence was used to prove his identity. The 
licence includes a photograph and Mr Vs details so I think it is unlikely that if Mr Vs ex wife 
had tried to use it without Mr V being present that the application would have gone ahead. I 
cant discount that Mr Vs former wife might have taken someone to the store to impersonate 
him, but I find that far-fetched in the circumstances. I think the more prosaic scenario is also 
the more likely scenario that is that Mr V was present.
Moreover, the payments came out of an account that Mr V held jointly, therefore I think if 
those payments were something he knew nothing about he might have queried this sooner.
Further, BPFs notes which Ive no reason to doubt on this point show that at first and for 
many months Mr V did not say that he had not entered into the agreement, I think that would 
have been the first thing he would have said if this was not his agreement. 
In addition, I am persuaded that Mr V did tell BPF he had applied for the finance but was 
refused. To an extent I think Mr V has provided contradictory recollections about who applied 
for the finance agreement. That in turn has had an adverse impact on the weight Ive felt 
able to place on Mr Vs version of events.
For all these reasons, I find BPF has done nothing wrong in pursuing Mr V for the debt under 
this agreement.
Financial difficulties
Mr V indicates that paying the arrears caused him financial difficulties. If Mr V was in 
financial difficulties and couldnt meet his liabilities under the agreement then BPF should 
have dealt with him with forbearance and due consideration. Mr V lays great emphasis on 
what he sees as BPF going back on its word and pursuing him for the debt even when it had 
agreed to put the account on hold. BPF agrees it did this. But I think this point is something 
of a red herring. I say this because I would not expect a business to take a payment that a 
debtor just could not afford to make regardless of whether it had put the account temporarily 
on hold or not. Its accepting a payment that Mr V could not afford that is the problem here I 
think. 
That said BPF has already done what Id expect it to do; it has acknowledged its mistake, 
refunded the money and paid Mr V compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr V indicates that he accepted BPFs offer of settlement under duress. But duress does not 
mean being in a weak bargaining position or being in financial difficulties. Nor does it mean 
having to choose between two or more unattractive options. Neither does it mean a business 
explaining that it is not going to remove a default that it considers it has the right to have 
registered unless the arrears are paid. Duress means being forced  typically by physical 
threats or some other form of undue pressure - to agree to something against ones will. 
Nothing BPF did equated to this, as far as I can tell.
Moreover, there were a lot of things going on in the background in Mr Vs life during this time 
according to the information Ive seen. It seems that it was important to Mr V to not have a 
default on his credit file at this time. So I think on balance Mr V would have paid off the 
arrears regardless.
It follows I dont agree that Ive any proper basis to uphold this part of Mr Vs complaint.
The default and the third party finance
Ive also thought about whether BPF was in the wrong for asking the credit reference 
agencies to register the default when it knew Mr V had asked it to put the account on hold 
and it had agreed. The whole putting the account on hold agreement was based on very shifting sands though. 
I say this because I can see from BPFs notes, which I find are likely to be accurate, Mr V 
kept on asking for the hold to be extended on the basis there was going to be a court 
settlement after a hearing on an unrelated matter that would free up some cash to pay off 
the finance. But each month the date of the hearing seemed to change and so Mr V asked 
for further extensions. This went on for months. A temporary hold to allow a very specific 
event to occur on a very specific date was one thing. A temporary hold that was predicated 
on a hearing whose date kept on changing was a very different matter. In the circumstances, 
given that the arrears were building up, Mr V seemed to have no immediate prospect of 
paying off the arrears and the date of the hearing kept on changing, I think it was reasonable 
for BPF to ask the credit reference agencies to register the default.
What Ive said above means that even if Mr V had to pay more for his finance with the third 
party due to the default that is not something that BPF has to compensate Mr V for. In any 
event, even if I did agree that BPF should not have gone ahead with the default (which I 
dont), Ive no way of telling from the information Ive got if Mr V did have to pay more for his 
finance with the third party due to the default on his credit file. It follows that Ive no proper 
basis for saying BPF has to compensate him for this.
Distress and inconvenience
BPF and Mr V both agree that at times BPF did not give Mr V the level of customer service 
he was entitled to expect. 
That said, I dont think BPF acted incorrectly in not treating Mr Vs complaint as a disputed 
transaction straightaway, given the information Mr V provided.
Ive not seen anything that suggests Mr V ought to be paid £250 per hour for his time spent 
on the complaint, I cant see why this would be an appropriate yardstick.
Moreover, BPF has already awarded much more compensation than I would have asked it to 
do.
It follows I have no proper basis to say BPF must take further action here.
For completeness Ill add an observation, Mr V has the sofa, he has had substantial 
compensation from BPF and has ended up paying much less for the sofa than I he originally 
contracted to pay. 
For all of these reasons I find that Ive no proper basis for saying that BPF has to do 
anything further to settle the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman