DRN-3422383
The complaint
Mr B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to
him. 
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 that ELL provided to
Mr B on 2 April 2015. The monthly repayments were £147.67 and the total repayable
was £3,544.08.
Mr B says the lender did not complete proportionate checks to make sure the loan was 
affordable.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought ELL shouldnt have given the
loan. ELL disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr B. It asked for his monthly income and checked this against recent payslips. It
estimated his living costs using national averages. It carried out a credit check to understand
his credit history and his existing credit commitments. It reviewed a recent bank statement to 
check other credit commitments. Based on these checks ELL thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
ELL could see from its checks that Mr B would be left with less than £50 disposable income 
each month. I dont think this was enough to cover any unplanned and seasonal costs during 
the 24-month term of this loan. In addition, by approving this loan it increased the amount of
monthly income Mr B would need to spend on servicing his debt to around a third of his 
incomings. So I dont find its decision was borrower-focused. Mr B was on a relatively low 
income and, given the circumstances set out above, I think ELL ought to have realised there 
was a risk Mr B would be unable to repay this loan sustainably over the two-year term of the 
loan.
ELL argues that we cannot solely consider disposable income as it had allocated £500 for 
Mr Bs living expenses, as well as the cost of his existing credit. But we would expect a 
lender to consider an applicants living costs  in addition to making sure an applicant would 
be left with a reasonable level of monthly disposable income. And that was not the case 
here.
It also says that his bank statement showed he had an average credit balance of around 
£400. But this was only one month, so might not have been representative. And ELL opted 
to use averages for outgoings in its affordability assessment - thats what its lending decision 
was based on. So I dont think it can fairly now defend its decision using a different 
approach. It says there were no signs of financial stress and I agree there was no adverse 
data on Mr Bs credit check, but I think this loan created the risk that Mr B would go on to 
struggle financially for the reasons set out above. And ELL need to consider the likely impact 
on Mr B over the loan term to meet its regulatory obligations.ELL also argues Mr B made all his payments on time, but it does not know how he funded 
his repayments (except the early settlement) so this does not change my conclusion.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr B.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should
not have been provided to him so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on the loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr B a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman