DRN-2300078
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the lack of information given by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) when dealing with a replacement car following an accident. She says she wasnt 
given enough information to make an informed choice and has now been left with hire car 
charges. Mrs B says the situation has caused her stress and has had an impact on her 
mentally. She wants Admiral to settle these charges and to pay her compensation. She is 
also concerned about receiving court papers direct from third-party solicitors and feels 
Admiral are responsible.
What happened
Mrs B was involved in a car accident with a third party which she reported to Admiral in 
October 2018. During this call, Mrs B gave details of the accident which led to a side impact. 
Mrs B said she wasnt at fault but that the third party felt she was. Admiral explained that, as 
Mrs B wasnt at fault for the accident, she had two options for her car repairs. The first option 
was a non-fault service and the second was a claim against her policy. They explained the 
non-fault service is provided by another, separate company, which I will call company A, 
and they would provide a replacement car. They said, with this option, no excess needs to 
be paid and her no-claims bonus wouldnt be affected. Admiral then asked So, would you 
like to use the non-fault service and go with the first option? Mrs B agreed to this and was 
transferred to company A. Mrs B then signed an agreement with company A for a hire car.
 
Mrs B then received a hire car from company A. The car was collected back from her 
because company A then received dashcam footage which suggested she might be at fault. 
Admiral explained to Mrs B that if company A receive any evidence which shows that liability 
might be in dispute then they would look to cancel their services as they only deal with non-
fault accidents. Admiral then checked the position with company A who explained that they 
had received dashcam footage which they hadnt yet reviewed but because theres a dispute 
they wouldnt take on the claim. Mrs B then made a claim against her policy. 
 
Mrs B then received an invoice for £1,816.40 from company A for the car hire charges. Mrs 
B spoke to Admiral and explained she shouldnt have to pay for this because shes insured. 
Admiral telephoned company A and queried why Mrs B was being charged for the hire car. 
Company A explained that dashcam footage showed that Mrs B was at fault so, had they 
known the correct circumstances, they wouldnt have provided their services. 
There was then further communications between Mrs B and Admiral during which Mrs B said 
she wasnt happy as she had been told she would only have to pay the excess. Mrs B also 
complained that she was unsure whether Admiral or company A were dealing with her claim. 
Mrs B explained a replacement car was mentioned during the first conversation which she 
expected was a courtesy car. She said it was never explained to her that she would have to 
pay for the car if she was found to be at fault.
 
Admiral explained that Mrs B had given a clear indication that she wasnt at fault and the 
accident had been caused by the third party. They felt they werent responsible for the car 
hire charges on the basis that they presented Mrs B with non-fault options and guidance 
based on the version of events she gave them. They also pointed out that Mrs B had 
accepted the services of company A based on the information company A had provided. 
They didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Company A then passed the matter to a debt collector who wrote to Mrs B requesting 
payment of the hire car charges.
 
A further issue arose when Mrs B received court papers relating to a claim being made by 
the third-party and Judgment having been made against her. Admiral explained to Mrs B the 
court papers related to the third-partys claim for personal injury. Admiral said they told the 
third-party solicitors to send any further correspondence to Admirals solicitors but they 
ignored this and issued the claim against Mrs B directly. The Judgment was later set aside. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and felt that Admiral hadnt provided balanced 
information, more specifically, that Admiral discussed the positive points of proceeding with 
the non-fault service but nothing about the possible negative points. Our investigator felt that 
Admiral should pay £150 compensation to Mrs B. Our investigator didnt feel Admiral should 
pay the car hire charges because company A is a separate business and Mrs B accepted 
their services based on the information they provided in their terms and conditions. 
Admiral responded to our investigators view and explained they remained satisfied they had 
used the correct scripting when advising Mrs B about her options. They said the scripting 
has been in place for many years and has never been disagreed with by our service. They 
offered £150 as a gesture of goodwill to settle the matter. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs 
B and Admiral on 28 September 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
I understand why insurance companies use a non-fault service and how this is of 
benefit to customers. So, the first point I need to consider here is whether it was 
appropriate for Admiral to refer Mrs B to the non-fault service. Ive listened to the 
initial call between Mrs B and Admiral and note Mrs B gave an account where she 
said she believed she wasnt at fault. There are however points raised in the call 
which shouldve led Admiral to question whether the non-fault service was 
appropriate for Mrs B.
 
The first point relates to the third partys view on fault. During the call Mrs B explains 
that the third party felt she was at fault and the discussion continues with Admiral 
asking Mrs B why the third party felt she was at fault. The important point here 
though is that Admiral are made aware that a dispute exists. During a later call 
between Mrs B and Admiral, they explained to her that company A had collected the 
hire car because they had received information which led to a dispute in liability so 
company A had to cancel their services as they only deal with non-fault accidents. Its 
important to note here that, at this point, the dashcam footage hadnt been viewed 
and no assessment had taken place on liability. It was only the case that a dispute on 
liability existed and this was enough for company A to cancel their services.
 
Taking this into account, I think its reasonable to conclude that a dispute already 
existed at the point Mrs B reported the accident to Admiral as she made them aware 
that the third party felt she was at fault. 
I take on board Admirals comments about trusting Mrs Bs account to have been 
accurate but the issue here is that they were made aware there was a dispute on 
liability and, given the advice they gave to Mrs B later about company As service, 
they shouldve known that this dispute might lead to company A cancelling their 
services. 
The second point relates to the description of the accident given by Mrs B. She refers 
to a side impact collision while travelling along a slip road. I feel its reasonable for 
accident circumstances like this to create some doubt, particular when an insurer is 
made aware a third party is disputing liability. A side impact is likely to create some 
doubt despite the account given by an insured. So, in this case, even without any 
dashcam footage, knowing the accident circumstances and the third partys view, 
Admiral shouldve known it was possible this claim might not be suitable for company 
As non-fault service.
 
Its clear from the call between Admiral and company A that a key factor, if not the 
only factor, that company A takes into account when deciding whether to offer its 
services is the position on liability. And, if there is even a suggestion of a dispute, 
regardless of whether the grounds for dispute are proven, they will end their service. 
They will only deal with a claim where there is no dispute. So, given how fundamental 
this is to company A, I wouldve expected Admiral, being the party who referred Mrs 
Bs claim, to have been aware of this key requirement. On this basis, I dont think it 
was appropriate for Admiral to have offered the non-fault service to Mrs B.
  
I can see that Mrs B says she wasnt aware she was getting a hire car as opposed to 
a courtesy car. I agree Admiral did mention hire car and referred to the non-fault 
service being operated by a separate company. But there are a number of points in 
the call which I think couldve caused some confusion. In particular, there were 
several points where Admiral used we and well when talking about the next steps. 
So, taking this into account, I can see why Mrs B had the impression the car hire was 
something her policy covered. Its also clear from calls between Mrs B and her 
husband and Admiral that they thought the hire car was covered under the policy. 
When discussing the car hire charges they received from company A, they, on a 
number of occasions, made reference to the fact that they have insurance in place 
and this is what Admiral should be covering. In addition to this, the complaints raised 
by Mrs B and addressed by Admiral also show that Mrs B wasnt sure who was 
dealing with her claim.    
Admiral say that, by signing the terms and conditions, Mrs B accepted company As 
service so they arent responsible for the car hire charges. I accept it being 
everyones responsibility to read things carefully before signing an agreement and 
company As terms and conditions do refer to a hire car and the circumstances Mrs B 
would be responsible for the charges. But, given that Ive concluded the non-fault 
option shouldnt have been offered to Mrs B, it follows that she wouldnt have found 
herself in the position of signing these documents.  
Mrs B has also complained about receiving court papers showing Judgment made 
against her. I can understand why this worried Mrs B but from the information Ive 
seen I cant hold Admiral responsible for this. Admiral say they told the third-party 
solicitors to send any further correspondence to their nominated solicitors but this 
was ignored. A solicitor can choose to serve proceedings directly against an 
individual although ideally it should be against an insurer or a nominated solicitor. 
That said, I can see that Admiral acted swiftly in resolving this issue. So, I cant say 
theyve acted unreasonably.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs B or Admiral, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Following the provisional decision, Admiral have said company A have written off the car hire 
charges. Admiral have also agreed to pay the £150 compensation on receipt of confirmation 
from Mrs B that she accepts the decision. Mrs B has confirmed she agrees with the findings 
in the provisional decision in relation to the car hire charges. She has suggested the £150 
compensation isnt enough but is willing to accept this. I feel the compensation is fair and 
reasonable because, while its clear there has been an impact on Mrs B, this has been 
limited. I accept Mrs B was worried and upset at being pursued for the debt but this didnt 
lead to any court action or any other proceedings which would likely have had a greater 
impact.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral shouldnt have offered Mrs B the option of the non-fault 
service as it wasnt appropriate given the accident circumstances described by her. It 
therefore follows Mrs B wouldnt have taken the hire car and the charges of £1,816.40 
wouldnt have arisen. The charges have arisen as a direct consequence of Admiral having 
acted unfairly and unreasonably. On this basis, Admiral should pay for the hire car charges. 
Admiral have said these charges have been written off. So, while there doesnt appear to be 
any debt to pay here, I would add, if at any point they do become due, then Admiral should 
pay these. 
Admiral should also pay compensation to Mrs B. This reflects the shock to her when first 
receiving the invoice and also the ongoing worry and upset caused with these charges being 
pursued against her. In addition to this, there has been inconvenience to Mrs B in having to 
correspond with Admiral, company A and the debt collector to discuss the car hire charges. 
This was of course all avoidable had Admiral not offered the non-fault service. I can also see 
that there has been confusion on the part of Mrs B about whether the hire car was being 
provided under her policy. I feel Admiral have contributed to this confusion by comments 
made during the initial call. I can see that Admiral have already offered £150 as a gesture of 
goodwill to settle the matter and I think this offer is fair and reasonable to reflect the worry, 
upset and inconvenience to Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay the car hire charges of £1,816.40 if they do at any point become due; and 
Pay compensation of £150 to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman