DRN-3974402
The complaint
Mr J complains that NewDay Ltd should not have agreed his credit card applications or 
increased his credit limit as the lending was both unaffordable and irresponsible.
What happened
Mr J is represented in this complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all the submissions from Mr Js representative as being made by Mr J. 
Mr J applied and was accepted for a Marbles credit card with NewDay in May 2018, with a 
credit limit of £300. Over the course of the next three years he was offered credit limit 
increases. In December 2020 Mr J applied for an Aqua credit card with NewDay and was 
accepted with a credit limit of £600.
NewDays lending decisions in summary:
Date Limit
Marbles account opening May 2018 £300
1st marbles increase March 2020 £1,550
Aqua account opening December 2020 £600
2nd marbles increase March 2021 £2,550
In August 2021 Mr J complained to NewDay. He said he had been provided with credit he 
could not afford nor was it sustainable given his financial circumstances.
In its final response NewDay said it was satisfied Mr J was provided with the accounts 
correctly and in line with its responsible lending policy. It went on to say that each credit limit 
was also provided to Mr J correctly and in line with its lending policy. It said it was satisfied 
adequate checks were completed to ensure these credit limits were affordable. Mr J didnt 
agree and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that he hadnt seen evidence to suggest NewDay had acted 
unfairly with regard to the Marbles account opening and first credit limit increase. For the 
second credit limit increase the investigator said NewDay ought to have known Mr J wasnt 
in a position to repay the borrowing sustainably. She went on to say that given the 
information available to NewDay she didnt think it had acted fairly when it provided Mr J with 
the Aqua account.
NewDay disagreed with the investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. It 
maintained that irresponsible lending did not take place.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 January 2023. I said: 
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
is set out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when Ive considered Mr Js 
complaint.
Marbles account opening
Date Limit
Marbles account opening May 2018 £300
NewDay has provided a copy of the application data supplied by Mr J and credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). Mr Js stated income is more than £192,000 with 
additional household income of over £90,000. He had an unsecured debt balance of 
£200. Data provided by the CRAs indicated that Mr J had a previous debt 
management programme which was settled and at least one default over five years 
ago. It doesnt appear Mr Js income was verified. While it wasnt necessarily part of 
NewDays process to verify income at this stage it is a significant stated income with 
a very low level of unsecured debt and likely inconsistent with information that 
NewDay might expect on an application in its role as a second chance lender. In its 
response to this service NewDay itself accepted this figure was irregular. Im 
persuaded this high income figure warranted further investigation at the time of the 
application in order to ascertain Mr Js true income and whether he would be able to 
sustainably make repayments. Mr J couldnt provide us with bank statements in 
response to a request from our investigator so its not possible for me to determine 
what Mr Js income was at the time or what any investigation by NewDay may have 
uncovered with regards to income. While Mr J did have adverse markers on his credit 
file  a completed debt management plan and three defaults  these were 5 years 
ago or more. So, I've not seen enough evidence for me to safely conclude it was 
unfair of NewDay to accept the application with a limit of £300.
1st Credit limit increases
Date Limit
1st Marbles increase March 2020 £1,550
NewDay told this service that in the 20 months between the card opening and the 
first credit limit increase, there is no adverse data at all in Mr Js card usage. It said 
his retail spending could be described as regular and moderate and he repaid £50 
per month which was higher than the minimum payments due. It said Mr J didnt use 
all the credit available. Ive looked at Mr Js affordability data which shows how he 
managed his account and includes credit file data and I cant see anything that would 
suggest Mr J was in any financial difficulty at that time. I also note he was regularly 
making more than the minimum payment with no adverse fees. So, while I maintain 
that NewDay should have checked his income at application I havent seen anything 
to suggest Mr J was in financial difficulty and Im persuaded NewDay hasnt acted 
unfairly by increasing Mr Js credit limit as it did.
Aqua account opening
Date Limit
Aqua account opening December 2020 £600
In December 2020 Mr J applied for an Aqua card with NewDay. Ive seen the 
application data used to approve the card which includes information provided by Mr 
J and the CRAs. Mr Js stated income is £20,000 with additional household income of 
£5,000. Mr J declared £1,700 of unsecured debt. His employment is noted as a self-
employed non-professional.As Mr J already had an account with NewDay I would expect NewDay to use 
information it already has from and about Mr J and how he managed his account to 
inform its decision to lend further. I can see the application data regarding Mr Js 
income and employment is significantly different to the data provided for the Marbles 
account. In addition I've looked at the risk and affordability data for Mr J's Marbles 
card in relation to his Aqua account application. The risk and affordability data is 
NewDay's assessment of Mr J's credit performance. It shows how Mr J managed his 
account and provides details of his wider financial position using data the credit 
reference agencies have provided. I note that Mr J's unsecured lending as recorded 
by three credit reference agencies ranges between £1,700- £3,000 in November 
2020, rising to £3,200 in December. This is more than the £1,700 Mr J stated to 
NewDay on the application.
I also note that between May and September 2020 Mr J exceeded his credit limit for 
five consecutive months. While this by itself is not necessarily a reason to decline an 
application, together with the discrepancy in household income and employment and 
Mr J's rising level of unsecured credit this indicates to me that further checks would 
have been sensible. Such checks could have included, for example, verification and 
nature of Mr Js income given the recorded discrepancy between the two 
applications. However as I mentioned above Mr J couldnt provide us with bank 
statements in response to a request from our investigator so its not possible for me 
to determine what Mr Js income was at the time of this second application. Mr J still 
appeared to be managing his payments and although I can see his level of debt is 
increasing I havent seen enough evidence the payments werent sustainable or 
affordable. So subject to any further information I might receive I'm unable to safely 
conclude it was unfair of NewDay to accept the application for the Aqua credit card.
2nd Marbles Credit limit increase
Date Limit
2nd marbles increase March 2021 £2,550
I have already concluded that by December 2020 further checks by NewDay 
wouldve been sensible especially regarding verification and nature of income. I can 
see that by February 2021 Mr Js unsecured credit balance had passed beyond 
£4,000. I think this increase in debt supports the need to verify income and 
employment. I can see that Mr J withdrew cash from his card. While this can be a 
sign of financial vulnerability, I can also see Mr J was still making his payments and 
while Im not disputing that Mr J was in financial difficulty there isnt any indication in 
the data Ive seen that the payments were unaffordable. So again, subject to further 
evidence, Im not persuaded it was unfair of NewDay to increase the credit limit.
NewDay accepted my provisional decision. Mr J did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further information or evidence has been provided I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions in my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman