DRN-1728718
The complaint
Miss B has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments from her account she didnt 
authorise.
What happened
On 6 January 2020 Miss B transferred money into her Monzo account. This was to enable 
her to pay her student rent.
On 21 January 2020 she called Monzo that thered been more than 10 payments made from 
her account shed not made. She asked them to investigate and refund her. Monzo believed 
the evidence showed all the transactions had been made using Miss Bs own phone and 
from an IP address which they felt was her home address. This matched the address used 
when other non-disputed payments had been made. They believed Miss B had made these 
transactions herself. They wouldnt agree to refund her.
Miss B brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Initially an investigator agreed with Monzo. He felt Monzos evidence was convincing despite 
Miss B continuing to say shed not made the transactions. Miss B disagreed with this 
outcome. She asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
A further review was done by another investigator. She considered whether Miss Bs mental 
health and other health issues around this time could have been relevant. She was also 
unable to get any clear evidence from Monzo about whether and how new payees were set 
up to receive the disputed payments from 6 to 11 January 2020. Overall she believed Monzo 
hadnt done enough to show Miss B had made or authorised the transactions. She asked 
them to refund her along with £300 compensation for the distress caused.
Monzo asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same outcome as explained in the second view. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  like gross negligence  but nothing thats had an impact on the 
decision Im making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Monzo and Miss B have told us. I think its fair to say Monzo has provided us with 
sketchy evidence. This has included their conclusions of what must have happened based 
on the evidence theyve analysed. However Monzo has shared only limited original 
evidence.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators views of 19 March and 2 July 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision. I can reassure Miss B and Monzo Ive read the file thoroughly. That includes 
Monzos response in July to our investigators view.
The following summarises what Ive considered:
Theres no dispute Miss Bs emotional well-being and mental health was in a very 
difficult place around this time period. Ive seen evidence from the welfare officer at 
Miss Bs university which is candid about what she was going through. I see no 
reason to repeat the details here.
The notes Monzo provided to us of their conversations with Miss B also confirm she 
told them of her difficulties. They say this was after the event and there was nothing 
they could do by then. That is true but its certainly personal circumstances they 
could have taken into account when coming to their conclusion.
Monzos evidence shows Miss Bs device was used for the transactions. I dont doubt 
this evidence. But there seems to me to have been plenty of opportunity for 
somebody to access and use Miss Bs phone during this period.
And this is where Miss Bs health and well-being around this time period come into 
play. Its clear to me she was in no fit state to monitor her account nor would I have 
expected her to be able to alert Monzo early on that payments were being made from 
her account.  
Nor do I believe from what I know what was going on in Miss Bs life that shed 
always have been aware of what was going on around her.
The evidence from Miss B points to her not knowing what was going on nor the 
payments being made from her account. The disputed payments all seem to have 
been made to new payees and some of them were for small amounts (£30 or £20) 
and others were for larger figures (£300 or £600).
Unfortunately Monzo has been unable to provide us with any evidence to show when 
these payees were set up. Obviously if they were pre-existing then itd be more than 
likely Miss B made them. Miss B has been consistent about not knowing the people 
who the payments were made to. Monzo hasnt suggested these were pre-existing 
payees.
On the basis that Miss B wasnt paying too much attention to her account and her 
personal belongings, I have considered whether Miss B could be considered to have 
been behaving in a grossly negligent manner. Monzo has provided no evidence 
around this aspect. Overall I dont believe theres anything to show Miss B was 
grossly negligent.Miss B made two payments into her Monzo account before the disputed transactions 
took place. She had earmarked what the money was for. I see no reason why Miss B 
would have imperilled her own funds by sending money to a range of unknown third 
parties. Monzo has not explained this aspect either.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the account (and device) 
to be compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Miss B in this case) 
authorised these transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got 
hold of Miss Bs account details and device, made these transactions or to investigate who 
that potential fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Miss Bs account without her consent. Ive thought about the different scenarios that 
could have happened here. That includes whether Miss B left her phone lying around. This 
could have enabled a third party  and very possibly someone known to her  taking 
advantage of Miss Bs state of mind and health to make the disputed transactions.
Putting things right
Overall and on balance I dont believe Miss B made or authorised the transactions so Monzo 
will need to refund £2,230. They will also need to add 8% simple interest to the transactions 
from when they were made until the date of settlement.
Our investigator asked Monzo to also pay Miss B £300 for the distress caused to her. I agree 
with this. Miss B was not well during this period and its not clear Monzo extended the 
sympathy, when they were aware of her condition, I think they should have. This didnt 
cause the problems she was having but certainly would have exacerbated them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Miss B £2,230 for the disputed transactions made from 6 to 11 January 2020;
Add 8% simple interest from the date the transactions were made until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Miss B £300 for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman