DRN-3589152
The complaint
Miss S complains that Rhino Protect Limited (RP) cancelled her home sellers insurance 
without any explanation.
What happened
Miss S purchased a policy online from RP on 9 November 2020. During the online purchase 
process, Miss S explained that she was directed to several different companies and that she 
had received blank insurance documents. So, she contacted RP. 
Miss S told the advisor that she felt that the company wasnt genuine, given her experience 
during the online purchase process. The advisor assured Miss S that RP was genuine and 
that there was a glitch in the system that caused blank documents to be sent to customers. 
She explained that she would get this rectified by another colleague. 
Miss S enquired how she would go about getting the policy cancelled and informed the 
advisor that she had already cancelled her payment card, as she believed that the company 
wasnt genuine. Miss S also asked the advisor to refund her payment. But told the advisor 
that before this was to be done, she wanted the correct completed insurance documents 
sent to her and a call back from the advisors manager. 
On the next day, Miss S received her policy documents by email. The documents had been 
completed, but there were a few errors contained in the paperwork. So, Miss S contacted RP 
to point out the errors. Miss S describes that the advisor was discourteous and 
unprofessional. And asked for a call back from the manager. 
Instead of receiving a call back, Miss S received an email informing her that RP felt that the 
relationship between them had broken down. It also told her that her policy would be 
cancelled, and her premiums would be refunded. 
Miss S sent RP an email complaining about the poor level of customer service and informing 
it that she would be referring her complaint to our service, which she did, before RP sent her 
its final response. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the main issue of Miss S complaint was, RPs decision to cancel her policy prior to 
her deciding whether she wanted to continue with it. She explained that this was a 
commercial decision and in line with the policy terms and conditions. She accepted that RP 
had made mistakes in the documentation that was sent to Miss S, but as it had apologised 
for those errors, she believed that this was enough. And that she was unable to ask RP to
do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
RP accepted the view, Miss S did not. She said that as she had voiced her concerns about 
RP and pointed out the errors in the paperwork that had been sent to her, it cancelled her 
policy, without any explanation. Miss S relied upon the policy terms and conditions, where it 
said that if RP wanted to cancel the policy it had to give customers seven days notice of its 
intention to cancel. So, RP had breached its own terms and conditions. Miss S reiterated 
that she had done nothing wrong and RP cancelled her policy. She felt that she had been 
treated unfairly and RP had breached its own terms and conditions. So, she asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 June 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
July 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint, and I will explain why I think this is fair.
Miss S took out cover with RP for a home sellers insurance policy on 9 November 2020. 
The policy was initially taken out online, but during the purchase process Miss S describes 
being unable to access links on the site and when she did, this directed her to different 
companies. She explained that she was sent blank documents and because of her fear that 
RP wasnt a genuine business, she cancelled her payment card and wanted re-assurance 
from RP.  Miss S describes that RP without giving her the requisite notice period, cancelled 
her policy. 
I have considered all of the evidence provided to me from both parties and having done this, 
I think the main issues of this complaint are, whether RP complied with the policy terms and 
conditions. And whether the level of service that it gave Miss S fell below the usual standard. 
Breach of terms and conditions. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions and in particular the term that deals with 
RPs obligations if it wants to cancel a policyholders policy. It says: In circumstances where we 
feel we cannot continue providing services to you, we will give you a minimum of 7 days notice. Both parties 
agree that the policy was cancelled by RP the following day. I note that RP has accepted that it cancelled the 
policy without giving Miss S the seven-day notice period. 
RP said that it was an oversight and it believed that it should resolve the situation as quickly as possible. Whilst 
I can understand that RP wanted to terminate its contract with Miss S, I dont think it was fair or reasonable to 
disapply the policy terms and conditions in effecting the termination. I think the term is clear, that a notice period 
should have been followed. That period wasnt followed and from the evidence before me, I cant agree that there 
was any reason to circumvent the notice period. Consequently, I think that RP had breached the policy terms and 
conditions. And I think, this error should be reflected by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Poor customer service 
I have next considered the customer service that Miss S has also complained about. RP said 
that Miss S had completely overreacted to the situation. And it seems that because of this, 
it cancelled the policy. 
I have listened to the first call recording that was sent. The summary of the call is as follows. 
Miss S initially said that she felt that the company was fake. She enquired about how to 
cancel the policy that she had set up online. She gave reasons during the call why she was concerned. Which essentially was because she was sent policy documents that were blank, 
and each time she followed a link, as directed on the website, these displayed details of 
another unrelated company. The call handler confirmed that there had been an issue with 
the computer system, which RP was aware of. There were occasions when the call dropped. 
Miss S did say that as she felt that the company wasnt genuine, she cancelled her payment 
card so that no further money could be taken. The call ended with both parties agreeing that 
another set of completed documents would be sent out to Miss S by email and that a 
manager would contact her to discuss the policy. 
Later Miss S received the documents by email with an accompanying letter (which I have 
read). In the letter, it invited Miss S to contact RP if there were any errors. Miss S phoned 
RP as there were several errors and during that call, Miss S said that the call handler was 
discourteous and unprofessional. I asked RP to provide all the call recordings (including the 
recording where she alleges the call handler was rude), as Miss S said that she had made a 
few calls to RP and spoke to various staff to gather information about whether it was a 
genuine company. 
RP said that it struggled to locate the call recordings, despite a search. But confirmed that it 
couldnt say that the calls didnt happen. Miss S provided a testimony in which she gives 
details of the unprofessional behaviour of the call handler who spoke to her. She describes 
the call handler being disinterested in what she had to say and being unprofessional towards 
her. In the absence of any call recordings from RP that is contrary to Miss S account, I think 
Im persuaded by Miss S testimony, as soon afterwards, she was emailed a termination of 
policy letter. 
As were an impartial dispute resolution service, our general approach is to investigate 
whether a business has made an error or acted unreasonably on individual complaints and if 
they have, we consider what has to be done to put things right.
Having considered the evidence, I think that the level of service Miss S received couldve 
been better and I have to consider the impact of the errors on Miss S. I also note that when 
Miss S complained to RP, it didnt respond within the timescales as outline in the policy. And 
I have taken this into account. 
I understand that Miss S said that because her policy was cancelled, she was unable to 
make a claim for the aborted sale of her property. But the policy was cancelled in November 
2020. From the additional information Miss S provided relating to the aborted sale, I note 
that the failed sale took place around January 2021. So, I think that Miss S wouldve had 
enough time to organise alternative cover, had she wanted to, before the sale of her 
property.  So, when considering the impact, I think the impact was reduced. 
I do think that Miss S had concerns about the company and asked genuine questions to 
alleviate her fears. I also think there were errors in the paperwork sent to Miss S and RP 
didnt comply with the policy terms and conditions. 
As such, I think its fair and reasonable that RP put matters right. I think that Miss S had 
been inconvenienced by the errors Ive mentioned. But the impact wouldve been reduced as 
I explained above. However, RP ought to compensate Miss S for the trouble and upset this 
caused and I think £150 is a reasonable sum that adequately reflects this. I also think that if 
the cancelled policy has been entered in the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), RP 
ought to ensure that the details in it, are accurate and provide Miss S with a copy of the 
entry.
Responses to my provisional decisionRP did not reply to my provisional decision. 
Miss S said that RP were the only company who provided home sellers insurance. That she 
tried to find other companies but the two she found came back to RP providing the 
insurance. And as it was RP who cancelled the policy, there were no others she could 
access, so she was left without protection. As a result, she suffered financial loss. 
Miss S didnt mention the amount of financial loss she suffered. 
I have carefully considered Miss S responses to my provisional decision and I conducted an 
internet search for providers who sold home sellers insurance. I found a few companies that 
provided this kind of insurance. Whilst it is fair to say that two of the companies apparently 
had links to RP, there were other companies who provided this form of insurance and had no 
links with RP at all. 
Nonetheless, I accept that there are only a few insurers who provide this insurance product, 
but I do think that Miss S wouldve been able to find an alternative provider. So, I dont think 
its fair or reasonable for RP to pay the additional losses that Miss S said she suffered from, 
as a result of the failed sale of her property. 
In addition, I understand that Miss S said that she wouldnt have had sufficient time to take 
out another policy as the terms of the policy said that home sellers insurance had to be 
taken out within seven days of the accepting an offer on the property being sold. But as I 
mentioned in the provisional decision, the policy was cancelled by RP in November 2020. 
The aborted sale of Miss S property occurred in January 2021, so I think there was enough 
time for Miss S to organise alternative insurance, with another provider, if she needed. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that RP made errors and those errors wouldve impacted 
Miss S. For those errors, I think its fair and reasonable for RP to pay Miss S compensation 
of £150 which reflects the trouble and upset caused. I also think that if the cancelled policy 
has been entered in the CUE, RP ought to ensure that the details in it, are accurate and 
provide Miss S with a copy of the entry.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Rhino Protect Limited as outlined below. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Rhino Protect Limited to pay compensation of £150 to Miss S for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Rhino Protect Limited are to ensure the details on the CUE are accurate and provide Miss S 
a copy of what has been entered, within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss S 
accepts my final decision. 
Rhino Protect Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman