DRN-1684734
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Natonwide Building Society acted unfairly when it charged them 
the standard mortgage rate (SMR) at the end of their two-year fixed rate deal in July 2019.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had taken out a two-year fixed mortgage deal with Nationwide in 2017. This 
deal was due to expire at the end of July 2019. Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs T a letter dated 
11 July 2019 reminding them that their two-year fixed rate deal was coming to an end and 
that the mortgage would revert to SMR at the end of July 2019.
Before the deal came to an end, Mr and Mrs T used Nationwides online portal to choose a 
new fixed rate deal. Mr and Mrs T chose a mortgage deal with 1.54% interest rate and opted 
to start the new mortgage in October 2019.
At the end of July 2019, Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage reverted to SMR and so Nationwide tried 
to take mortgage payments for the two months  August and September 2019 prior to the 
new deal starting in October 2019 but the payment attempts were unsuccessful.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Nationwide saying it wasnt made clear to them theyll have to 
pay SMR for the two-month period and had they known, they would have opted to start their 
new mortgage deal immediately. Nationwide didnt uphold their complaint. It said no advice 
was given to Mr and Mrs T when they used its online tool to choose a new mortgage 
product, and they were required to make payments monthly towards their mortgage. It also 
said that as Mr and Mrs Ts fixed rate deal ended in July, their mortgage automatically 
reverted to SMR for the two-month period.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint to this service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide 
had done anything wrong. He said that he thought Nationwide made it clear that Mr and
Mrs T needed to make monthly mortgage payments. Mr and Mrs T disagreed, they said the 
online tool didnt make it clear they would be charged SMR for August and September 2019. 
They also said that Nationwide needed to change its process to make things clearer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage deal was coming to an end in July 2019, they understood 
that if they didnt move to another deal, their mortgage would revert to SMR by default. Ive 
also seen the letter from Nationwide dated 11 July 2019 informing Mr and Mrs T that a 
payment of £2,180.30 would be due in August 2019 on the SMR.Ive also seen a copy of the original mortgage offer and it details clearly that a mortgage 
payment was due each month during the life time of the mortgage and Mr and Mrs T had 
made a mortgage payment every month until the end of July 2019.
Mr and Mrs T have said they dont think the complaint could be fairly decided without seeing 
Nationwides online tool. I havent seen the online tool by Nationwide but I dont think that 
precludes me from being able to make a fair decision in this case. I have no reason to doubt 
what Mr and Mrs T have said about the tool  theyve said the tool didnt make it clear that 
by opting to start their new fixed rate product in October 2019, theyll be liable to pay the 
SMR for August and September 2019. Nationwide has said the tool was an execution only 
portal and no advice was given.
My role requires me to consider whether Nationwide did anything wrong and whether it had 
acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs T. Nationwides original mortgage offer made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs T were required to make monthly payments towards their mortgage. Also the 
letter in July clearly states that SMR will apply from August 2019 and it states how much 
they will be charged.
Given the above, I think Mr and Mrs T were reasonably aware that they would be required to 
make a payment towards their mortgage every month and I dont think that Mr and Mrs T 
choosing a later date to begin their new mortgage deal or the online tool not explicitly stating 
this changed the terms and conditions of their mortgage.
And so while I can understand Mr and Mrs Ts arguments, I dont think theres enough here 
for me to say Nationwide did something wrong. I think Mr and Mrs T had sufficient 
information to make them reasonably aware that the they didnt get a payment break by 
choosing a later start date and that they were ultimately liable to make a mortgage payment 
every month.
As the investigator explained, it isnt this services role to review or make recommendations 
about Nationwides processes. And so it doesnt fall within my remit to tell Nationwide what 
its processes should look like on how it chooses to conduct its business. I understand Mr 
and Mrs T will likely be disappointed with my findings but having weighed up all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint or make any award 
against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14July2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman