DRN-3736813
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed his account.
Background
In February 2022, Monzo took the decision to close Mr Cs account and it sent Mr C a letter 
on 25 February 2022 confirming that it would be doing so in two months. Mr C complained 
about Monzos actions. Monzo didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. As Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, Mr C referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr C 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr C, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr C is unhappy 
Monzo closed his account. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to close an account and providing a customer with an account is a 
commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And typically, as long as it provides 
reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision.
In this case Mr C was provided with reasonable notice. So Im satisfied that Monzo had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr Cs account and as such its decision wasnt unfair in the 
circumstances. I realise that Monzos decision will have been very disappointing to Mr C and 
I can appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Monzo it has to continue offering   
Mr C an account in circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to 
provide him with one. Furthermore, while I noted the comments Mr C has made regarding 
his philosophical beliefs being a factor in Monzos decision to close his account, Ive not 
seen anything at all which indicates this was the case. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr C has said that we should not be looking at his case individually 
and should be looking at his case together with his colleagues as they have all had accounts 
closed. However, this service only has the power to consider individual disputes. So I simply 
dont have the power to do what Mr C is asking. Furthermore, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that any difficulties Mr C may be having with other accounts is due to any actions 
taken by Monzo. So while I sympathise with any difficulties Mr C may be having, I dont think 
that Monzo is responsible for this. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Monzo has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr C and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Monzo was entitled to close his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman