DRN-1879587
 
The complaint
Ms F has complained about the way in which Nationwide Building Society dealt with her 
when she wanted to borrow more money on her mortgage. She says she was discriminated 
against because of her age.
What happened
Ms F was an existing Nationwide mortgage customer, and in July 2019 she wanted to 
borrow more money for a new kitchen. 
Her existing mortgage was set to run until she was 80, and she wanted similar for the new 
borrowing. Unfortunately, Nationwides criteria had changed so it only offered its standard 
mortgages up to age 75.
She was told she could apply through a new scheme Nationwide had released which was 
called Later Life. This was designed for borrowers aged 55 or over and allowed them to 
apply for further borrowing up to the age of 94. It gave the options of:
an equity release product where no payments would be made, and the mortgage 
would be repaid from the sale proceeds of the property when the last borrower dies 
or moves into long term care, or because the property is sold for other reasons;
an interest-only mortgage, where only interest would be paid each month, and the 
mortgage would be repaid from the sale proceeds of the property when the last 
borrower dies or moves into long term care, or because the property is sold for other 
reasons; and
a repayment mortgage with a set term.
Ms F was unhappy with the questions she was asked as part of the process saying they 
were patronising and offensive, which left her angry and upset. She said she had been 
discriminated against because of her age. Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, so it was 
brought to us where an investigator looked at it.
The investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Ms F didnt accept this, 
and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether Ms F was treated fairly, I need to take into account what the law says 
about this. The Equality Act 2010 came into force, as far as age discrimination is concerned, 
in 2012. Once the Act came into force, age discrimination was made unlawful. This means 
that service providers cant refuse to provide a service, provide it on different terms, or treat 
customers differently because of age. An exception was made for providers of financial 
services. They are allowed to make decisions based on age  this is known as the financial 
services exemption. 
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Nationwide can rely on the exemption in the 
Equality Act and use age as a factor in its decision making. Im also satisfied Nationwide 
could use its commercial discretion in both deciding to only lend to age 75 unless a Later 
Life mortgage is taken, and for the questions it asks as part of the Later Life process. Im 
satisfied Nationwide didnt discriminate against Ms F due to her age.
Whilst Ms F may have found the questions intrusive and unwelcome, I cant blame 
Nationwide for going the extra mile to ensure it met its regulatory obligations. This was a 
new product for Nationwide, but it will be aware of the numbers (and nature) of complaints 
that other providers have had from family members when a mortgage holder either goes into 
long term care or has died. We see a lot of these complaints and many say (amongst 
others):
their family member had a sufficient level of savings so had no need to borrow 
money on a mortgage;
the family member wouldnt have agreed to it without telling them; and
the lender should have thought about potential future care needs as with an 
outstanding mortgage on the property theres less equity available to fund that.
These are all things Nationwide needs to consider as part of its regulatory obligations to 
ensure the Later Life product is suitable for the applicant. I understand Ms F found an 
alternative lender that she says didnt question her in the same way, but that doesnt mean 
Nationwide did anything wrong just because its process is different. Having considered 
everything, Im satisfied the questions Nationwide asked Ms F were appropriate in the 
circumstances and therefore I dont find it did anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman