DRN-3053573
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a fee-paying Platinum 
packaged bank account.
Miss C says that she held a Childrens account with BoS and this was changed without her 
consent to a fee-paying Platinum account on her 16th birthday.
What happened
One of our adjudicators did not think that the account was mis-sold. Miss C disagreed so the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I can see that Miss C has also complained about overdraft charges and she says that this 
has caused her a great deal of financial difficulty. Miss Cs complaint about the overdraft 
charges and financial difficulties will be looked at separately to this complaint, so I wont be 
addressing those concerns in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having weighed everything up, on balance, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-
sold. I will explain why.
Miss C says that her account was upgraded to the Platinum account without her consent on 
her 16th birthday in 2002. However BoS says that it sold the Platinum account to Miss C on 
24 February 2012 and not in 2002 as Miss C recalls. BoS has been able to provide a copy of 
the application form that Miss C signed, and that is dated 24 February 2012. BoS has also 
provided a copy of its customer notes, and that has an entry dated 24 February 2012. The 
entry says:
upgrade to platinum as required breakdown cover with relay, mobile phone ins. £250 
overdraft added to the account and registered for online banking
So, based on the evidence that I have seen, Im satisfied that the Platinum account was not 
added to Miss Cs account as she recalls, when she turned 16, and was actually sold to her 
many years later. Therefore, I am satisfied that Miss C agreed to upgrade her account. And 
as shed held a fee-free account for some time before the sale (which, at times, included an 
overdraft), I think that Miss C agreed to the Platinum account knowing that it was optional. 
And I think she knew that fee-free accounts were available to her, if she didnt want to pay a 
monthly fee for her account.
BoS recommended the account to Miss C. This meant it had to make sure the account was 
a good fit for her circumstances at the time.
At the time, the account cost £17 per month, and in return it provided enhanced levels of 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and travel insurance. It also provided an interest 
and charge free overdraft facility of up to £250.
Miss C says that she didnt drive at the time. However the note from the time says it was 
recommended to Miss C for this benefit. And BoS has been able to provide evidence to 
show that Miss C went on to claim on the breakdown cover 6 times in the time she held the 
account  with the first claim being made on 29 June 2012, so not long after the account had 
been sold to Miss C. Given the number of times that Miss C claimed on this benefit, this 
suggests that Miss C did have a need for this benefit and went on to find it useful in her 
circumstances. 
The account also included mobile phone insurance, and although Miss C first registered a 
phone in 2016  which was sometime after the account was sold to her  there was no 
requirement for phones to be registered for them to be covered. BoS has provided evidence 
that Miss C had a phone around the time the account was sold to her, so again the evidence 
suggests that Miss C mayve had a need for and found this benefit of the account useful  
although I appreciate that, as it happens, Miss C never made a claim on this benefit.
Finally, I can see that Miss C previously had arranged overdrafts on her account. And 
another one was agreed at the same time that she took out this account. The arranged limit 
was £250, which was also the fee-free amount that came with the Platinum account. So in 
other words, by having the Platinum account, in addition to the insurance benefits, Miss C 
was also able to use her overdraft, without being charged interest or overdraft usage 
charges  in return for the monthly account fee for the combined benefits of the account. So 
it looks like Miss C was able to benefit from this feature of the account too.
I note that Miss C says that she went on to suffer financial difficulties and blames BoS for 
increasing her overdraft to £500. And I can see that BoS did later go on to increase Miss Cs 
overdraft limit. But this happened after the Platinum account had been sold to Miss C. And 
as this matter will be considered under a separate complaint, I wont comment further on that 
point here.
I appreciate that Miss C may not have needed all of the benefits that came with the account. 
But as it was sold as a package, Miss C could not pick and choose what it came with. And 
given that Miss C was able to benefit from a number of the main features of the account, I 
think that BoSs recommendation that she upgrade to this account was not unreasonable in 
the circumstances. Afterall, as outlined above, I think she agreed to the recommendation 
knowing she didnt have to, if she didnt want to.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Miss Cs circumstances, BoS also had 
to provide Miss C with important information about the account, so that she could establish 
whether it was right for her.
I think its likely that BoS wouldve explained the key features and the cost of the account 
when it sold it to Miss C. And Miss C was clearly aware of the breakdown cover and how to 
go about using it, which indicates she was given some information about the Platinum 
account benefits. And it seems that Miss C was aware of the cost of the account from the 
outset.
I accept its possible that BoS may not have given Miss C all of the important information it 
shouldve during the sale. But Ive not seen anything about Miss Cs circumstances at the 
time that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she 
been given more information about it.
So overall, Ive not seen enough to say that the Platinum account was mis-sold to Miss C
.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman