DRN-2085004
The complaint
Mr M complains that DSG Retail Limited (DSG) misrepresented a buy now pay later 
(BNPL) finance agreement. He wants DSG to refund the interest hes been charged for the 
first six months of the agreement.
What happened
Mr M bought a laptop in store using a BNPL agreement. Mr M says he was told he could 
make 12 monthly payments, starting in six months time. He says he wasnt told that interest 
would be added for the first six months of the agreement. Hes been charged £79.
DSG said the agreement made it clear that interest would be charged from the date of 
purchase, unless full payment was received before 15 June 2019. It credited Mr Ms 
agreement with £30 in recognition of the difficulties hed had making his complaint.
The complaint was considered by two of our investigators and neither recommended that it 
should be upheld. They concluded, in summary, that the terms of the agreement which Mr M 
had signed were clear, and that the interest had been fairly charged.
Mr M didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He didnt read the terms and conditions of the agreement and didnt see the information 
about how the interest would be charged. He trusted what the member of staff had told 
him.
He set up an online account with the lender, but the account page didnt say anything 
about the interest.
Mr M complained as soon as he saw the interest charge  in or around June 2019. But 
he was passed around the various businesses involved and their various departments, 
meaning his complaint wasnt made to DSG until March 2020. DSG said it was too late 
to get testimony from the member of staff  but if hed been told at the outset how to 
complain, the testimony could have been obtained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr Ms told us that he didnt expect interest to be charged for the first six 
months of the agreement. He thought he could pay 12 monthly instalments  starting in July 
2019 - without interest accruing from the date of purchase. 
But I cant uphold this complaint because Mr M misunderstood the agreement. For me to 
fairly decide that DSG should refund the interest for the first six months of the agreement, 
I need to be able to conclude that the agreement was misrepresented to him.
I cant say with any certainty what was discussed in store. Mr M says he was told the first six 
months of the agreement were interest free  which would have been the case if hed repaid 
the agreement in full by 15 June 2019. He says he was also told the first six months of the 
agreement were interest free if he chose to repay the agreement in monthly instalments from 
July 2019. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im not persuaded the salesperson would have 
said this. I say this because the terms of the agreement are clear that if payment is not made 
in full by 15 June 2019, interest is charged from the date of your purchase. I think its likely 
that the salesperson was familiar with these key parts of the agreement.
Mr M complained when he noticed the interest charge  so in or around June 2019. And he 
says he was passed to and fro from one business to another and one department to another 
and no-one would take responsibility for his complaint  until he complained to DSG in 
March 2020. I accept this would have been incredibly frustrating. But this complaint is about 
what DSG did or didnt do and Im satisfied that it dealt with his complaint in a timely manner 
when it was received. I think its goodwill payment of £30 was fair in the circumstances.
Mr M feels strongly that, had he been directed to the correct department in June 2019, it 
would have been possible to obtain the salespersons testimony which would support his 
claim. But I think its more likely than not that the salesperson wouldnt remember the detail 
of a discussion with a consumer if they were asked about it six months later. Particularly 
when the sale took place just before Christmas when they were likely to be making several 
sales a day, every day. I appreciate Mr M would like to have known what the salesperson did 
recollect. But that testimony isnt available  and I think its unlikely that it would have been 
available six months after the date of sale. So this doesnt make a difference to my 
conclusion.
Overall, I cant conclude that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman