DRN-4483443
The complaint
Mr C complains JAJA FINANCE LTD trading as Asda Flexible Payments (JAJA) declined his 
credit card application.
What happened
Mr C applied for a JAJA credit card as it came with an offer if he used it in a supermarket. 
JAJA declined the application, and Mr C complained.
JAJA said there was a technical issue with the application and Mr C would need to apply 
again. Unhappy with this answer, Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Mr C said, as a pensioner, he lives on a tight budget, but has no debts or adverse 
information on his credit file. Mr C said other businesses had extended him credit and he felt 
the decision to decline his application was discriminatory, based on his age.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint, and they didnt think JAJA had acted unfairly. 
The investigator thought JAJA had fully assessed Mr Cs application and come to a 
reasonable decision to decline it.
The investigator said JAJA didnt need to give Mr C the exact reason for the decline, but it 
would have relied on several factors, including Mr Cs credit file.
The investigator didnt think JAJA had discriminated against Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree and explained he poses no credit risk as hes very careful with his 
budgeting and has no debts. Mr C said he has an impeccable credit record, and sent in 
information to show this.
Mr C addressed each potential risk point and why the points didnt apply to him. Mr C felt the 
only reason for the decline was his age as he knows younger people who are given lots of 
credit, sometimes to their detriment. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
My provisional decision
I disagreed with the investigators outcome, and issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
JAJAs explained Mr C failed its internal underwriting criteria. Id not necessarily expect JAJA 
to make its underwriting policy public, I think its reasonable to keep this information 
confidential.
I asked JAJA to send its underwriting policy to me, to see if it had treated Mr C fairly. JAJA 
didnt agree to this, but instead said it had a minimum income criterion for its credit cards.
A minimum income requirement is fairly standard for credit cards, so I dont think its unfair 
for JAJA to have this requirement. But, I do think JAJA should make this clear during the 
application process.
Mr Cs explained how careful he is with his budget, how he pays off his credit cards in full 
every month and makes sure other bills are paid on time too. Mr Cs very aware of what his 
income and expenditure is.
I think if JAJA had made it clear, during the application process, it needed a minimum 
income from Mr C, Im satisfied Mr C wouldnt have continued with the application.
And, had this happened, Mr C would have avoided the considerable inconvenience hes 
experienced having been declined. The application was also recorded on Mr Cs credit file, 
and this wouldnt have happened had Mr C not gone ahead with the application. 
Mr Cs said he feels JAJAs discriminated against him based on his age. Discrimination is 
covered under the Equality Act 2010 (Act), so Ive thought carefully about what this might 
mean for my decision.
Its not my role to say whether JAJA has breached the Act, because thats a matter for the 
courts to decide. Ive taken the Act into consideration, as its relevant law, but I must decide 
whether JAJAs treated Mr C fairly in all the specific circumstances of his complaint.
Having done this, I think JAJA was fair in declining Mr Cs application because it didnt meet 
its minimum income threshold. But I dont think JAJA was fair in not making this threshold 
clear to Mr C so he could make an informed decision about whether to apply or not.
Because I dont think Mr C would have continued with his application, had he known about 
the minimum income requirement, I think JAJA should remove any record of Mr Cs 
application from his credit file.
And, because I think Mr Cs been caused some distress and inconvenience, because of this 
declined application, JAJA should pay Mr C £200.
Responses to my provisional decision
JAJA responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr C responded and made several further points. Mr C agreed he wasnt told about the 
minimum income threshold.
But Mr C said JAJA lied to him when it told him there was a technical issue with the 
application. This wasnt true, it was an income threshold, and Mr C didnt feel my ruling or 
penalty was enough to hold JAJA responsible for this lie.
Mr C also said the investigator covered up the information about an income threshold.
Mr C said JAJA had varied the terms of the application, by having an income threshold it 
didnt tell him about. Mr C says he applied in good faith, so JAJA should accept his 
application.
Mr C repeated the fact he has a very good credit score and no missed payments or adverse 
data. Mr C sent me copies of his credit file and his credit score.Mr C also still believes JAJA discriminated against him on the basis of his age. Mr C said, 
leaving aside the minimum income criteria, there was no other reason for declining the credit 
card.
Mr C said his credit is provably very good, so the only reason JAJA had for declining his 
credit card is his age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says JAJA lied when it said there was a technical issue with his application. I think 
JAJA should have told Mr C about the minimum income requirement at the point of 
application and when it sent him a final response letter.
I think JAJA was wrong to tell Mr C there was a technical error with his application, it should 
have been more honest with Mr C and told him exactly why it declined his application.
But my role isnt to punish JAJA for its mistakes, but to compensate Mr C for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced because of any mistakes it made. I dont think it would be fair 
to increase any compensation payment because Mr C wants JAJA punished.
Mr C says the investigator covered up the existence of a minimum income requirement. The 
investigator said they felt JAJA had fairly declined Mr Cs application, but didnt explain 
exactly why.
I didnt think this was the right outcome, which is why I provisionally decided things. And this 
is why theres a two stage process for the merits of Mr Cs complaint, he was unhappy with 
the investigators outcome and asked for a final decision.
I chose to fully explain the reasons for Mr Cs declined application, so Im satisfied Mr C now 
knows exactly why he was declined. I dont think I can comment on whether the investigator 
covered things up, only that I think its fair Mr C knows the reason for the decline.
Mr C says JAJA varied the terms of its application, so it should assess his application 
without using the income requirement as he didnt know about it. I dont think this would be 
the fair thing to do.
JAJA did the wrong thing by not telling Mr C about the income requirement, but that doesnt 
mean the income requirement isnt there. Having an income requirement for a credit card 
isnt unusual, so I dont think JAJAs wrong to have it as part of its application process.
And just because JAJA didnt tell Mr C it doesnt mean this check should be disregarded. As 
a service we aim to place consumers in the position they should have been had a business 
not made a mistake.
For Mr C this means JAJA should have told him about the income requirement as part of the 
application process and he could then decide to apply or not. 
The ability to make an informed decision was taken away from Mr C. I cant place Mr C back 
in a position where he can make the informed decision, so I can only say I dont think he 
would have applied had the income requirement been made clear.And I think my suggested redress places Mr C back to where he was prior to the application, 
with no record of the application on his credit file.
Mr Cs sent in lots of information about his good credit standing, and I can see he runs his 
credit accounts very well. But the reason for JAJA declining the credit card wasnt because 
of poor credit, but because Mr Cs income is too low.
Although Ive considered Mr Cs credit standing when reaching my decision, I dont think its 
relevant to JAJAs decision to decline the credit card.
Lastly, Mr C still feels JAJA has discriminated against him due to his age. Mr C says leaving 
the income requirement aside, the only reason to decline the credit card must be his age.
But I cant leave the income requirement aside, its the reason JAJA declined his application. 
Because of this, I dont think JAJA decided to decline the credit card because of Mr Cs age, 
so my thinking on this is unchanged from my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Because I dont think Mr C would have continued with his application, had he known about 
the minimum income requirement, I think JAJA should remove any record of Mr Cs 
application from his credit file.
And, because I think Mr Cs been caused some distress and inconvenience, due to this 
declined application, JAJA should pay Mr C £200.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and JAJA FINANCE LTD trading as Asda Flexible 
Payments should:
remove any record of the application from Mr Cs credit file
pay Mr C £200 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman