DRN-3053248
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society reported adverse information to his credit 
file regarding a credit account which he believed had been closed several years before.  
What happened
Mr M had an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA) which completed in 2013 and which 
included a Nationwide credit account. 
In 2020, Mr M applied for credit from another credit provider. Mr Ms application was 
unsuccessful, which came as a surprise to Mr M, and he later discovered that Nationwide 
were reporting adverse information on his credit file in relation to the credit account that had 
been included in his IVA and which Mr M believed had been closed in 2013. Mr M wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ms complaint. They explained that the underlying reason this had 
happened was because Mr Ms IVA practitioner had never sent them any form of 
confirmation that the IVA had been completed, which meant that Mr Ms account had been 
sat in a dormant queue awaiting the confirmation to be sent. However, Nationwide 
acknowledged that the adverse information shouldnt have been reported to Mr Ms credit 
file, and they apologised to Mr M for this, promised to remove the information, and offered 
Mr M £75 compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the £75 
compensation that Nationwide had offered Mr M didnt go far enough, so they recommended 
that Nationwide raise their total offer of compensation to £150.
Nationwide agreed with the recommendation put forwards by the investigator, but Mr M 
remained dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr M to have had an application for 
credit declined because of adverse reporting present on his credit file that shouldnt have 
been there.
What this service would expect in these circumstances would be that Nationwide would 
acknowledge and apologise for their error and make sure that the adverse reporting was 
removed from Mr Ms credit file. It would also be expected that Nationwide would make a fair 
offer of compensation to Mr M for any trouble and distress that Mr M may have incurred.  
Nationwide appear to have done that here. They apologised to Mr M for the what had 
happened and provided an explanation as to why it had happened. Nationwide also ensured 
that the incorrect adverse reporting was removed from Mr Ms credit file so that it wouldnt 
impact other applications for credit that Mr M might make moving forwards.
Nationwide also made an offer of compensation to Mr M of £75, and, following the 
recommendations put forwards by our investigator, agreed to increase that offer of 
compensation to £150.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, 
while I appreciate that Mr M might not agree, the £150 compensation amount to which 
Nationwide have already agreed here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
Im aware that Mr M feels that a larger amount of compensation is warranted on the basis 
that he was declined for a card with a particularly advantageous interest rate offer, which is 
no longer available. However, while I can appreciate Mr Ms position here, it can be the case 
that offers of lower than usual interest rates can be accompanied by stricter than usual 
application criteria, and so I dont feel that it can be stated definitively that Mr M would have 
been approved for the credit, even had the adverse information not been present on his 
credit file.
Mr M has also stated that he hasnt been able to apply for credit for six months, as this is the 
recommended time to wait to reapply for credit following a credit application being declined. 
In normal circumstances I would agree that it can be beneficial to wait for some time before 
reapplying for credit. But given the nature of these circumstances, I feel that Mr M would 
have been reasonably able to reapply for credit as soon as the adverse information was 
removed from his credit file.
All of which means that while I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration here, I continue to feel that 
the offer of £150 compensation to which Nationwide have already agreed does represent a 
fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but it follows that while I will 
be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour, I will be doing so only on the basis that 
Nationwide must make a payment of £150 to Mr M. I hope that Mr M can understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a compensation payment of £150 to Mr M.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman