DRN-3068638
The complaint
Ms I complains that she was discriminated against by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
In January 2021, Ms Is debit card stopped working. She was some way from home and 
needed to get some cash to travel back. She went to a Barclays branch shortly after 2pm to 
withdraw cash - but found that it closed at that time. The branch staff wouldnt let her in. She 
then got a taxi to travel home, using the coins she had.
Ms I complained. She said the branch opening hours online said it closed at 3pm. But she 
said her main complaint was that as a small, black person, she felt discriminated against. 
She said she was threatened with the police and was addressed in a disrespectful way. She 
said that other customers were also trying to get in  they werent threatened with the police. 
And she said they were addressed as sir/madam whereas she was not.
Barclays said theyd asked the branch manager to call Ms I to discuss what happened  so 
her complaint could be properly investigated. But theyd not been able to speak to Ms I.
Ms I brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into what had happened, including 
asking more questions of Barclays. Our investigator concluded that Ms I had stood by the 
branch doors  which meant they wouldnt close, as they were sensored and anyone 
standing there would prevent them from closing. This meant that more customers outside 
the branch wanted to get in as they could see the door was still open. At closing time  
theres a higher risk of raids and so the branch staff were anxious to close the doors 
because of this and told Ms I that if she didnt move the police would be called. Our 
investigator didnt think it was unreasonable of Barclays not to let Ms I into the branch in the 
circumstances.
Ms I didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I isnt complaining about the fact that the branch she went to closed earlier than shed 
been led to believe it would. It is unfortunate that it had closed earlier as its clear that Ms I 
was anxious to withdraw some cash as her card had stopped working and she needed to get 
home. It was a cold and snowy day, which made the situation worse. Im pleased to see that 
Ms I was able to get home, having failed to withdraw cash, as she had enough coins on her 
to pay for transport back. Her complaint is about the way she was treated when she tried to 
get into the branch. 
Barclays has told us that the branch door had a sensor which wouldnt allow it to close if 
someone was standing in its path  which Ms I was. And so, they couldnt close the branch. I 
accept this. Unfortunately, its also a fact that any bank branch is at a higher risk of a criminal 
raid at closing time. So, I also accept that Barclays had to get the door closed for that 
reason. I can understand why Ms I wanted to get into the branch  she wanted to withdraw 
cash to get home  but I can also understand why the staff wanted to get the door closed  it 
would be an anxious time for them too knowing when raids are more likely to take place.
Turning to Ms Is main complaint  she says she was discriminated against as she was 
treated differently from the other Barclays customers who were trying to get into the branch. 
She said she was threatened with the police - whereas other customers who the staff were 
turning away were being apologised to and being addressed as Sir or Madam. The way we 
look at this is - is someone treated less favourably than someone else because of a 
protected characteristic  in this case, Ms Is race. And  if we think its clear that Ms I was 
unreasonably being treated differently to other customers, then we could conclude she was 
treated unfairly. 
We asked Barclays directly about these issues.
Ms I has raised two points  that she was told the police would be called, and how she was 
addressed.
On the first point, Barclays told us that they did say to Ms I that they would call the police  
because she wouldnt move from the door and so they couldnt close it. And  they said that 
was posing a security risk to the branch. We asked Barclays if the branch had called the 
police before when a similar thing had happened. They told us that they had done so on 
previous occasions with other customers  who had also been advised the police would be 
called.  On the day in question, it was only Ms I who wouldnt accept that the branch was 
being closed. The other customers who were trying to get into the branch accepted it was 
being closed. And so  because Barclays actions here are in line with their general policy  
it doesnt appear that Ms I was treated any differently. On that basis, I cant conclude that Ms 
I was treated unfairly.
On Ms Is second point  about how she was addressed. We asked Barclays more about 
that. And when Ms I made her complaint to Barclays, they took a testimony from the member 
of staff involved. He said that he was upset at being accused of being racist by Ms I  he 
was trying to close the doors in order to close the branch  but couldnt because Ms I stood 
in the way and refused to move. And so, the doors remained open. I note that this evidence 
was in April 2021  so only two to three months after the incident  so we can give some 
credibility to it. But equally, Miss I gave her evidence straight away  she complained to 
Barclays within five days of the incident. So what she says must also be considered as 
credible. But without any third-party witness statements  its just not possible for me to 
conclude exactly what was said and in what tone. But what is evident is that the situation 
quickly because unpleasant for everyone involved. 
Ms I says that Barclays havent tried to call her to discuss her complaint. But weve seen 
Barclays internal notes which record that the branch manager has tried to call on several 
occasions. Barclays couldnt provide a call log or proof however  as the calls were made 
from the branch mobile phone, which arent logged.
Ms I says in her complaint that she feels Barclays discriminated against her given her 
experience. Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a 
matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I can understand why Ms I feels the way she does but having looked at all 
the evidence, on balance I dont think Barclays treated Ms I any differently because of who 
she was. Nor do I think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Ms I 
to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into her concerns.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman