DRN-4217172
The complaint
Miss T complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltds decision to 
decline a claim for the cost of an operation on her dog.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. Miss T and C&G can be assured that Ive read and considered all the 
evidence and information we have on file.
Miss T has pet insurance underwritten by C&G to cover her dog. She made a claim in 2022 
after the dog had to undergo surgery for a ruptured cruciate ligament. The cost was round 
£3,000.
C&G declined the claim. They said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
Miss T then made a complaint to C&G about their claim decision. But they maintained their 
position and said the decision to decline the claim was correct.
They said Miss T hadnt disclosed to them, when she bought the policy, that her dog had 
previously suffered associated problems with its hind legs. 
They said, in short, that if she had disclosed the dogs previous clinical history, they would 
have added endorsements to the policy which would have precluded any payment of a claim 
relating to his issues the dog had suffered in 2022. And theyd now added those 
endorsements retrospectively.
Miss T wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She wants C&G to 
pay the claim. She also said she had to take out credit to pay for the operation, which has 
cost her interest payments on the amount borrowed.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think C&G had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
She said they should settle the claim, pay interest on the settlement amount and remove the 
endorsements from the policy.
C&G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the terms and conditions set out in Miss Ts policy. Theres no dispute that these 
say C&G will not pay for treatment for conditions (including associated conditions) which first 
showed clinical signs or symptoms (whether the condition was diagnosed or not at that time) 
before the policy was taken out.
This is not an unusual policy term. Nor is it unfair. In short, you cant wait until your dog is ill 
or injured, only then insure it, and expect the insurer to pick up the bill for the treatment. 
The policy is also reasonably clear that C&G will only pay out for treatment or medication in 
the first 12 months after the date that the first signs or symptoms of an illness or injury were 
noticed.
Im satisfied that Miss T would or should have been aware of these terms and conditions 
before she took out the policy. They are made clear to the customer on-line during the 
process of purchasing the policy and/or in the documentation sent to the customer before 
they confirm their purchase.
C&G have somewhat complicated matters because in my view, theyve given three different 
(if to some extent related) reasons for declining Miss Ts claim. 
One - their final response to Miss Ts complaint says, in essence, that Miss T didnt tell them 
about the dogs clinical history when she bought the policy. And so, theyre entitled to amend 
the terms by adding endorsements  which they would have added had they known about 
the history at the time - and to deal with the claim on the basis of those amended terms.
Two - theyve said at various points that the claim isnt covered because the condition (or 
associated condition) pre-existed the purchase of the policy in November 2018.
Three  and theyve only raised this since we began to investigate the complaint  they say 
the treatment in March 2022 was for a condition that, if not pre-existing, at the very least 
manifested itself (showed clinical signs etc) more than 12 months before the claim was 
made.
Ill address these three potential reasons for declining the claim in the order Ive set them out 
above.
One  Miss T didnt tell C&G about the dogs clinical history
To be absolutely clear, its my view that C&G cant justify declining the claim on this basis. Ill 
explain why.
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act (CIDRA)  which is the 
relevant legislation  customers, when buying an insurance policy, are required to disclose 
information requested by the insurer. 
If they dont, then - in brief - insurers are entitled to either cancel the policy and decline any 
claims (if they wouldnt have offered a policy had they known the truth) or settle any claims 
based on the terms they would have offered had they known the truth.
That appears to be precisely what C&G say theyre doing in their final response letter to 
Miss T. 
Theyre basically saying that had they known the dogs clinical history, they would have 
offered Miss T a policy, but it would have had endorsements to say they werent covering 
certain conditions. And so, theyre entitled to add those endorsements retrospectively - and 
treat the claim as if those endorsements applied (i.e. decline it, in this case).
The problem with that argument is that CIDRA requires a customer to answer  to the best 
of their knowledge  the questions put to them by the insurer. And C&G have shown us 
exactly what Miss T would have been asked when she made the on-line application for her 
insurance policy.In short, she wasnt asked to declare the dogs clinical history. She was asked to give a yes 
or no answer to the question: Are you looking for insurance cover for pre-existing 
conditions?. She was also asked  and Ill come back to this later  whether she was 
concerned that after 12 months a condition is no longer covered?.
Miss T answered no to both of those questions. And then in effect confirmed she didnt 
want cover for pre-existing conditions  or for treatment after the first 12 months  when she 
agreed the policy schedule C&G sent her.
In summary, Miss T didnt fail to disclose information requested by C&G. She answered their 
questions perfectly well. She wasnt asked to disclose her dogs clinical history. And so, the 
remedies allowed an insurer when a customer makes a misrepresentation  that is, applying 
different terms retrospectively after a claim is made  werent available to C&G. 
In other words, C&G cant decline the claim based on different terms - retrospectively 
applied - on the basis that Miss T didnt tell them about the dogs clinical history at inception 
of the policy. Because they didnt ask her to disclose the dogs clinical history at the time.
Two  its a pre-existing condition (or associated condition)
When we look at this kind of case, we take the approach that - no matter what the policy 
terms say when strictly applied - its unfair to decline a claim because a condition was pre-
existing if the customer couldnt have reasonably known when they bought the policy that 
there was something wrong with their pet which might likely lead to some investigation or 
treatment.
The vets notes show that surgery Miss Ts dog had in 2022 was to repair a completely torn 
cruciate ligament in his left hind leg. 
C&G say that issue was the same as  or associated with  a condition which manifested in 
2018, before the policy was bought.
In May 2018, the vets notes show that the dog had surgery on his right hind leg (the other 
one) to address luxation (movement or slipping) of the patella. 
At the time, it was noted that the left patella was in place and that neither leg had any 
suspected tear or rupture in the ligaments. But the left patella did appear to have a palpable 
bump.
As I say, the question for me is whether that meant Mis T was aware  at the time  that 
there were any signs or symptoms of the condition which eventually led to the surgery in 
2022.
I dont think the vets notes support the idea that the 2022 condition was the same condition 
which manifested in 2018. Luxation of the patella in one leg isnt the same condition as a 
ruptured ligament in the other leg.
Its arguable that they are associated conditions. C&G have referred to research which 
seems to show an association between patella luxation and other problems with the joint  
including ligament tear or rupture.
But I come back to the question I have to ask  which is not whether the conditions are in 
fact associated, but whether Miss T might reasonably have known, in 2018, that the 
problems experienced with her dogs right patella (and the indications noted on the left 
patella) might lead to a need for treatment for ligament rupture in 2022.If Miss T did suspect  or should have suspected  in 2018 (before she bought the policy) 
that there might be ligament problems further down the line, then when she answered the 
question about whether she wanted cover for pre-existing conditions in the negative, she 
was in effect taking a risk she was aware of.
I have to bear in mind that Miss T isnt a vet herself. I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable, in May 2018, for Miss T to have thought that the vet who treated the dog had 
addressed the condition which presented itself at the time and put things right. I cant see 
any suggestion in the vets notes that they told Miss T future problems were likely and/or that 
the problem hadnt been fully addressed.
On balance then, Im satisfied that when Miss T took out a policy in 2018, knowingly 
choosing not to pay for additional cover for pre-existing conditions, she would have been 
aware that any further luxation of the patella would not be covered. But I dont think she 
would have been aware that cover for ruptured ligaments wouldnt be provided.
That being the case, its unfair to decline the claim in 2018 on the basis that the treatment 
provided was for a condition (or associated condition) which pre-existed the purchase of the 
policy. 
As I say, Im fully aware that the conditions may in fact be linked. But I dont believe Miss T 
suspected (or should have), when she bought the policy, that she wouldnt be covered for 
the kind of problem her dog suffered in 2022. Ultimately, its for C&G to ensure their 
customers understand what they are buying for the premiums they spend. 
And I note its C&Gs choice to ask the questions they do  in the way they do  at policy 
inception. If they had asked Miss T to disclose her dogs clinical history, Im sure she would 
have done so. If not theyd be entitled to decline the claim now. And if she had, they would 
presumably have offered a policy with endorsements - which Miss T could have chosen to 
take or leave.
Three  the condition treated in 2022 first manifested in 2020
Im not entirely surprised that C&G only raised this argument after our investigator gave her 
first view on the case, because in my view its arguably the weakest of the three.
In short, Miss T took her dog to the vets in September 2020 because he was limping and/or 
holding up his leg. The vet said thorough assessment was impossible because the dog was 
nervous and skittish. But there was no patella luxation apparent  and the problem might be 
due to a soft tissue injury.
The dog was on painkillers for a while and was undertaking hydrotherapy. X-rays under 
sedation and/or surgery were under consideration, but by early 2021 the dog appeared to 
have recovered and was reportedly doing fine. Pain medication and any other treatment 
ceased in around February 2021.
It's C&Gs view that this was the first manifestation of the problem eventually treated with 
surgery in March 2022. And therefore, the 12 months of cover for any one condition provided 
under the policy had run out some time around August 2021  12 months after the first 
consultation in September 2020, at which Miss T said the dog had been struggling for the 
previous three weeks.
However, theres more than a year between the end of treatment / observation in February 
2021 and the consultation in March 2022 which led to the surgery being undertaken. Its 
inconceivable that Miss T allowed her dog to suffer for a year or more before returning to the vets. So, I have to assume the problem in late 2020 / early 2021 did in fact clear up entirely.
Theres nothing in the vets notes - partly due to the difficulty examining the dog  to suggest 
the dog already had torn or ruptured ligaments in late 2020 / early 2021. And as I say, its 
very unlikely that if the same condition (or an associated one) persisted through to March 
2022, Miss T would have taken no further action in the meantime.
In short, theres no justification in the veterinary record  or in Miss Ts behaviour  to 
assume that the 2020/21 condition was the same as (or associated with) the issues which 
led to the surgery in 2022. And that being the case, it would be unfair for C&G to decline 
Miss Ts claim on that basis.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied on balance that it was unfair for C&G to 
decline Miss Ts claim for the costs associated with the surgery in March 2022.
So, C&G should now settle the claim, subject to any benefit limits set out in the policy terms.
Because Miss T has been deprived of the money  and has had to borrow to cover the cost 
of the surgery - C&G should also pay interest on the settlement amount at 8% simple.
This should be calculated from the start of May 2022  when the claim ought reasonably to 
have been paid  to the date the payment is now made. 
C&G should also remove from Miss Ts policy the endorsements added retrospectively after 
she made the claim. 
As Ive explained above, they werent entitled  under CIDRA  to add these endorsements 
because Miss T made no misrepresentation to them when she bought the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must:
settle Miss Ts March 2022 claim, subject to any benefit limits set out in the policy;
pay interest on the settlement amount at 8% simple, calculated from 1 May 2022 to 
the date the payment is eventually made; and 
remove from Miss Ts policy the endorsements added after she made the March 
2022 claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman