DRN-3468967
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society approved him for a series of loans, all of 
which he feels werent affordable for him at those times.
What happened
In September 2015, Mr F applied for a loan with Nationwide. His application was successful, 
and Mr F was approved for a £7,500 loan to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £154.08 
each.
Mr F subsequently applied for, and was approved for, two further new loans: In February 
2016 for £10,000 to be repaid over 60 months at £181.24 per instalment and in October 
2016 for £16,150 to be repaid over 60 months at £296.20 per instalment. For each of these 
new loans, when Mr F opened a loan he settled the previous loan shortly afterwards.
Finally, in May 2017 and August 2018 Mr F applied for two top up loans, taking his total 
amount of borrowing first to £20,524.24 and then to £21,161.17, to be paid over 84 months, 
at £333.75 per instalment.
In December 2020, Mr F raised a complaint with Nationwide as he felt that none of the loans 
had been affordable for him, and that this should have been apparent to Nationwide had 
they undertaken checks into his financial position before approving the loans.
Nationwide looked at Mr Fs complaint. They confirmed that theyd undertaken checks into 
his financial position before approving the loans, and that in all instances they felt that 
thered been nothing resulting from those checks that should have given them cause to 
suspect that Mr F wouldnt be able to afford the loans that he was applying for. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide 
had acted unfairly towards Mr F by approving his loan applications, and so they didnt uphold 
his complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time. 
September 2015 loan application.
When Mr F applied for the first loan in September 2015, Nationwide took information from   
him at the point of application about his income and aspects of his expenditure. Nationwide 
then applied this information to a model of Mr Fs financial position they created which 
included information about Mr Fs wider financial position obtained from a credit reference 
agency as well as estimates on some aspects of Mr Fs expenditure based on information 
from the Office of National Statistics (ONS).
The result of this was that Nationwide assessed Mr F as having a net monthly income at that 
time of £2,300, while having monthly essential expenditure which included £716 for his 
mortgage and £105 for Mr Fs other existing credit commitments. Finally, Nationwide used 
ONS data to estimate monthly expenditure amounts for Mr F of £625 for household spending 
and £81 for council tax. 
This meant that Nationwide assessed Mr Fs total monthly expenditure as being 
approximately £1,527, which taken against his net monthly income of £2,300 meant that 
Nationwide assessed Mr F as having approximately £773 per month that could be classed 
as disposable income. Because of this, Nationwide felt that Mr F would in all likelihood be 
able to afford the monthly loan repayments of £154 on the loan that he was applying for.
Additionally, Nationwide reviewed Mr Fs credit file at that time to gain a better understanding 
of his wider financial position. This confirmed that Mr F hadnt had any recent defaults or 
Country Court Judgements (CCJs) and which appeared to demonstrate that Mr F was 
managing his existing credit commitments without incident at that time. And in consideration 
of all this information, Nationwide approved Mr Fs loan application.
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and I feel that Nationwide did undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks into Mr Fs creditworthiness before approving him for the first loan 
in September 2015. And while I can appreciate that Mr F may feel that Nationwide using 
information from the ONS to estimate aspects of his expenditure didnt provide Nationwide 
with a full and proper picture of his financial position at that time, credit providers such as 
Nationwide were entitled to use such modelling techniques. 
Additionally, the amounts that Nationwide have modelled in this regard dont appear to be 
unrealistically low or high to me, and given the wide gap between the amount of disposable 
monthly income that Nationwide assessed for Mr F (£773) and the monthly payment that 
would be required on the loan that he was applying for (£154) I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable or unfair for Nationwide to have approved Mr F for this loan as they did.
February 2016 loan application.
Nationwide used a similar method of creditworthiness assessment for Mr F when he applied 
for the second loan in February 2016. At this time, they assessed Mr Fs net monthly income 
as being £2,200, as his total monthly expenditure as being approximately £1,707. This total 
monthly expenditure amount included considerations for Mr Fs mortgage, for his existing 
credit commitments  including the loan repayment for the first loan  for household income 
and for council tax.Nationwide assessed Mr F as having disposable monthly income of approximately £493 at 
that time. Given that the repayment for the newly applied for loan was scheduled to be £181 
per month, Nationwide felt that Mr F would, in all likelihood, be able to afford the new loan.
Finally, Nationwide reviewed Mr Fs credit file once again, which confirmed that Mr F hadnt 
had any recent defaults or CCJs and which appeared to demonstrate that Mr F was 
managing his existing credit commitments without incident at that time. And in consideration 
of all this information, Nationwide approved Mr Fs loan application. 
Again, this doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And while Mr Fs monthly disposable income 
amount had reduced when considered against the first loan application, I feel that the £493 
disposable monthly income amount was sufficiently high, even in consideration of any 
potential modelling inaccuracies, for it to have been fair and reasonable for Nationwide to 
have approved Mr F for this loan.
Finally, its notable that shortly after this second loan was opened in February 2016, that    
Mr F settled the first loan he took with Nationwide in September 2015.
October 2016 loan application.
When Mr F applied for the third loan in October 2016, he confirmed to Nationwide that his 
monthly net income had increased to £3,000. At that time, Nationwide assessed Mr F as 
having disposable monthly income of £1,044, and again this included considerations for     
Mr Fs monthly mortgage payments, monthly existing credit commitments  including the 
loan repayment for the February 2016 loan  monthly household spend, and monthly council 
tax payment.
Nationwide also reviewed Mr Fs credit file at this time, which continued to confirm that Mr F 
hadnt had any recent defaults or CCJs and which appeared to demonstrate that Mr F was 
managing his existing credit commitments without incident.
Given the large amount of monthly disposable income that Nationwide assessed Mr F as 
having, Nationwide felt that the monthly loan repayment for the third loan, which was 
scheduled to be £296.20 per month, would be affordable for him, and so they approved the 
loan. And again, this doesnt seem unreasonable or unfair to me.
And again, following the opening of the third loan in October 2016, Mr F settled the previous 
loan taken in February 2016 so that only the one loan was outstanding.
May 2017 loan application.
The fourth loan that Mr F applied for, in May 2016, was a top-up refinancing of the October 
2016 loan, with that prior loan being closed on the day that the fourth loan was opened.
At that time, Mr F confirmed to Nationwide that his net income remained at £3,000 per 
month, and Nationwide assessed Mr F as having disposable income of £1,063 per month 
using the same assessment basis as described previously. Whilst the topping up of the loan 
led to Mr F borrowing additional funds, his repayment amount remained around the same as 
with the previous loan, at £297 per month (over a longer term), which Nationwide felt would 
be affordable for Mr F at that time, given their understanding of his disposable income.
While Mr Fs credit file continued to show that Mr F wasnt in arrears on any of his existing 
credit commitments, it did show that Mr Fs total amount of other existing credit had 
increased slightly, but not to levels which I might feel should have given Nationwide any 
cause for concern at that time.Accordingly, given the high level of disposable income that Nationwide assessed Mr F as 
having, as well as the non-problematic nature of Mr Fs credit file and his good prior 
repayment history with Nationwide, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Nationwide to have approved this fourth loan application as they did.
August 2018 loan application.
The fifth loan that Mr F applied for, in August 2018, was also a top-up refinancing of the 
previous May 2017 loan, although this time it did lead to an increase in Mr Fs monthly loan 
repayments from £297 to £333.
Once again, the approval of this loan application by Nationwide appears reasonable to me. I 
say this because Mr F had confirmed that his net monthly income remained at £3,000, and 
because Nationwide had assessed Mr F to have had £748 disposable monthly income at 
that time  from which I feel it was fair for Nationwide to have considered the £333 projected 
monthly loan repayments to have been affordable.
Furthermore, once again Mr Fs credit file didnt include any information that I feel should 
have given Nationwide any reasonable cause for concern, and continued to appear to 
demonstrate that Mr F was maintaining his existing credit commitments without incident at 
that time.
Summary
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F was wanting here, but it follows from all the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further 
action at this time.
This is because Im satisfied that in respect of all five loan applications, Nationwide did 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks into Mr Fs creditworthiness before approving 
those loans, and that there was nothing resulting from those checks that should have given 
Nationwide any reasonable cause to suspect that Mr F might not be able to afford the loans 
he was applying for.
It must be noted that Im not declaring here that Mr F wasnt experiencing financial difficulty 
at those times, but only that Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to 
conclude that Mr F would in all likelihood be able to afford the loans on the basis of the 
information that they assessed  which as explained, Im satisfied did constitute reasonable 
and proportionate checks, in-line with Nationwides obligations.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr F was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman