DRN-3407147
The complaint
Miss B was scammed into purchasing vouchers using her debit card, totalling £700. Shes 
unhappy that Barclays didnt block her account or identify the transactions as being 
suspicious at the time. And she feels shes been treated unfairly by Barclays during the 
handling of her complaint.
What happened
Ill briefly summarise the facts of the case here as these have been clearly set out by the 
investigator previously. 
- Miss B was tricked into purchasing £700 worth of vouchers with a merchant which 
she gave to scammers.
- This occurred across 10 separate transactions, in the space 6 minutes.
- She didnt end up handing over the voucher codes as she became suspicious that 
something wasnt right.
- She called the police and Barclays to report the scam and asked Barclays to refund 
her.
- At the time she said she also spoke to the merchant to see if it would refund her but 
was told her bank was responsible for the refund.
Barclays reviewed what happened and said, at the time of reporting the scam, Miss B was 
offered to log a fraud dispute which she did not want to do. On review, it said logging a fraud 
dispute would not have been the correct step anyway as Miss B made the payments herself 
and its systems didnt deem the transactions as fraudulent. 
Barclays went on to say it did not monitor individual spending habits. The type of account 
she held would not change the outcome of the complaint and her vulnerabilities, at the time 
of the scam, had been considered. It suggested she contact the merchant to return the 
vouchers as they had not been used. And it offered to credit Miss Bs account with £50 as 
recognition for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues raised.
Miss B was unhappy with Barclays response. She:
- Rejected the offer, as she said it didnt represent the failures on the Barclays part.
- Said there was no acknowledgement of the serious failures by Barclays.
- Said her vulnerabilities and bank account status had not been considered when 
Barclays investigated the matter.
- Said the complaint included significant negligence, maladministration and failure to 
address a serious crime and Barclays duty towards a disabled and vulnerable 
customer.
- Brought the complaint to our service and when she did so she explained shed 
received a full refund from the merchant.
One of our investigators looked into things, she asked for some additional information about 
the scam and Miss Bs interactions with the scammers. Miss B responded to say she 
believed she had already provided this information and didnt provide any further responses 
to the investigators questions or requests for further evidence. 
Barclays provided two call recordings (as part of its evidence) where Miss B reported the 
scam. The investigator also considered these as part of her investigation. 
The investigator summarised the complaint based on the information she already had at the 
time Miss B first raised the complaint and said:
- When telling us about the complaint Miss B said that the money had been refunded 
by the merchant.
- Barclays systems did not pick up the transactions as being unusual or suspicious and 
she didnt think this was incorrect. 
- The explanation that Barclays gave during the two calls Miss B had with them wasnt 
correct, but it didnt mean that it could stop the transactions and so it wouldnt have 
made a difference to the outcome overall.
- Whilst Barclays gave incorrect information it already acknowledged this in its final 
response letter.
- She considered whether Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances, given the 
concerns Miss B raised about her vulnerabilities and discrimination, and thought that 
it had.
- She said that Barclays acknowledged its poor customer service and offered £50 in 
compensation and she felt this amount was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the complaint. 
Miss B disagreed and asked for someone else to look into her complaint. She hasnt 
explained what she disagreed with, in terms of the investigators findings, or why. But the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered everything Im not recommending that Barclays pay anything 
further to Miss B. For largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.
The payments and Barclays responsibilities
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Barclays is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customers authorise it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for those
transactions that have been properly authorised. I have taken that into account when
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. So, I need to decide whether Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B when the payments debited her 
account, or whether it shouldve done something more.
The payments from Miss Bs account were authorised by her. Whilst I appreciate, she was 
tricked into making the payments, for the purposes of the Payment Service Regulations 
(PSRs) 2017, they were still authorised by Miss B. And Ive explained above, Barclays had 
an obligation to follow Miss Bs payment instructions. 
Barclays has a duty of care to protects its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so 
far as reasonably possible. But it also has to balance that with the requirement to carry out 
authorised payment instructions without causing delays. Ive considered whether there was anything about the circumstances surrounding the 
payments that could have put Barclays on notice that they were being made as part of a 
scam. And I dont think there was. The payments were individually low value, each being 
£50 or £100. And although they were made in quick succession, in total they arent for a 
large amount either. Miss B uses this merchant regularly and uses her card and account 
regularly with multiple transactions a day. The payments didnt reduce the account balance 
significantly - over £7,000 remained in the account. So although the transactions are made 
quickly, I dont think they were so unusual that Barclays should have been concerned Miss B 
was at risk of financial harm. So I dont think Barclays made an error by not intervening when 
Miss B made these payments. 
I dont agree with the reasons Barclays has given for not intervening, I think it could have 
explained this more clearly. But as Ive set out, I dont think it needed to intervene or stop the 
payments in any event. 
Advice given by Barclays
I think it was correct for Barclays to advise Miss B to contact the merchant to see if it could 
refund the payments. Miss B had purchased vouchers which hadnt been redeemed and 
could potentially be returned and then refunded. And it appears that ended up being the 
case as Miss B told our service the merchant refunded her. 
Barclays actions when it was notified of the scam
Ive gone on to listen to the calls Miss B had with Barclays on two consecutive days, when 
initially reporting the scam. Ive done so to consider both Barclays actions when Miss B 
notified it of the scam, and also her claim that she was treated unfairly. Ill deal with Barclays 
actions first. 
At the time of reporting the scam Miss B was told the payments couldnt be stopped. Miss B 
wasnt willing to accept that was the case. Eventually the call handler agreed that she could 
attempt to reverse the transactions but that wouldnt necessarily stop the merchant from 
requesting and then debiting the funds from her account. Barclays was correct to tell Miss B 
that she had already authorised the payments and so the merchant was entitled to debit her 
account. During the call Miss B was promised that the payments would be reversed, and this 
happened.
Its clear, during the call, that Miss B also understood the merchant could still take the 
payments. And, if it did, then she said she agreed to call up again and see what Barclays 
could do to try and stop them another way.
In her correspondence with us Miss B has said she was promised a refund. But listening 
carefully to the calls I dont agree. Its clear Miss B feels she is entitled to a refund and she 
says she was advised this should come from the bank but that isnt what she is told during 
the calls Ive listened to. 
Even if Miss B had been told she would receive a refund, which I dont think she was, I dont 
think this is a fair or reasonable basis to say Barclays is liable for the transactions, given 
what Ive said above. And Miss B has already received a full refund so I wouldnt be asking 
Barclays to refund this money again even if it might have been responsible for a refund for 
some other reason. It wouldnt be fair for Miss B to receive the money back twice. I would 
only be looking to award any compensation which Ill go on to address.
Miss Bs claim she was treated unfairlyI can appreciate that this whole experience would have had a significant impact on Miss B 
and she was the victim of a scam. The scammer was ultimately responsible for causing this 
harm and distress. Its my role to consider Barclays actions after these events. And although 
I think Barclays could have been clearer in its explanation, I cant see that Miss B has been 
treated unfairly.
 
Barclays has already offered to pay £50 in compensation. I dont think it made any errors in 
processing the payments in the first instance or made any errors when it was placed on 
notice of the scam. I do think it could have explained the reasons for not upholding Miss Bs 
complaint more clearly and considered its obligations as I have set out above. But I think the 
£50 compensation is a fair payment in recognition of this. Ill leave it to Miss B to decide 
whether to accept the £50 compensation from Barclays.
When Miss B raised the claim with us she says she kept telling the Barclays call handlers 
that she needed to terminate the calls as she was unwell and that the call handler ignored 
this. I havent heard this in either of the calls I have listened to. 
Overall I think the call handler listened to Miss Bs concerns and attempted to address them. 
So based on these calls and the other correspondence Ive seen, Im not persuaded Miss B 
has been treated unfairly or that Barclays needs to do more than it already has, to address 
its complaint handling matters here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman