DRN-2328784
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with issues caused by The New India Assurance Company Limited (New 
India) when dealing with a claim under her car insurance. She feels the compensation 
offered by them isnt reasonable.
 
All references to New India include agents appointed to act on New Indias behalf. 
What happened
Miss W contacted New India following an accident. Her car was declared a total loss and 
she accepted New Indias offer for the pre-accident value. The claim was settled with a 
payment being made to a finance company who had given Miss W finance for the car.
  
Miss W was unhappy about events which occurred during the claim process so she 
complained to New India. She said she had to wait over three hours for a recovery vehicle 
on the day of the accident and about delay in retrieving her car from storage. She was also 
concerned about delay in making payment to a finance company.
 
New India responded and accepted there had been delay in a recovery vehicle attending the 
scene of the accident and a delay in making payment to a finance company. New India also 
accepted that it had taken around three weeks for the repairers to retrieve her car due to 
miscommunication with the storage company. They offered £300 compensation for the 
inconvenience to Miss W.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss W and felt there had been errors in New Indias 
handling of the claim. She recommended that, as well as the £300 compensation, New India 
should pay Miss W two months hire purchase payments totalling £366.54. New India 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ive decided the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. Ill explain why.   
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Miss W in relation to the delays. The key facts 
about this complaint arent in dispute. New India have admitted they got things wrong when 
the recovery vehicle delayed in attending the accident scene, they delayed in paying the 
finance company and the delay in retrieving Miss Ws car from storage. I agree the service 
has been unreasonable here so I uphold the complaint. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether the remedy theyve offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that New India should compensate Miss W for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service throughout this claim. An accident is a stressful event so 
consumers look to their insurers to help them through the process and to cause minimal 
impact to an already worrying situation. That hasnt happened here and its understandable 
Miss W was caused inconvenience and upset by the various delays and having to chase for 
updates. I feel its reasonable for New India to pay compensation and I think £300 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
While the claim was being handled, Miss W had to make two payments to the finance 
company. Ive seen from evidence provided by Miss W that one was made on 29 October 
2019 and another on 29 November, both were for the amount £183.27. Miss W feels these 
should be refunded because, had the claim been settled sooner, she wouldnt have had to 
make these payments. So, Ive considered whether these payments couldve been avoided 
had there been no delays. New India have said Miss Ws car was collected by the repairer 
on 8 October and, following assessment of the damage, a pre-accident value offer was 
made to Miss W on 17 October. Miss W then accepted the offer on 19 October. This gave 
New India 10 days in which to settle the payment to the finance company before the October 
payment became due. Claim notes provided by New India show the first attempt at raising 
this payment was made on 30 October, and appears to have been prompted by Miss W 
making a complaint. This payment was rejected due to an error by New India and the 
payment wasnt received by the finance company until 29 November. 
Taking this into account, I feel 10 days was sufficient time for New India to settle the 
payment with the finance company. I also cant ignore the fact that Miss Ws car wasnt 
collected from storage until three weeks after she reported the accident. Looking at the 
timeframe as a whole  and starting from the date Miss W reported the accident, New India 
had six weeks to settle the payment to the finance company before the October payment 
became due. And, Ive seen that Miss W did tell New India she was still paying the finance 
company. The industry standards set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) requires an insurer to handle claims promptly. That hasnt happened here and, from 
the information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, the October and November 
payments couldve been avoided had New India handled Miss Ws claim promptly. So, New 
India should refund both of these payments to Miss W.
   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that New India didnt handle Miss Ws claim promptly and, as a 
consequence, shes incurred two finance payments which couldve been avoided. So, New 
India should refund these to her together with 8% interest per year simple from the date they 
were paid, until theyre reimbursed. Theres also been delays so New India should pay 
compensation of £300 to reflect the inconvenience and upset to Miss W.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. The New India Assurance Company Limited 
must:
Refund the sum of £366.54 to Miss W together with simple interest on this amount at 
the rate of 8% a year* from the date they were paid until the date of settlement; and
Pay compensation to Miss W in the sum of £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires The New India Assurance Company Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. The New India Assurance Company Limited must give Miss W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman