DRN-1557170
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage with Santander UK Plc. When they 
separated in February 2019, Mrs R agreed a reduced payment arrangement with Santander 
on the phone. She says she wasnt told with sufficient clarity that it would adversely affect 
their credit rating; merely that it could.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. I dont think Santander did anything 
wrong when it told Mrs R on the phone that the arrangement could affect their credit rating. 
In my view, thats a reasonable statement aimed at informing consumers of a potential 
consequence of a course of action theyre considering taking. But in any event, that wasnt 
the only information Santander expected Mr and Mrs R to rely on. Thats because it wrote 
out on 8 February 2019 to confirm the agreement.
If there was any doubt or uncertainty from the phone call that the arrangement would result 
in arrears which would be reported on Mr and Mrs Rs credit file, Im satisfied the following 
passages from the 8 February letter would have removed any ambiguity.
From page one;
As agreed, you'll contact us again at the end of this initial arrangement so we can agree the
repayments towards the arrears going forward.
and from page two;
We provide account information to credit reference agencies. Failure to pay your mortgage 
may affect your future ability to obtain credit.
Its reasonable to conclude from this that Santander put Mr and Mrs R on written notice that 
the arrangement would be reported on their credit file, and how it might potentially affect 
them going forward. 
If Mr and Mrs R werent happy to proceed on that basis, they had the option, on receiving the 
letter, to call Santander again and cancel the arrangement. They didnt do so, and theres 
nothing in the evidence provided that suggests an alternative course of action Mr and Mrs R 
could have taken. It seems to me, in all the circumstances, that the reduced payment 
arrangement had to go ahead. 
But even if the reduced payment arrangement hadnt gone ahead, the mortgage would still 
have fallen in to arrears, (because the monthly payment wasnt affordable in those two 
months) and those arrears would still have had to be reported on Mr and Mrs Rs credit file. 
And the reporting of arrears caused by non-receipt of the full payment would arguably cause 
a greater degree of detriment to their credit rating than reporting arrears caused by the 
payment of a lesser amount by mutual agreement. 
All of that, put together, means theres no basis for me to find that the credit file entries 
should be removed or amended in any way. Santanders response to the complaint was to 
capitalise the post-arrangement arrears and pay Mr and Mrs R £200. That was a very 
generous gesture, and exceeds any award I would have made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Santander UK Plc. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman