DRN-2221364
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Available Car Ltd. He isnt happy about the way it sold a motor 
warranty policy to him and that it turned down his claim.
What happened
Mr H took out a warranty with Available Car when he bought his car. The warranty was 
intended to be an extension to the manufacturers warranty when that expired. And when he 
made two claims under the policy (in relation to his water pump and seal and inlet manifold) 
they were turned down. Available Car declined the claims for wear and tear suggesting that 
the parts had reached the end of their normal working lives. 
So, Mr H complained to Available Car and then this service. He thought the policy had been 
mis-sold. Mr H said that he drove about 24,000 miles a year and so he thought that he 
couldnt benefit from the extended warranty. This was because he thought that all parts of 
the car would most likely have reached the end of their normal working lives given the level 
of mileage he did per year and the way Available Car had interpreted this exclusion under 
the policy.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and agreed with Available Car that he would also 
look into whether the claim was declined fairly or not. Having done so he concluded that the 
policy hadnt been mis-sold but felt that the claim should be met. This was because he didnt 
think Available Car had undertaken sufficient enquiries to say that the life expectancy of the 
parts had been reached and so it didnt have sufficient evidence to exclude the claim due to 
wear and tear.
As Available Car didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. And as Mr H seems to accept our investigators explanation about the mis-sale I will 
mainly focus on the decline of the claim. And whether that was fair in the circumstances. 
Im satisfied, from the information before me, that Available Car made it clear in the 
documentation at the time of sale how the policy worked. And that Mr H had time to consider 
the policy and its suitability during the cooling off period, so he couldve cancelled it if he 
wished. The documentation included a statement of demands and needs and confirmation 
that Mr H had the chance to read the terms and conditions of the policy at that time.
Turning to the claim itself I can understand Available Cars position. But as our investigator 
explained I need to be satisfied that it acted fairly in turning down the claim due to wear and 
tear and I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Available Cars warranty covers the sudden and unforeseen failure of a mechanical or 
electrical part. And, in line with most warranties, it has an exclusion for wear and tear which 
it has relied on in turning down Mr Hs claim. But, as our investigator explained this service 
feels it is only fair to rely on this clause if it has shown that there is sufficient evidence to 
show that parts have come to the end of their normal working lives. And I dont think 
Available Car has sufficient evidence to show this.
In relation to the water pump it hasnt provided any independent evidence to show that the 
part had come to the end of its natural working life  so I cant say it would be fair to exclude 
this claim due to wear and tear. And, although it referred the seal and inlet manifold to an 
independent engineer, it hasnt provided any corroborating evidence from the manufacturer 
of the normal life expectancy of these parts. This is despite our investigator giving Available 
Car the opportunity to evidence its position further when the matter was being investigated 
by this service.
Given all of this, I dont think it would be fair to decline the claims without sufficient evidence 
to say the parts wore out prematurely. So I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the 
particular circumstances of this case is for Available Car to pay the claims. And add 8% 
simple interest for the time Mr H has been without the money in line with our usual approach.
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think this complaint should be partly upheld. I 
require Available Car Ltd to pay Mr H the cost of replacing the water pump, seal and inlet 
manifold. And pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman