DRN-2685523
The complaint
Mr T complains that advice deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (trading as Workplace 
Solutions) gave him to transfer deferred benefits from a defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension plan was unsuitable.
Mr T is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
It appears that in 2015 the trustees of Mr Ts defined benefits (DB) occupational pension 
scheme arranged for Workplace Solutions to provide advice to deferred members of the 
scheme. 
Workplace Solutions has explained that Mr Ts former employer paid for him to receive 
advice on what it called a Flexible Retirement Offer. It said that if Mr T went ahead with its 
recommendation it would charge him £500 for setting up the recommended personal 
pension. If Mr T didnt go ahead with its recommendation, he wouldnt have been charged a 
fee.
At the time the advice was given Workplace Solutions recorded that Mr T:
- was 61 years old, married and had 4 children, two of whom were still living at home;
- was employed and earning an annual salary of £44,000;
- was contributing to a defined benefit pension scheme with his current employer (this 
pension pot was valued at around £56,000);
- was in receipt of an occupational pension from a former employer of £11,000 each year;
- had around £3,000 in deposit-based savings and around £4,500 in equities;
- owned his home with an outstanding mortgage of £30,000; and
- intended to retire at age 65.
The deferred DB pension that Workplace Solutions advised Mr T to transfer had a transfer 
value of over £119,300. 
Mr Ts attitude to investment risk was recorded as average.
Workplace Solutions issued a suitability report in August 2015. The report said that Mr T 
wanted to transfer his deferred DB pension to a personal pension in order to access his tax-
free cash lump sum. It said he wanted access to the tax-free cash to pay for various projects 
including home improvements, helping his children, and reducing his mortgage. It also said 
that Mr T wanted flexibility, especially around access to benefits, future death benefits, 
protecting your pension fund and the facility to nominate your beneficiaries.
Mr T went ahead with the recommendation. The transfer value of £119,302.80 was moved to 
a cash account. Mr T then took the tax-free cash lump sum of £29,825.57 and invested the 
remaining balance in two funds via a new personal pension plan that Workplace Solutions 
had arranged for him. 
In mid-2020 Mr Ts representative complained about the advice Mr T had received. It said it 
felt the advice wasnt suitable for his personal and financial circumstances. And it said 
Workplace Solutions hadnt adequately explained to Mr T the benefits and guarantees of the 
DB scheme that he was being advised to give up. It noted that the critical yield  the amount 
Mr Ts pension pot would need to grow by each year to match (not better) the benefits he 
was giving up in the occupational scheme - was very high. 
It also said it did not think Mr T had the capacity for loss and it said Workplace Solutions 
should not have advised Mr T to go ahead with the pension transfer.
Workplace Solutions did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary it said it was satisfied that 
its advice had met Mr Ts stated objectives.
Mr T was not satisfied with Workplace Solutions response and his representative referred 
the matter to this service.
Having carefully considered the matter our investigator said she thought Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld.
She explained that, when considering whether or not to transfer a defined benefit pension 
plan, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out that an adviser 
should, as a starting point, assume that transferring would be unsuitable and would need to 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in the clients best interests. 
COBS19.1.6 sets out 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
She said that, in order to assess whether the transfer was suitable, she had considered 
whether there was a reasonable chance that Mr T would be better off in retirement if he went 
ahead with Workplace Solutions recommendation to transfer his deferred DB benefits to a 
personal pension. 
She said that a transfer that resulted in a similar, or worse, level of benefit was unlikely to be 
considered suitable, when the risk of losing the guaranteed benefits of the occupational 
scheme were taken into account, unless there were other, highly motivating factors to risk a 
transfer that could leave a consumer worse off.
She noted that the transfer analysis (TVAS) report, carried out in July 2015, gave a critical 
yield (the amount of growth required each year to match the value of the benefits available 
from the occupational scheme) at age 65 of 23.9% per year without taking tax free cash, or 
15.4% per year if a tax-free lump sum was taken.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, but the investigator said she felt they 
provided a useful indication of the growth rates that would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given.The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension scheme 
benefits at retirement was 15.4% per year. However, she noted that the most appropriate 
discount rate was 3.3% per year for a consumer with 3 years to retirement. She explained 
this meant that an annual growth rate of 3.3% was considered to be reasonably achievable if 
Mr T took his pension benefits at age 65. 
So, for Mr Ts pension pot to grow sufficiently to match (not exceed) the benefits Mr T was 
being advised to give up, his pension pot needed to grow by at least 12.1% more each year 
than the growth rate considered to be reasonably achievable.
Our investigator said that in order for the transfer to be viable, she felt there needed to be a 
reasonably achievable opportunity to exceed the critical yield in order to improve the benefits 
 otherwise she could not safely find that it would be in Mr Ts best interests to give up the 
guaranteed benefits available in the occupational scheme.
She acknowledged that Mr T may not have wanted to replicate the benefits he was being 
advised to give up. But she said she felt that as it was very unlikely that Mr Ts pension pot 
would achieve the investment growth needed to match or better the benefits he would have 
received from the occupational scheme she didnt think the advice could be considered to be 
suitable. 
She said that, given that this pension pot represented a significant part of Mr Ts retirement 
savings, his personal circumstances at the time the advice was given, and that he only had a 
three year time frame before he wanted to retire she didnt think he had the capacity to bear 
any significant losses with this pension.
She noted that Mr T would have been entitled to a pension of £7,162 per year or a reduced 
pension of £4,297 per year and a tax free-lump sum of £28,647 at age 65 from his DB 
scheme. The scheme would also have provided a lump sum amount equal to two times the 
accrued pension at the date of death and a spouses pension of 37.5% of the members 
pension.
As Mr T was over 55 years old, he would have been able to take his benefits immediately 
from his occupational scheme. But, as he was still working and was a higher rate tax payer 
at the time the advice was given Workplace Solutions advised Mr T to transfer his deferred 
DB benefits to a personal pension and take the TFCLS immediately and invest his remaining 
pension pot. 
The investigator said she wasnt satisfied that Mr Ts objective of releasing his TFCLS was 
sufficiently important for Workplace Solutions to have advised him to give up the valuable 
benefits and guarantees available from the occupational scheme. 
In particular, she noted that Mr T said he had only used around £8,500 of the tax-free cash 
he had withdrawn. As Mr T hadnt spent the funds straight away our investigator said she felt 
this showed that Mr T didnt have a pressing need for a lump sum. She also noted that 
although Mr T only had limited savings, he had no debts aside from his mortgage and there 
was nothing to suggest that he had an urgent need for the tax-free cash.
Likewise, she noted that the suitability report said Mr T wanted flexibility with his pension 
especially around access to benefits, future death benefits, protecting your pension fund 
and the facility to nominate your beneficiaries. But she said there was insufficient evidence 
to explain why this was more important to Mr T than a guaranteed income in retirement. 
Having considered all the information available she said she was not satisfied that the advice 
Workplace Solutions gave Mr T to transfer his deferred DB pension benefits was suitable.In order to put matters right she said Workplace Solutions should, as far as possible, put 
Mr T in the position he would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice. She said Workplace 
Solutions should also pay Mr T £250 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused him.
Workplace Solutions did not accept our investigators view. It provided a detailed response 
reiterating that it felt the advice it had provided to Mr T was suitable. It said, in summary:
-  We are confident that the advice process provided the client with a sound basis on which 
to assess the merits and downsides of his plan for this part of his retirement assets.
- The client provided a sound set of objectives; wants and needs and the adviser made a 
recommendation which met those objectives; wants and needs.
- The adviser provided significant risk warnings both in discussion and in writing.
- The adviser did not seek to mislead the client that he would be better off.
- The advice letter documents strong warnings about the risks associated with seeking to 
beat the scheme benefits in a race.
- The adviser stated in discussion and writing that the firm does not recommend transfers on 
a race against the scheme basis.
- The critical yield argument in the adjudication is flawed.
- The client provided sufficient contemporary evidence that he had a clear plan, understood 
the nature of decision he was making, the risks he was taking.
- The adviser met the regulatory requirements, particularly the Client Best Interests rule 
(COBS 2.1) and Suitability requirements (COBS 9.2 ff) and the specifics of pension transfer 
recommendations (COBS 19.1 ff).
- Therefore the adviser was justified in making the recommendation because the client was 
making an informed decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the advice Workplace Solutions gave Mr T to transfer his 
deferred DB scheme benefits to a personal pension plan was suitable. Ill explain why.
I note that Workplace Solutions has provided a very detailed response to this service. We 
are an informal dispute resolution service and I am not required to address every point 
raised. I have instead focussed on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint.
growth required to match scheme benefits
In its response to this service Workplace Solutions said it didnt think it was reasonable for 
our investigator to have considered the level of growth Mr Ts pension pot would need to 
achieve each year, to match the level of benefits he would be entitled to from his defined 
benefits pension, when assessing whether the advice to transfer was suitable. It said:
We made it abundantly clear in the advice report and advisory process that there were no 
grounds under which we would set the client in a race against a final salary scheme, since 
that was bound to be lost. The only reason for transferring would be because the client 
wished to take their benefits in a different shape to those available in the scheme. The 
client's plan for these benefits meant that the only way to meet it was by transferring - the 
benefit shape required was not available in the scheme.As the investigator set out, in order to match the benefits Mr T would be entitled to from the 
occupational scheme he was being advised to give up, at a retirement age 65, the growth 
required was 15.4% per year if tax free cash was taken. 
The closest discount rate published by this service for this period was 3.3% per year for a 
consumer with 3 years to retirement. So, in order to match the benefits Mr T was being 
advised to give up, his pension pot would need to grow by, at least 12.1% more each year 
than the growth rate considered reasonably achievable.
I think these figures showed what would be relinquished, in monetary terms, by transferring. 
It is not in dispute that Workplace Solutions provided warnings on the guarantees Mr T was 
giving up. But, as Workplace Solutions will appreciate, risk warnings alone dont make 
unsuitable advice suitable. Workplace Solutions needed to be satisfied, before providing its 
recommendation, that giving up the guarantees and taking on the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mr T.
Workplace Solutions says that when considering the suitability of its advice what was 
important to Mr T was the shape of the benefits and that it had given Mr T  strong 
warnings about the risks associated with seeking to beat the scheme benefits in a race.
I am mindful of Workplace Solutions position, but the prospect of an alternative arrangement 
not matching the scheme benefits, in monetary terms, on the basis of reasonable 
assumptions does make it all the more important that the other reasons for transferring were 
sufficiently compelling. I have therefore carefully considered these reasons.
requirement for a lump sum
Workplace Solutions says, The client provided a sound set of objectives; wants and needs 
and the adviser made a recommendation which met those objectives; wants and needs.
In the suitability report the adviser set out that:
Initially you require the tax free cash amount (PCLS) which you will use for various projects, 
including home improvements, financially helping out your children and concentrate on 
reducing your mortgage pre-retirement, followed in the later years by taxable income as you 
finish work. You find the flexibility of this type of plan to suit your needs, especially around 
access to benefits, future death benefits, protecting your pension fund and the facility to 
nominate your beneficiaries.
It isnt clear to me why Mr T needed to access the tax-free cash from this pension at that 
time, as there did not appear to be any pressing need for a lump sum. I am mindful that Mr T 
told our investigator that he had only used around £8,500 of the tax-free cash. As Mr T 
hadnt spent the funds straight away our investigator said she felt this showed that Mr T 
didnt have a pressing need for a lump sum. She also noted that although Mr T only had 
limited savings, he had no debts aside from his mortgage and there was nothing to suggest 
that he had an urgent need for the tax-free cash.
Ive carefully considered whether Mr T could have met his objective of accessing a lump sum 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by his occupational pension scheme.
I accept that there was no facility for Mr T to take tax free cash from his occupational 
scheme without also starting to take an income.
If, for whatever reason, Mr T did need to access a lump sum  and it appears he gifted 
around £5,500 of the tax free cash to his family  I think Workplace Solutions should have encouraged Mr T to think carefully about what size lump sum he actually required and then 
explored with Mr T other ways of raising this money, for example by using his existing 
savings, taking out a personal loan or if necessary increasing his mortgage borrowing. 
I am also mindful that Mr T had told Workplace Solutions that he was able to comfortably 
cover your normal household monthly expenditure, providing surplus monthly income. As 
this is the case it appears it may also have been possible for Mr T to use this surplus income 
to assist his family. 
It is not clear to me why the only option Workplace Solutions discussed with Mr T to meet his 
(rather vague) objectives of providing  opportunities to assist with home improvements, 
financially helping out your children and possibly help to reduce your mortgage was taking 
the money from his deferred DB pension   a course of action that Workplace Solutions has 
acknowledged, meant that Mr T  would in all likelihood be worse off by taking this route.
Having carefully considered this objective I am not satisfied that Workplace Solutions should 
have advised Mr T to transfer his deferred DB pension benefits in order to meet his objective 
of having a good source of savings and flexible access to income within the personal 
pension.
My view is that the defined benefits should not have been relinquished lightly in order to 
satisfy a rather vague requirement to access a lump sum from this pension. And I think Mr T 
could in any case have met any need he might have had for a lump sum by using his 
existing savings, or taking on a small personal loan for the lump sum he actually required, or 
even using his surplus monthly income to assist his family instead.
requirement to take their benefits in a different shape to those available in the scheme
In the suitability report Workplace Solutions set out that:
By transferring to the Aviva Platform you will be able to access your funds as you wish when 
you retire. You will be able to take a higher level of income in the early years and reduce this 
as your other pensions come into payment, or your income needs reduce. It is important to 
realise that if you take too much, or even all of your fund, in the early years, your income in 
later in life will be lower.
It is not clear to me why, if Mr T wished to take a higher level of income in the early years, 
Workplace Solutions didnt advise Mr T to use his defined contribution pension pot for this 
purpose. I am mindful that in its response to our investigators view Workplace Solutions 
said:
His current employment had, at the time of advice, provided a pension fund value of £56,000 
and 20% of his salary was being contributed to this arrangement, which amounts to over 
£30,000 over the expected 3.5 years to retirement, giving a total fund of £86,000 ignoring 
potential growth or losses.
Given the potential size of this pension pot it seems to me all the more important that 
Workplace Solutions should have taken it into account when advising Mr T on the shape in 
which he might take his pension benefits.
I think any requirement Mr T might have had regarding changing the shape of his benefits 
could have been met by using his defined contribution pension pot whilst retaining the 
valuable benefits of this DB scheme.I am also mindful that the adviser noted that Mr T wanted an income in retirement of around 
£25,000 from all sources.
At the time the advice was given Mr T was already in receipt of a pension of around £11,000 
each year from a former employer. The DB pension Workplace Solutions advised Mr T to 
give up would have provided Mr T with a guaranteed pension of over £7,000 per year (if he 
didnt take any tax-free cash). This, plus Mr Ts state pension would have met his objective 
of having an income in retirement of around £25,000. He would then still have been able to 
take a tax-free cash lump sum from his defined contribution pension pot and used the 
remaining fund to provide a flexible source of income in retirement. 
Instead, Workplace Solutions advised Mr T to give up the valuable guaranteed income from 
this DB pension in order to change the shape of his benefit. In the circumstances of this 
complaint I dont think any perceived advantage of taking the benefits from this pension in a 
different shape outweighed the long-term financial disadvantage Mr T was likely to suffer as 
a result of this advice.
Death benefits
Workplace Solutions says Mr T had,  a strong preference for the Aviva Pension Portfolio 
products due to the death benefit feature, which allows you to pass on the residual fund onto 
your nominated beneficiary.
In other words, after the transfer, in the event of Mr Ts death a lump sum would be payable 
to his beneficiaries, rather than in the form of a spouses pension from the scheme.
I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ts benefits. 
Firstly, it does not appear that he had any particular health issues at the time the advice was 
given which would mean that the death benefits, or the likelihood that he would not benefit 
from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a reasonable 
amount of time, were of particular concern.
Secondly, the accrued pension provision was intended to provide for Mr Ts retirement rather 
than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy to his family. I accept that the financial wellbeing of 
his family would inevitably have been a priority for Mr T, but the recommendation needed to 
be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ts best interests in terms of his retirement needs.
And under the DB schemes terms, Mr Ts wife would in any case have been entitled to a 
spouses pension, if Mr T pre-deceased her. 
It isnt clear from the information recorded at the time the advice was given, why Workplace 
Solutions didnt consider advising Mr T to take out additional life cover if he wanted to leave 
a lump sum for his family, rather than transferring his defined benefits pension. And there is 
nothing that sets out why a lump sum was so important to Mr Ts family that it would justify a 
transfer of Mr Ts guaranteed benefits.
I accept that Mr T had an entirely understandable desire to leave a financial legacy to his 
family, but this objective could have been met by taking out additional life cover. I dont think 
it was of sufficient importance to justify Mr T compromising the security of his own 
retirement.
I do understand that a lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some 
situations the ability to pass a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous 
when compared to an income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but I dont think the right conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Mr T retaining his 
deferred benefits were present here.
I think the objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against 
the guaranteed benefits Mr T was relinquishing, and I think Workplace Solutions should have 
advised Mr T that his own financial security in retirement should take priority.
So, for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ts family 
by way of transferring his defined benefits pension constituted sufficient reason to transfer 
and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr T.
Summary 
Ive very carefully considered whether the advice provided to Mr T was suitable based on his 
personal and financial circumstances. Workplace Solutions says,
The advice to transfer was based on providing the client with benefits in a different form 
more suited to meeting his objectives. It was not about providing higher benefits and, as we 
demonstrate below, nor could it be.
As I set out above, I dont think any perceived advantage of taking his pension benefits in a 
different form outweighed the guaranteed benefits of the DB scheme Mr T was advised to 
give up. And I dont think that Mr Ts requirement for a lump sum was sufficiently pressing 
that he should have been advised to give up the benefits of his DB scheme. This is 
particularly the case as it appears that the majority of the money Mr T withdrew was not 
used.
Nor do I think, based on the available evidence, that Mr Ts objective of controlling the 
shape of his pension benefits was a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr T to give up 
valuable benefit guarantees.
I think, if properly discussed, Mr T would have understood that in order to meet his objective 
of having access to the tax free part of your pension, he was being advised to give up 
important guaranteed benefits for the sake of a lump sum, which he didnt need and could if 
it was necessary, have accessed in other ways, for example taking out a personal loan, 
increasing his mortgage borrowing or using his surplus monthly income. And that he would 
instead receive a future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns.
Likewise, death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a 
different form. As I set out above, I dont think any desire to leave a lump sum should have 
been a more important consideration than Mr Ts own retirement guarantees which he was 
being advised to give up.
Although I am mindful of the comments Workplace Solutions has made about the critical 
yield, I think it is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. The 
critical yield was, based upon the growth rates deemed achievable by the industry regulator, 
highly unlikely to be achievable, to even match the scheme benefits Mr T was being advised 
to give up.
The justification for transferring was that, monetary considerations aside, it was suitable in 
view of Mr Ts stated objectives. I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider 
when weighing the suitability of a transfer, but I am not satisfied that what Workplace 
Solutions considers to have been the other justifications for proceeding with the transfer 
were sufficiently important when weighted against the guarantees Mr T was advised to 
relinquish.Having carefully considered this matter my decision is that the recommendation to transfer 
wasnt suitable for Mr T, nor was it in his best interests. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (trading as 
Workplace Solutions) must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (trading as Workplace Solutions) may wish to contact the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts contribution history to the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (trading as Workplace Solutions) receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes deVere and Partners (UK) Limited 
(trading as Workplace Solutions)to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In addition, deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (trading as Workplace Solutions) should also 
pay Mr T £250 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I uphold this complaint. In order to 
put matters right deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (trading as Workplace Solutions) should 
calculate and pay the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman