DRN-2176071
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) failed to change his statement details when 
requested following his change of name by deed poll. 
What happened
Mr J changed his name by deed poll and visited his local HSBC in May 2019  with the details 
to amend his bank account. Mr J says even though he visited the branch on further 
occasions his statement still showed his previous name details even though his bank card 
had been amended. 
Mr J says that despite HSBC promises to change his details this wasnt corrected until 
March 2020 after a further complaint from him. Mr J says the failure to do this has meant he 
had no proof of address and meant he was unable to move into cheaper accommodation 
and has caused him considerable stress and upset . While HSBC offered him £600 by way 
of apology Mr J feels that this isnt acceptable given what he has gone through.
HSBC apologised to  Mr J and accept they have made an error in failing to update his 
statement details but feel the compensation paid of £600 is fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr J wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint . The 
investigator felt the matter could have been brought to HSBCs attention sooner and other 
forms of proof of address were available to Mr J. The investigator felt the level of 
compensation awarded by HSBC was fair.
Mr J wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering Mr Js complaint, I have looked at whether HSBC have fairly 
compensated him for the inconvenience caused by their failure to correctly amend his 
statement details. 
I can understand that it would have been frustrating for Mr J not having his correct statement 
details after he had requested this to be changed on more than one occasion.
What happened here is that Mr J, following his change of name by deed poll, went to his 
local branch in May 2019 to change his bank details. From what I can see while part of the 
name change was completed by HSBC (Mr J had a new bank card with his correct name) 
they failed to amend the address and name detailed on his bank account statement. Mr J 
says this was important to him as it was his only means of identification of his address, 
which he required to provide to a new landlord to move property. Mr J says because he 
couldnt prove his address, he was unable to move and therefore has lost out on a reduced 
rent as a direct result.
I have considered what Mr J says here as this is the main point to his complaint when he 
suggests the compensation offered by HSBC isnt sufficient. While Mr J says he did follow 
up his initial request to change his bank account details, I havent seen evidence of this or 
anything that explains the content of those discussions. All I have seen is in March 2020  Mr 
J made a formal complaint by web chat at which point HSBC put matters right. 
Mr J says that he had no other means of confirming his address apart from that bank 
statement. Mr J says this was needed so he could move property and proof of address was 
required by his new landlord.
While a bank statement is an acceptable means of proof of name and address there are 
other documents acceptable for this purpose. One of those would be his previous tenancy 
agreement and although this would have detailed his previous name, as would his bank 
statement, he did have, alongside this, his passport and deed poll document as clear 
evidence of his change of name. Afterall, it was these documents the bank needed in the 
first place to effect the change of his bank account details and it follows that I am satisfied 
that the combination of these documents would be sufficient to prove his change of name to 
a third party.  
On balance, I feel that there were other options and measures that Mr J could have taken to 
ensure he could evidence his address as mentioned before. HSBC have paid £600 in 
compensation and have apologised for their mistake and I am satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
While Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman