DRN-3822734
The complaint
Miss D complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a missed departure 
claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D took out a travel insurance policy through a broker. She was due to fly abroad in late 
May 2022. Miss D was planning to travel by train to a station, from where she planned to 
take an airport bus to the airport to catch her flight. 
However, Miss Ds train didnt stop at the station shed planned to travel on from by airport 
bus, which Ill call W, and the train took her on to another station, which Ill call C. Miss D 
travelled back from C to W and waited for an airport bus. But the airport bus was delayed 
and so by the time Miss D arrived at the airport, the gate was closed, and she missed her 
flight. Miss D didnt travel as planned and so she made a claim for the costs of her lost trip.
Astrenska turned down Miss Ds claim. It said that the circumstances of Miss Ds claim 
werent covered by the missed departure section of the policy; and it wasnt covered by the 
cancellation or curtailment sections of the policy either. Astrenska added that it didnt think 
shed left enough time to reach the airport. It did acknowledge that thered been some delay 
in assessing Miss Ds claim and so it paid her £25 compensation.
Miss D was unhappy with Astrenskas decision, and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
missed departure section of the policy and noted that it provided cover if a policyholder paid 
additional transport and accommodation costs to reach their destination. In this case, Miss D 
hadnt paid additional transport or accommodation costs to reach her destination after 
missing her flight. And she didnt think Miss Ds claim was covered by any other section of 
the policy.
Miss D disagreed and Ive summarised her responses. She felt that Astrenska had kept 
changing its story. She felt that the missed departure section of the policy did cover the costs 
of her lost trip and that the investigator had misinterpreted the policy wording. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss D, I think it was fair for Astrenska to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst 
other things, the policy terms and the circumstances of Miss Ds claim, to consider whether 
Astrenska treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Ds 
contract with Astrenska. Its common ground that Miss D missed her flight after she arrived 
late at the airport, due to her train being rerouted and bus delays. So I think it was 
appropriate for Astrenska to consider Miss Ds claim in line with the missed departure from 
the UK section of the policy. This says Astrenska provides the following cover:
1.Additional travel and accommodation costs to get you to your destination if you 
are delayed on the way to your departure point in the UK and this causes you to miss 
pre-booked transportation. Or
2. If the only reasonable alternative transport means you will lose more than 50% of 
your trip, you can claim for unused travel and accommodation costs under Cutting 
Short Your Trip. (My emphasis added).
Immediately underneath, Astrenska has set out the insured events it covers under this 
section of the policy. These include the following:
1. Delay or cancellation of public transport due to:
a. Industrial action
b. Bad weather not including anything listed as a natural catastrophe
c. Technical fault of transportation including bird strikes
d. Shortage of crew
2. The vehicle you are travelling in is involved in an accident, breaks down, is delayed 
by an incident that causes traffic jams or road closures.
I think Astrenska has clearly explained the insured events it covers and what costs it will 
meet under this section of the policy. I also think that the policy wording clearly sets out that 
if a policyholder misses their departure due to one of the listed, insured events it covers, it 
will pay the additional travel and accommodation costs they incur to reach their destination. 
In my view, its clear that Astrenska doesnt mean it will cover a policyholders original travel 
and accommodation costs under this section of the policy. I think its clear that Astrenska 
means it will cover any extra travel or accommodation costs a policyholder incurs in reaching 
their destination  for example, the cost of a new flight or ferry.
In this case, Miss D didnt incur any additional travel or accommodation costs to travel to her 
pre-booked destination. She simply didnt travel at all. So I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Astrenska to conclude that her claim wasnt covered by the missed 
departure section of the policy.
Like the investigator, Ive carefully considered the remaining sections of Miss Ds policy, and 
in particular the cancellation and cutting short your trip sections. However, I dont think the 
circumstances of Miss Ds claim are covered by any other section of the policy either.
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Astrenska to depart 
from a strict interpretation of the policy terms. But I dont think it would in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. Thats because the policy requires a policyholder to take 
reasonable steps to avoid or minimise any claim and act as if theyre uninsured. In this case, 
it isnt clear to me why Miss D decided to travel back to W from C, when it wouldve been 
reasonably straightforward to travel directly from C to the airport and potentially avoid such a 
period of delay. 
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Miss Ds position, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Astrenska to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman