DRN-4357656
The complaint
Miss S complains that Revolut Ltd failed to refund transactions made from her account that 
she didnt recognise.
What happened
What Miss S says
Miss S says she noticed her mobile phone had stopped working and believed this could 
have been because of an update to it. Miss S says it took some time to get her phone 
working again. She then had to re-load the Revolut app on her phone but found she couldnt 
log in to it. 
About three days after the problem with her phone, Miss S eventually regained access to her 
Revolut account and found numerous transactions had been made from it which she didnt 
recognise. Some funds had been transferred to other accounts, some payments made using 
her card linked to the account and some exchanged for crypto currency. 
Miss S informed Revolut about these payments and informed them about the problems 
shed had with her phone and app. A few payments had been blocked (and later reinstated 
on Miss Ss account) by Revolut because of concerns about the transfers and some card 
payments were later refunded by the merchants themselves. 
The full list of transactions were produced by the investigator in her report to both parties so I 
dont intend to repeat them here.
Miss S told Revolut shed lost several thousand pounds, and this was as a result of her 
phone/email and Revolut account being compromised by a hacker. Miss S provided details 
of an attempt to reset her security credentials for her phone and its account. 
Miss S confirmed to Revolut that she hadnt provided any of her banking/phone security 
information to anyone else and she was the sole user of her phone. She confirmed she 
hadnt been approached by anyone seeking her help or trying to obtain security information 
from her.
Miss S asked for her lost funds to be refunded, but Revolut declined, believing there was no 
compromise of her account. Miss S disagreed and after her complaint to Revolut was also 
declined, she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What Revolut says
Revolut received notice from Miss S that her account had been compromised and numerous 
payments made from it. They looked into the issue but couldnt determine where it had been 
compromised.
Revolut confirmed that Miss S had added a new device (phone) to her account several 
weeks prior to the disputed transactions. This included changing the phone number attached 
to the account. The procedure for adding a new phone included a request for a photograph 
of Miss S, this was sent at the time and Revolut were satisfied it matched the one shed 
provided when opening the account some months earlier.
The new device also used the same IP address which Miss S had used before, and this new 
phone was responsible for making the various disputed transactions. Based on this 
information, Revolut held her liable for the payments, believing shed carried them out 
herself. 
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
The investigation so far
Miss Ss complaint was looked into by a senior investigator. She asked both parties for 
information about the complaint. Miss S provided an explanation of what happened and 
provided details of messages shed received regarding her phones security.
Revolut provided audit data concerning the changes to Miss Ss account (the addition of a 
new device) and information about the disputed transactions.
After reviewing the evidence, Miss Ss complaint wasnt upheld. The investigator commented 
that:
The data from Revolut showed it was Miss S whod added another device to her 
account.
The photos provided to add the phone matched the one already held by Revolut.
A common IP address was used by both devices indicating that it was the same 
person who had access to them.
Miss S hadnt given her device or account details to anyone else.
There was no evidence of a compromise or a plausible explanation how a third party 
could have made the payments without Miss Ss knowledge.
Miss S strongly disagreed with the report and, in summary, said:
She wasnt responsible for the disputed transactions and reported them to Revolut 
herself.
Shes never owned the model phone added to her account.
She believed Revolut were responsible for her details being compromised.
Further details of her phones account being compromised were provided and a 
notification concerning another payment method which had been stopped due to 
suspicions of fraud (dated after these disputed transactions).
Miss S said she kept her security details on the notes app on her phone, which is 
how her account could have been compromised.She used public Wi-Fi which could account for the matching IP address.
Miss S didnt accept shed provided her photos to Revolut and theyd been obtained 
by the scammer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Revolut can hold Miss S liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Revolut can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss S authorised 
the transactions, but Revolut cannot say that the use of the card details or banking app 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Revolut can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Miss Ss version of events is that someone (unknown) took over her account, including her 
phone and made various transactions from her account. Revolut have a different version and 
believe their evidence points to Miss S being responsible for them.
Examining the evidence provided by both parties, its apparent that Miss S had messages 
from her phone provider that showed her account details had been used and a later 
message to say that an attempt had been made to reset those details. This notice wasnt 
actioned (by the phone operator) at the time. Thats because such requests are delayed to 
help protect the accounts owner. This notice showed the request wouldnt be actioned until 
well after these disputed transactions took place.
I accept that Miss S had some messages concerning her account ID (held with her phone 
provider), but theres nothing that indicates anyone was successful in taking over her 
account. 
Revoluts information showed that when Miss S opened the account, she provided a 
photograph of herself, and this was later repeated when the second device was added to her 
account some weeks before the disputed transactions were made. Miss S has argued that 
these photographs were used by the scammer, and they werent the type she would send to 
Revolut for the security check. Having looked at Revoluts records, they show the date and 
time of each photo when it was received by them. Both photos are of Miss S and the audit 
data linked to them indicates they were genuine and not subject to some form of 
manipulation. So, its the case that if they were obtained by a scammer, then the account 
itself would be false  because it couldnt have been opened at all without them. Miss S 
hasnt raised this possibility and appeared to use the account normally from when it was 
opened. The other option is that the photos were uploaded by Miss S herself and thats 
supported by the audit evidence. I think that what Revolut have shown is that Miss S 
registered the second device after providing a photo of herself.
This is further supported by Revoluts evidence that a common IP address was used for both the devices associated with Miss Ss account. The pattern of use of those devices doesnt 
support Miss Ss assertion that a scammer compromised her account on the same public 
network, it's far more likely it was linked to a regular location. So, the combination of 
Revoluts evidence doesnt support an unknown third party being responsible for these 
transactions. 
Ive also thought about the registration of the second device  it took place some three 
weeks or so before the disputed transactions took place and at the time, the account held a 
very healthy balance. If a scammer/fraudster had access to the account from the second 
device, Id expect the account to be emptied at the time. Theres no good reason for a 
criminal to wait if there are funds in the account as theyre unlikely to know if theyll be spent 
or the compromise of the account identified. Generally, these types of compromise result in 
a fairly quick attempt to remove the funds, but that didnt happen here.
Ive also considered the various blocks applied to some transactions and credits to the 
account, including the refund made by a merchant. I dont think that any of these show that 
the account was operated by anyone without Miss Ss knowledge.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Miss Ss account was compromised as the evidence doesnt 
support that. What it does show is that Miss S registered a new device that was then used to 
make various disputed transactions, including some crypto currency exchanges which are 
also present on the account from some months earlier.
My objective assessment here is that I think Miss S was more likely than not responsible for 
these payments and it was reasonable for Revolut to hold her liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman