DRN-1661639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about Luxespa Hot Tubs (UK) Ltd (Luxespa) about their hot tub not 
working whilst covered by a warranty. They want Luxespa to repair, replace or refund their 
hot tub and to pay them compensation for their loss of use of it. 
What happened
In mid-2018, Mr and Mrs I ordered a hot tub from Luxespa. They paid an initial deposit of 
£400 and setup a repayment plan to pay the remainder of the cost in 12 monthly instalments 
of around £230. 
The hot tub was delivered and installed in August 2018 and Mr and Mrs I began making their 
monthly repayments. 
The hot tub included a 2-year warranty for parts and labour. 
The hot tub initially worked satisfactorily but in May 2019 the pump stopped working. Mr I 
contacted Luxespa and was assured that someone would come out to look at the hot tub. 
Noone from Luxespa did come out to inspect the hot tub, but Mr I was able to get the pump 
working again himself.
Mr and Mrs I finished repaying the cost of purchase in September 2019. Shortly after their 
last payment, the hot tub pump and speakers stopped working again. 
Mr and Mrs I tried to contact Luxespa to complain in October 2019, and on many occasions 
subsequently. They have been unable to reach anyone and Luxespa did not respond to their 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs I contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and has set out her view to the 
parties. Luxespa has not participated in the investigation and has indicated that the business 
has ceased trading. 
Our investigator considered that the warranty was clear that if a fault developed in the hot 
tub within the two years after delivery then Luxespa would attend to repair the fault or 
replace the hot tub. She considered that it was fair for Luxespa to honour that warranty, and 
also to pay Mr and Mrs I £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience, due to not 
being able to use their hot tub for a long period. 
Luxespa has not accepted that view, nor responded to the investigation. The complaint has 
therefore been passed for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the warranty and agree with the investigator that on the face of it Luxespa 
should have attended to inspect and repair, if possible, the hot tub. If repair was not 
possible, then Luxespa should have replaced the hot tub with an equivalent model or a 
refund. 
Luxespa has not inspected the hot tub and has not provided any argument explaining why it 
has not honoured the warranty. 
I therefore agree with the investigators assessment and uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint. 
Putting things right
Firstly, the hot tub remains out of use. In order to put this right, I agree that Luxespa should 
attend and inspect the hot tub and carry out a repair if possible. If a repair is not possible 
then Luxespa should replace or refund the hot tub. 
The investigator acknowledged, in her view, that the warranty set out that customers would 
not be compensated for delays in rectifying warranty related issues, but that she considered 
that the delays had gone beyond reasonable and that Mr and Mrs I had been denied the use 
of their hot tub because of Luxespas failings. She therefore considered that Luxespa should 
pay compensation of £300 to Mr and Mrs I for their distress and inconvenience. 
I agree with this assessment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and given by the investigator, I uphold Mr and Mrs Is 
complaint and direct Luxespa Hot Tubs (UK) Limited to:
inspect and repair Mr and Mrs Is hot tub;
if a repair is not possible, to replace Mr and Mrs Is hot tub with a comparable item; 
and
pay to Mr and Mrs I £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman