DRN-2852932
The complaint
Mr O complains that U K Insurance Limited treated him unfairly in connection with a
breakdown insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr O is a deaf person. He went online and took out a UKI policy for the year from 2 
September 2019. On about 5 August 2020, UKI sent notification of automatic renewal from 2 
September 2020. But Mr O didnt want that. He wanted to cancel the policy.
On Friday 28 August 2020, Mr O complained to UKI that its webchat facility hadnt been
available and UKI hadnt made allowances for his inability to use the telephone.
By a final response dated 2 September 2020, UKI said it had cancelled the policy and
wouldnt take any payment from Mr Os account. But it turned down his complaint. Mr O
brought his complaint to us straight away.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr O
hadnt been able to get in contact easily with UKI to ask it not to renew his policy. That had
caused Mr O stress and inconvenience. The investigator recommended that UKI should pay
Mr O £100.00 for this.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr O 
and to UKI on 28 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
UKI didnt know of Mr Os deafness. But it shouldve anticipated that some of its 
policyholders would find it difficult or impossible to communicate by telephone.
I didnt consider that the phrase just call us respects the needs of people like Mr O 
who reasonably regard this as a barrier.
The automatic withdrawal of webchat had a disproportionate effect on Mr O who 
cant use the telephone.
As some of my points hadnt been mentioned by the investigator, my decision was 
provisional.
Subject to any further information from Mr O or from UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint. I intended to direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr O £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr O agrees with the provisional decision. He says that he tried to contact UKI in a few days 
leading to the point where he made the complaint. 
UKI disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It takes its obligations under the Equality Act 2010 extremely seriously and has 
numerous reasonable adjustments in place to accommodate the needs of its 
customers. These include, amongst other things, a Webchat facility as one of a 
variety of means of communication.
UKI regularly receives and implements legal advice in relation to its obligations under
the Equality Act 2010. It therefore respectfully disagrees with the suggestion that UKI 
did not anticipate that some of its policyholders would find it difficult or impossible to
communicate by telephone. The very existence of a variety of means to 
communicate with UKI demonstrates this. Nevertheless, it accepts that just contact 
us rather than just call us more accurately reflects the available means of 
communicating with UKI.
Whilst it appreciates, and is sorry, that Mr O experienced difficulties in
communicating the cancellation of his policy on Friday 28 August 2020, it does not
follow that there was any breach of the Equality Act 2010. Unfortunately, all means of
communication get busy from time to time, but this affects all customers and not
just those with protected characteristics. It does not follow that customers with
protected characteristics are treated any less favourably as a result. 
The Equality Act 2010 does not oblige service providers to ensure that reasonable 
adjustments should not be affected at all by significant operational challenges. 
Regrettably, callers to UKI were affected in the same way as Mr O, on the particular 
day in question. It has since recruited additional staff for Webchat, to ensure that the
service has additional capacity, as it continues to increase in popularity with 
customers.
It is important to remember that the last weekend in August is a very popular Bank
Holiday, even more particularly so last year, as it coincided with some relaxation of
Covid lockdown restrictions. Its website received 581,381 visitors in August 2020, as 
compared to 386,757 in August 2019. This represented a 50.3% increase for the 
month. Nevertheless, the Webchat services maintained a very good service, with the 
overwhelming majority of contacts being answered very quickly.
Looking more closely at the Webchat availability figures in the week leading up to
Friday 28 August 2021, for the vast majority of that week, waiting times were less 
than three minutes and Webchat largely visible and available. UKIs customers, 
including Mr O, therefore had plenty of opportunity to use Webchat throughout 
August and the week leading up to Friday 28 August 2020.
It is correct to say that the Webchat button will not be shown to all visitors at 
particularly busy times, when average queue times go above certain thresholds. 
Even at these times however, it is still available to at least 85% of visitors, subject to 
their individual web browser functionality. The Webchat button will become visible to 
customers, as soon as service levels improve to the required threshold. Crucially, this 
is always a matter of minutes, rather than hours. At these very busy times, UKI also 
deliberately restricts incoming new business opportunities, to ensure that existing 
customers are able to use Webchat as soon as possible. Had Mr O waited for no 
more than 6 minutes 20 seconds, even at the very busiest time between 7pm and 
8pm on Friday 28 August 2020, the Webchat functionality would have become visible 
and available.Wait times affect all our customers, so it is not correct to say that some
unavailability of Webchat, for a matter of minutes, at some particularly busy times, 
had a disproportionate effect on Mr O. Regrettably, the effect is the same on all 
customers. Increased call waiting times also inevitably lead to increased demand for
Webchat.
UKI would like to reiterate its sincere apologies to Mr O for the difficulties he
experienced on Friday 28 August 2021 and, whilst it is happy to offer a goodwill
gesture of £50.00 to him in recognition of this, it does not accept that Mr O was 
treated unfairly, for all of the reasons explained above.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with an individual consumers complaint against an
insurance company or other regulated financial firm. Where we find that a firm has treated
that consumer unfairly, we direct the firm to take steps to try to put things right for that
consumer. We arent the regulator and we dont direct the firm how it should deal with
consumers generally.
I have to take into account the relevant law (including the Equality Act) regulation and good
practice. But above all I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
I accept that UKI didnt know of Mr Os deafness. I accept that it anticipated that some of its 
policyholders would find it difficult or impossible to communicate by telephone. However  on 
the subject of stopping an automatic renewal - UKIs policy booklet said the
following:
If you dont want to renew your policy, just call us before your renewal date and let
us know.
I dont consider that the phrase just call us respects the needs of people like Mr O who
reasonably regard this as a barrier.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr Os experience was that  when he wanted to cancel  he
could only find telephone numbers. He couldnt find an email address to use. And I accept
that he found that the webchat facility wasnt available.
So Mr O didnt have any immediate way to get his message across. He says he didnt want
to use snail mail. And by Friday 28 August, time was short before the renewal was due to
take effect on 2 September.
Mr O used a complaints website to send an email at 19:47 on 28 August 2020. He
complained about his experience that day. He said there was no email address and no
available webchat.
UKIs final response included the following:
you can write to us or use our chat facility via our website. I understand you did try
to use the latter, but it was unavailable. This may have been turned off for new
enquiries as they were busyMore recently UKI has shown us confidential webchat data for each hour of the day 28
August 2020. UKI has submitted that the data shows unavailability for an hour at lunchtime.
But I find that the data shows that at all times of that day some customers were unable to get
a webchat.
And webchat was unavailable over lunchtime and in mid-afternoon. UKI has told us that its
webchat button is automatically unavailable if the average queueing time exceeds a few
minutes. I consider that this automatic withdrawal of webchat had a disproportionate effect
on Mr O who cant use the telephone.
I find it likely that he wouldve waited in a queue for a webchat if he had that option. But there 
was no option to join a queue when the webchat button was unavailable. 
I have no reason to doubt UKIs statement that the button wouldve become available in no 
more than about six minutes. But Mr O had no way of knowing that. And I accept that he 
tried repeatedly but couldnt get a webchat.
More recently still, UKI has said that Mr O couldve made use of other channels such as talk
type. But I accept Mr Os statement that he looked for contact details on the website and
didnt find such other options. And UKI didnt mention those options in the final response. 
Nor has UKIs response to the provisional decision given details of how the other channels 
were made available to Mr O. 
So Im not persuaded that UKI did enough to make those options available to Mr O.
Overall, Im not satisfied that UKI treated Mr O fairly.
Mr O cancelled his only policy with UKI. And he has said he will avoid being its customer
again. So I wont direct UKI how it should make its service more accessible to him in the
future.
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience UKI caused Mr O  and about what
compensation is fair and reasonable. I dont underestimate the frustration Mr O mustve 
experienced at not being able to communicate as promptly with UKI as he believed other 
customers could.   
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr O £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman