DRN-2947890
The complaint
 Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited refused to cover the cost of 
repairs to his faulty car. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMW is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car suffered a catastrophic failure some five months after it was acquired by Mr H. So at 
some four years old and having covered only some 17,000 miles the engine failed. The 
garage which is repairing the car has said that the cause of the fault was a historic turbo 
failure. It noted the car had a single turbocharger replacement probably shortly before it was 
acquired by Mr H and the first one faulted and had sucked the majority of oil from the engine 
leading to the engine failure.
It is accepted by all that this fault was most likely present at the point of sale. However, Mr H 
failed to present the car for its MOT which was due in late September 202, a month before it 
broke down.  
BMW has put forward two arguments based on the lack of a MOT. Firstly, they said that the 
inspection may have identified the fault and prevented it from turning into a catastrophic 
failure. Secondly, it says that Mr H broke the terms of his agreement by not having the car 
subjected to the MOT in time.
Our investigator recommended that BMW pay for the cost of repair, pay £200 compensation 
and forgo the monthly instalment due for the period Mr H has been without the car. Having 
initially refused the claim it offered to cover the repairs and pay £200 compensation. It 
suggested that Mr H needed to have some form of responsibility as he continued to use the 
car without having it serviced or having the MOT carried out. 
The garage repairing the car has said that the failure would not have been picked up during 
the MOT inspection. I have no reason to doubt this given the nature of the MOT examination 
so the fact it didnt have it done does not mean that Mr Hs failure either caused or 
contributed to the engine failure.
The second point that Mr H broke the terms of the agreement does not to my mind impact 
my decision. The car was faulty at the point of sale and nothing which happened subsequent 
to this takes away from that fundamental point. The fact the car wasnt either serviced or had 
its MOT does not mean it was fit for purpose when it was sold. I accept that it would have 
been preferable if Mr H had ensured the work had been done, but I cannot see that this 
would have had any retrospective impact on the fault. Nor do I see that there are grounds for 
in effect, imposing some form of penalty on him for failing to have had the work done.
Putting things right
 BMW should pay for the cost of repair and compensation plus loss of use.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
settle the bill for the repairs to the car with the repairing garage as detailed by our 
investigator,
refund the hire purchase payments from 24 October 2020 to date the bill is settled 
and Mr H can collect the car, to cover loss of use of the car because of the inherent 
quality issues;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on these refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £200 for any trouble and upset thats been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman