DRN-4283485
The complaint
Mr D complains that Argentis Wealth Management Ltd (trading as Compass Wealth 
Management Consultants Limited) failed to invest the money in his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP), and more widely didnt provide an acceptable level of service for his 
investments despite being paid significant fees to do so.
What happened
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background 
and circumstances to the complaint in her assessment which she sent to both parties in 
December 2022. Both parties received the assessment and are aware of the circumstances, 
so I wont repeat them all again in detail here. But to summarise, towards the end of 
2020/beginning of 2021 Mr D was informed that the firm of advisers that he was using was 
going to be absorbed into Compass Wealth Management Consultants Ltd (Compass). And 
that his then adviser would continue in his role. Around that time the decision was taken to 
move some of Mr D's investments; his ISA funds to a longstanding ISA account he already 
held, and his SIPP, totalling around £158,000, to a new pension provider. Mr D said at 
around this time the level of service he received from the adviser deteriorated.
The investigator said Mr D immediately had problems logging into the new SIPP providers 
platform. And no action was taken by Compass to invest the funds transferred, which 
remained in cash. Mr D said given the inactivity and advisers failures to follow up on agreed 
actions he decided to transfer his SIPP to another pension provider. There were then further 
problems in arranging that transfer. Mr D eventually transferred to the new provider in 
August 2022. Mr D said the funds in his SIPP had remained uninvested and in cash from 
around the end of March 2021 to August 2022.
Mr D complained to Compass. It accepted that it hadnt provided an acceptable level of 
service relating to the SIPP. It apologised for the delays and the lack of clarity in its 
communications, and offered Mr D a full refund of the fees he paid relating to the SIPP 
(£704.84). It also offered him £150 to apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
However it didnt accept it was responsible for the SIPP funds remaining in cash. It said Mr D 
was aware that the funds were in cash, had been comfortable with that position, and could 
have invested them himself. It said it had recommended funds for investment but Mr D had 
chosen not to proceed with them. It also thought Mr D hadnt lost out financially as a result of 
being invested in cash for the period in question. 
In respect of the ISA fees, Compass said the fees it had been paid were in accordance with 
its client agreement. It therefore didnt agree to refund any further fees.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld in part. She was 
satisfied that Mr D had been unable to access the SIPP platform for a period of time, and so 
couldnt switch his investments during that period.  And in any event, she said the evidence 
showed that Mr D had been relying on his adviser for recommendations and to arrange the 
investment. 
The investigator didnt think the adviser had acted in a timely manner. She said his initial 
recommendations had been made in February 2021, but these couldnt be carried out, and 
ultimately it wasnt until late 2021/early 2022 that further recommendations were made. Due 
to problems with these further recommendations, these again werent implemented. All this 
was against a background of Mr D contacting the adviser on a number of occasions, alerting 
him that the funds remained in cash and asking why that was the case. 
Overall, the investigator said she thought because of various delays on the part of the 
adviser, the funds had remained uninvested for over a year after the initial advice had been 
given. So she thought Compass should calculate whether Mr D had lost out financially as a 
result of not being invested for an appropriate period, and if there was loss, it should pay 
such an amount into Mr Ds pension to make up for that loss. 
The investigator subsequently considered the points Mr D had raised about his ISA; that 
despite Compass being paid fees from the ISA it hadnt provided any reasonable level of 
service. And that it had continued to take fees even after it ceased acting for Mr D.
The investigator noted that Compass had said the fees it had been paid reflected its client 
agreement which Mr D had signed. It said work in relation to the ISA had been conducted as 
per the agreement. And that an ongoing service had been provided, but the SIPP issue had 
taken precedence all through the period in late 2021, and was the main focus until it was 
transferred in August 2022.
The investigator referred to the Service and Payment agreement which detailed the ongoing 
charges payable and which ongoing service option Mr D had selected  Choices. The 
Compass Wealth Management Consultants Value Service Proposition booklet listed the 
ongoing service and value options provided for the Choice option Mr D had selected. The 
investigator said that she hadnt seen anything to suggest that Compass hadnt met the level 
of service as set out. 
As both Mr D and Compass didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to consider.
I sent an e-mail to the firm setting out my thoughts on Mr Ds complaint. In brief, I said (in 
regards to the SIPP) that although I thought a service had been provided, this hadnt been in 
a timely manner. I said I thought, like the investigator, that Mr Ds money in the SIPP should 
have been invested earlier. However that calculations completed on the basis outlined by the 
investigator showed that Mr D hadnt suffered any material losses as a result of not being 
invested for the period in question. 
I said that although Mr D would have paid charges irrespective of how hed been invested, I 
was bound to consider the matter in the context of what was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I said although I recognised that fees werent charged solely for 
advice/arranging investments, getting the money invested and in a timely and suitable 
manner was clearly one of the main objectives of using and paying for the services of a 
financial adviser. I said I didnt think that service was provided in a timely and efficient 
manner, and I intended to award Mr D 75% of the SIPP fees he had paid  which I 
understood were £704  so £528.
In respect of the ISA, I said Mr D had opted for the Choice ongoing service. And the 
Value/Service Proposition brochure setting out exactly what service we provide, said this 
included amongst other things Continuing suitability assessment and an annual financial 
planning review. I said my understanding was that Mr D already had a significant sum in his 
ISA (over £500,000) which fees were being charged on. And that that sum was already 
invested. I said although Compass may not have given the original advice about the existing 
investments in the ISA, given a fee was being charged for Choice, which included an 
ongoing review of suitability, I thought suitability should have been reviewed at some stage 
during the period Compass was Mr Ds adviser. I said I could only see that advice had been 
given about additional contributions to the ISA. I noted the Drawdown Switch & Investment 
Recommendations report dated 28 March 2022 said:
However, I would highlight that I have not yet reviewed the underlying ISA portfolio, and the
focus at this stage will be the investment of the funds in the current tax year.
Mr D had also referred to a number of occasions where the adviser hadnt done what he had 
agreed to do and failed to act in a timely manner regarding his ISA/VCTs. I said again, I 
recognised that fees werent charged solely for advice/arranging investments. But I thought 
they formed an important part of the service. I said I wasnt persuaded a reasonably 
acceptable level of service had been provided to Mr D in respect of the ISA. And that I 
intended awarding Mr D £600 in respect of a refund of the ISA fees. Plus all fees relating to 
the ISA that were paid after Mr D had instructed Compass to be removed as his advisers  
which I understood was 10 June 2022.
I said I also intended to award Mr D £250 for the inconvenience I was satisfied that Mr D had 
been caused by the matter.
Compass largely agreed with my recommendations  apart from saying it had only received 
fees up until August 2022, and so would refund fees from July to August 2022.
I sent an e-mail to Mr D copying my above exchange with the firm. Mr D said, in summary, 
that he remained concerned with the underlying failure to provide even a minimal level of 
service on the account.  He said this was a fundamental breach of the advisers obligations 
to their client for a whole year  effectively from March 2021 to March 22. He thought there 
was a danger that this wasnt being given sufficient attention or treated seriously enough. 
Mr D said the only sanction for the firms failure to perform to an acceptable standard 
appeared to be a reimbursement of fees which it had not in any way earned. He said he had 
detailed the various and serious failings he had experienced, along with Compass 
obstructive attitude. He said his previous proposal to settle the complaint that would still 
have left the balance of fees in Compass favour should have led to an amicable conclusion. 
With regards to the SIPP, he said it was difficult to understand why any portion of the fee 
associated with it should be retained by Compass when no action was taken to invest the 
money for over a year. Compass had initially offered a full refund of £704.
With regards to the ISA, he said Compass hadnt spent any time reviewing its ongoing 
suitability, yet had drawn fees of over £4,000 from it. He thought hed been significantly 
overcharged. 
Having considered the matter further, I sent another e-mail to the firm saying that, on 
reflection, I thought my recommendation for it to refund £600 of the ISA fees was too light. I 
said there wasnt a document that set out what part of the fee related to the particular 
ongoing service. And it wasnt a straightforward matter to assess what proportion of the fees 
taken would reasonably align to the non-provision of the 'continuing assessment of 
suitability' and "Annual financial planning review" of the ISA. I said I didnt think suitability of 
the ISA was reviewed either on a continuing or annual basis. So I said I thought a refund of 
£1,000 of the ISA fees was appropriate in the particular circumstances. The firm responded to say it agreed with my recommendation. And that it would provide a 
full refund of the SIPP fees including an additional £140.02 which it had received  so 
£844.86 for the SIPP; the ISA fees taken from 1 July 2022, which it acknowledged went into 
October 2022; and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It calculated this was 
£2,808.24 in total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has said that he is concerned that the underlying failure to provide even a minimal level 
of service may not being given sufficient attention or treated seriously enough, and that the 
only sanction for the firms failures appeared to be a refund of fees. 
As I have explained above, I agree with Mr D that the firm didnt provide a timely and 
efficient service for either the SIPP or the ISA. I dont wish to underplay its failings, but 
ultimately, what I then need to consider is what constitutes fair compensation for its lack of 
service. 
The firm has agreed to refund all the SIPP fees. And I think £1,000 is a reasonable 
proportion of the ISA fees given fees arent just for providing advice, but a fee was being 
charged as part of Choice which included an ongoing review of suitability which didnt 
happen. In my view this represents an approximate cost of such a review. 
The firm has also agreed to refund the fees it was paid on the ISA from 1 July 2022. I 
recognise there may be arguments for a slightly earlier date in June 2022. However I note 
Mr B was still in discussions with the firm about it disengaging from acting his adviser in mid 
June 2022, he was still asking it to provide information about his accounts, and a specific 
date hadnt been agreed at that point. I think a refund of all fees from 1 July 2022 is fair in 
the circumstances.
Mr D said he is also concerned that a refund of fees appears to be the only sanction despite 
the firm providing little in the way of service over a prolonged period of time. The 
Ombudsman Services role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint. I think a refund of fees and an award for the distress and inconvenience to Mr 
D is fair in the particular circumstances here. In terms of sanctions, I dont have any powers 
to fine or punish firms. Those powers rest with the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
My final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that Argentis Wealth 
Management Ltd should refund to Mr D:
£1,000 of ISA fees
The ISA fees paid to the firm from 1 July 2022 (which went into October 2022 and it 
has calculated as £713.38)
Fees relating to the SIPP - £844.86
And pay Mr D £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused 
him.Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to the compensation payment 
from the date of this decision to settlement, if settlement isnt made within 28 days of us 
informing Argentis Wealth Management Ltd that Mr D has accepted this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman