DRN-3082272
The complaint
Mr P complains Allianz Insurance Plc didnt issue a certificate of structural adequacy (CSA) 
after it completed structural repairs to his property in 2004, following a claim on his home 
insurance policy. He wants a CSA to be issued now. 
Mr P is represented by his surveyor, Mr S.
What happened
In 1999, Mr P made a successful subsidence claim. Vegetation was removed, and Allianz 
undertook crack repairs and redecorations. 
Mr P went on to report further issues at the property. In 2003, Allianz accepted the property 
was still suffering from subsidence. However, Allianz also said a major factor was the lack of 
connection between the different types of construction, where the two extensions adjoin the 
original property. It said that such differential movement wasnt covered. Nonetheless, in 
2004, Allianz undertook structural repairs to the left flank wall. This was after Mr P had 
completed some private works, to resolve the damp issues at the property.
In 2016, Mr P contacted Allianz again. He thought the property was still moving due to the 
appearance of some cracks and gaps. The property was also suffering from further damp. 
Allianz undertook level monitoring and damp investigations. 
Allianz concluded the monitoring readings showed no significant movement. It also said the 
damp investigations found the damp issue was a long-standing problem that related to the 
construction and build of the property, not its previous repairs. Mr P complained about 
Allianzs further claim decision.
In June 2021, I issued a final decision about the 2004 repairs and the 2016 claim. Whilst our 
service was considering that complaint, Mr P complained about the CSA. Mr P says a CSA 
wasnt issued after the 2004 structural repairs; and Mr S says if Allianz is confident that its 
structural repairs are compliant with the relevant regulations and codes, then theres no 
reason for it not to issue a new CSA.
Mr S says the lack of a CSA has resulted in higher insurance costs (following a switch to a 
different insurer); the property not being able to pass a structural survey; and the property 
not being mortgageable by a new owner.
One of investigators considered the matter. He didnt think we could consider the complaint 
about whether a CSA was issued in 2004, as he thought the complaint had been made too 
late. He also didnt think Allianz could reasonably be expected to issue a new CSA for the 
structural repairs it completed some 17 years ago, irrespective of its findings from recent 
level monitoring and damp investigations.
Because Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome, the matter has been passed to me 
to decide. I have already issued a jurisdiction decision which sets out why I dont have the 
power to consider whether a CSA was issued in 2004. So, my final decision here will only 
deal with the part of the complaint I can consider, which is whether Allianz should issue a 
new CSA now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz says that, due to the passage of time, the parties who dealt with the claim and repairs 
only hold limited records; and those records are insufficient to recreate the CSA that would 
have been issued after its structural repairs. Given the time thats passed, I accept what it 
says.
In any event, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably direct Allianz to issue a new CSA for 
structural repairs completed so long ago. Particularly, as theres since been some ongoing 
movement and damp at the property. As noted in my previous final decision, I wasnt 
persuaded that those ongoing issues related to Allianzs previous structural repairs.
Mr S argues that if Allianz executed the recent remedial works correctly, following the 2016 
claim, theres no reason a CSA cant be issued now. However, Allianz didnt undertake any 
structural repairs following the 2016 claim. It undertook investigations which determined 
there was movement ongoing at the property, but this wasnt subsidence related. Im 
satisfied that theres no reason for Allianz to issue a CSA in such circumstances.
Mr S also points towards my previous final decision. However, whilst I accepted that Allianzs 
render system on the left flank wall should be replaced and it was contributing to the damp in 
some rooms; I wasnt persuaded its structural repairs had failed, or they werent suitable 
bearing in mind what Allianz had confirmed its liability was limited to in 2003.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and Mr S, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman