DRN-3787018
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim for repairs 
under her car insurance policy. Mr D is representing Mrs D in her complaint. 
What happened
Mrs Ds car was damaged in an incident in May 2022 and she made a claim for repairs to 
her insurer Aviva. 
An approved repairer of Avivas carried out repairs. But Mrs D was unhappy with the works 
and found further damage. The AR carried out some rectification repairs but Mrs D remained 
unhappy and contacted Aviva. 
Aviva instructed an engineer to look at Mrs Ds car and they agreed the works hadnt been 
carried out to an acceptable standard. Aviva gave Mrs D the option to have the rectification 
works done at a manufacturer approved bodyshop, but Mrs D declined. She provided 
estimates from other repairers to have the rectification works carried out - but Avivas 
engineer said these were exaggerated. So Aviva offered to pay Mrs D a cash payment for 
the rectification repairs of £4,768.64. Aviva agreed to reimburse Mrs D for the costs of an 
independent report - and paid £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Aviva said as it had offered the option to cover the costs of repairs at a manufacturer 
approved bodyshop which Mrs D rejected, it wouldnt assist in finding an alternative repairer. 
Mr D on behalf of Mrs D asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree. He says they didnt reject the offer of a manufacturer approved body 
shop. He says in the context of the offer, it meant a potentially 8-10 week wait for parts to 
complete repairs. As they were due to go on holiday abroad in the car, and an offer of a like 
for like vehicle wasnt made by Aviva, Mr D says they agreed it didnt seem viable and this 
was how things were left. He says if they were offered a like for like vehicle while theirs was 
being repaired they would have jumped at the chance. All they want is for their car to be 
back in the condition it was before the incident. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva isnt able to provide a recording of the discussion between Mr D and the engineer - but 
its been able to provide a recording of a discussion between Mr D and Aviva. In this call, Mr 
D says that they werent willing to accept the offer to have the car taken to a manufacturer 
approved body shop for rectification repairs. So while I understand Mr D says there was 
further context around that decision and their reasons, I cant say that Aviva acted 
unreasonably in its offer to put things right. 
I think Aviva fairly considered their complaint - and the cash settlement has been decided by 
an engineer based on market rates for labour and parts for the agreed rectification repairs. 
I think Avivas decision to pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its ARs poor service and to reimburse for the costs of an independent report has 
been enough to put things right in this case. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not 
asking Aviva to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman