DRN-4024061
The complaint
Mr P complains through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket 
(Quidmarket) failed to carry out proportionate checks before it advanced him two loans. 
What happened
Mr P took two loans from Quidmarket, and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 01/10/2021 23/12/2021 3 £146.58
2 £600.00 04/02/2022 outstanding 6 £187.61
Following Mr Ps representatives complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter 
(FRL). In summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans 
were affordable. Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill 
it offered to remove these loans from Mr Ps credit file and to waive £375.22 of interest due 
on loan 2. This would close the loan. Mr Ps representative didnt agree and instead referred 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold the complaint about 
loan 1 although he did conclude, that given the credit check results perhaps Quidmarket 
ought to have done further checks before granting it. 
But the adjudicator did uphold loan 2. He said the credit check results Quidmarket received 
showed Mr P would need to use a significant portion of his income to service his existing 
credit commitments  around £1,326 per month which included the repayment for loan 2. In 
addition, the adjudicator could see that Mr P had taken 5 new loans within the last 4 months 
 which also included 3 within the last 6 weeks. This led the adjudicator to conclude that 
Mr P was overindebted and had a history to taking out and repaying payday loans. So, the 
loan wasnt sustainable for Mr P. 
Quidmarket didnt agree with the outcome, and Ive summarised the response below:
Mr P had a significant level of income.
There is little difference between loans and 1 and 2 in terms of the credit check 
results  yet loan 2 has been upheld. 
Quidmarket reiterated its offer in the FRL which is still available to Mr P. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. 
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint. As neither Mr P nor Quidmarket appear 
to have disagreed with the adjudicators findings about loan 1. This suggests the loan is no 
longer in dispute and therefore I will say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on 
whether Quidmarket did all it ought to have done before advancing loan 2. 
Loan 2
Quidmarket has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr P for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ps income has been recorded as being £2,986 per
month (after tax), Quidmarket says this income was electronically verified.  
Mr P also declared his monthly outgoings were £1,641. This left disposal income of around
£1,345 per month. However, Quidmarket also carried out a credit search (which I go into 
more detail below) and having done that it increased Mr Ps monthly expenditure to take 
account of the information it received. Quidmarket believed that Mr P had around £2,225 in 
expenditure each month. Which left £761 worth of disposable income  Mr P had enough disposable income for Quidmarket to believe Mr P could afford the largest 
repayment of around £187.61. The loan looked affordable. But as Ive said above, 
Quidmarket also had to consider whether the loan was sustainable for Mr P. 
Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has provided the Financial Ombudsman 
with a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency. I want to add that 
although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Quidmarket couldnt do, is carry out a 
credit search and then not react to the to the information it received.
Having reviewed the credit check results, I do agree with the adjudicator that Mr P would 
need to use a significant portion of his income to service all his credit commitments. The 
credit check results, also indicated that he was regularly using payday and / or instalments 
loans. The headline figures do show Mr P had debts of nearly £26,834 and he was utilising 
around 73% of his available credit. But Mr P had 18 active accounts and he had opened 6 
new credit accounts within the last six months. 
As part of the affordability check  before this loan was approved, Quidmarket had 
calculated monthly credit commitments of around £1,138 and I think that was broadly 
accurate given the open accounts and the payments that Quidmarket could see in the credit 
report. So, with the loan repayment due to Quidmarket  Mr P was already committing to 
spending around £1,325 or around 44% of his income solely to service existing debts. 
In my view, this was a high enough percentage for QuidMarket to have been concerned that 
Mr P may have been overindebted and was having some difficulties managing his existing 
creditors. This is especially so, as Quidmarket was on notice, that in the six months 
preceding this loan Mr P had opened 6 new credit account  so an average of one per 
month. 
In the six weeks before this loan was approved, I can see that Mr P opened two payday 
loans with a combined monthly repayment of £314. He had also opened a new credit card  
which was almost at its limit. Mr P had also recently opened a longer-term loan  with a term 
of 24 months which he was required to pay £362 per month towards. 
In addition to the recently opened account, Quidmarket was on notice that Mr P had been 
using other payday loan companies during the time that loan 1 was running as well as after 
that loan had been settled. Since October 2021 Mr P had settled five such accounts  three 
of which were settled just over six weeks before this loan was advanced. In my view, Mr P 
was clearly returning to not just Quidmarket but to other high-cost creditors after these loans 
had been settled. 
To me, this indicates someone in constant need of credit and wasnt using the loans to plug 
a short-term hole in his finances. It is more likely than not Mr P was having difficulties 
managing his long-term finances, as he was regularly seeking and then repaying payday 
loans. 
Overall, I do think the credit check results showed details of a customer who had been for at 
least the last 6 months was likely having problems managing his finances because there 
appeared to be a constant need for new credit. I do think, there was just too much evidence 
pointing towards Mr P having current financial difficulties and therefore this loan wasnt likely 
to be sustainable for him. 
I have thought about what Quidmarket says about there being little difference in the credit 
file between the two loans. But the adjudicator already explained that perhaps before the first loan further checks ought to have been carried out. And for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I do think by loan 2 there was enough in the credit report  considering Mr P was 
returning for a larger loan, to be repaid over a longer period and the fact his credit file 
showed recently opened payday loans as well as several closed loans. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr P loan 2.
If Quidmarket have sold the outstanding debt Quidmarket should buy it back if Quidmarket is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Quidmarket is not able to buy the debt 
back then Quidmarket should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A. Quidmarket should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr P 
having made overpayments then Quidmarket should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Quidmarket should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step C.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Quidmarket should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. Quidmarket shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal Quidmarket have already written-off. 
C. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr P as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman