DRN-4417664
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy the how BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) has handled her claims under 
her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P contacted BUPA in May 2023 with a view to booking an appointment for an x-ray. She 
used BUPAs online GP service. Instead of being referred by a GP for the x-ray, she was 
referred by a pharmacist. When she tried to book the appointment with the hospital, they 
said she wasnt on their system. She contacted BUPA in June 2023 and she was told she 
needed to get a GP referral.
Since this initial contact, Mrs P has had numerous calls with BUPA and was given conflicting 
information. She says shes had long call wait times, her emails were not being answered 
and no-one was listening to her to help sort out the issues she was having. She says BUPA 
has not handled her claim well at all and it wasnt until she contacted the Chief Executives 
Office that she was taken seriously.
Mrs P made a complaint to BUPA. It looked at her complaint and issued a final response in 
June 2023 and then again in August 2023. The second final response addressed her 
complaint points. BUPA said it apologised for the errors it made and offered her £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. BUPA said feedback would 
be given to those concerned so it can improve the service it provides to its members.
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. She says she 
would like BUPA to give her free cover of 6 months premiums as a resolution. Our 
investigator looked into it and said she was satisfied that BUPA had put things right in the 
way we would expect. She said the £250 compensation offered by BUPA in its second final 
response fairly and reasonably reflects the overall impact of the errors it identified and 
apologised for.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
In summary Mrs P said she feels 6 months free BUPA membership would be fair for the 
inconvenience shes suffered. Shes been a BUPA member for over 40 years and the £250 
compensation shes been offered only effectively covers just over a months premium which 
she doesnt think is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Its important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs P. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Its not in dispute that BUPA made errors and the customer service it provided was poor. The 
issue in dispute is the compensation that BUPA has offered and how it has put things right 
for Mrs P on this complaint. So, this is what Ill be considering here. 
Ive carefully reviewed all of the information provided by both parties. I can see that it took 
BUPA a few months to get to grips with the issues Mrs P was facing and it was only when a 
second review took place of Mrs Ps complaint that it seems her complaint was understood. 
Our role is to review whats happened and to see whether a business has done whats 
expected to put things right in such situations. While BUPA did take a while to understand 
the issues on Mrs Ps complaint, I can see the second final response covers each of her 
complaint points and explains where the issues arose and what went wrong. BUPA 
apologised for these errors and also offered £250 compensation in recognition of those. 
Theres no doubt that the service provided by BUPA in handling Mrs Ps claim was poor due 
to the lack of communication, the confusion in communication and the lack of updates. But 
Im satisfied that BUPA has dealt with Mrs P complaint as we would expect. I can see that it 
has also communicated to the relevant areas by way of feedback with a view to improving its 
service. 
I acknowledge that the situation must have been very challenging, and the service Mrs P 
received could have been a lot better. But overall, I think BUPA has dealt with Mrs Ps 
complaint fairly and reasonably. I think the compensation it has offered of £250 is also fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
While I appreciate that Mrs P wants six months of free cover as a resolution, I dont think 
thats fair. She has made a claim on the policy and therefore has had benefit of the cover so 
I dont think it would be fair for BUPA to also waive any of the premiums on her policy. 
Overall, I think BUPA has addressed Mrs Ps complaint in the way we would expect and the 
£250 is fair compensation for what happened. 
It follows that I dont require BUPA to do anything further except that if Mrs P accepts my 
final decision, then to make the payment of £250 to Mrs P within 28 days of her accepting it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about 
BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman