DRN-2928464
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) are pursuing him for a debt.
What happened
On 3 March 2021, the balance of Mr Ls joint account with his wife was £2,328.01 debit - with 
an overdraft limit of £2,500. On 4 March 2021, £5,000 was paid into the account. The 
balance was then £2,618.45 credit. On 5 March 2021, Mr L went to a branch of NatWest and 
asked that his name was removed from the joint account he held with his wife. The form was 
signed by himself and his wife. On 5 March 2021, a payment of £5,000 was made from the 
joint account, leaving an overdrawn balance of £2,331.55 debit. As at 10 May 2021, the 
balance was £2,492.39 debit.
Mr L complained. He said he was told in the branch that his name would be removed 
immediately. He was now being chased by NatWest for the outstanding debt. He said his 
wife was going though an IVA and it wasnt fair that he was being asked for the debt  as 
well as her under the IVA. His credit file was now marked, and he was having difficulty in 
getting a mortgage.
NatWest said they didnt have any notes of what was said at the branch visit on 5 March 
2021. But their process was that it could take three to five working days to take someone off 
a joint account, or longer if there was an overdraft facility. This was because they had to 
complete their credit checks. Therefore, Mr L was liable for the debt on the account and had 
to repay it.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said NatWest had acted fairly. NatWest 
had told Mr L that he was jointly liable for the debt with his wife, and he agreed with that. 
Theyd acted in line with their processes  which said thy needed to assess the overdraft 
facility, so Mr Ls name couldnt be removed on the same day.
Mr L disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr L is coming from  as he says he was told by NatWest when he visited it 
on 5 March 2021 - that his name would be taken off the account on the same day. If that had 
happened, then he says he wouldnt be liable for the debt on the joint account  and 
NatWest are now asking that he pays that off. He says he cant afford to do that. He wants to 
get a mortgage but is finding that difficult  because his credit file has been marked.
Ive looked at what happened here. NatWest dont have a record of what was said when Mr 
L visited the branch. So  I must form a view based on the probability of what happened. 
Mr L gave NatWest an authority to remove him from the joint account in the name of himself 
and his wife. I can see that this form was signed by both Mr L and his wife and dated 5 
March 2021. It said Please note that with the changes to account ownership, we will need to 
review the lending arrangements on the account. This could involve an internal credit 
assessment on the remaining party. All parties, including the party being removed from the 
account, will remain liable for any outstanding facilities until this assessment has been 
completed. So  the form says that if there was an overdraft facility, theyd need to review it 
 and until that took place, both parties were liable for the debt. There was an overdraft 
facility of £2,500  so NatWest needed to check what the position was with that. And 
NatWest then wrote to Mr L on 12 March 2021 and said that  having looked at the overdraft 
 that both Mr L and his wife were liable for the debt. This was because they were relying on 
the income of both Mr L and his wife for the overdraft. The letter said the borrowing was 
agreed on affordability of both parties. It went onto say that until the debt was repaid both 
parties remain jointly liable for the debt.  I also looked at NatWests operating procedures  
and they also say that a period of time was needed before someone was taken off a joint 
account  because of the need to assess the overdraft facility. NatWest told us that the 
instructions were made clear to staff.
Its standard for banks to consider holders of a joint account jointly and severally liable for 
any debts on it. This means  that both parties were liable to repay the balance of the 
overdraft - in this case, £2,331.55  as at 5 March 2021. So  while I cant comment on the 
terms of Mr Ls wifes IVA, it would be normal for the debt to be shown in her IVA. But even if 
that were the case, Mr L would also remain liable for it as part of the agreement he had with 
NatWest.
Mr L told us that a credit of £5,000 was paid into the account on 4 March 2021 and a 
payment out of £5,000 was made on 5 March 2021. This left the debit balance of £2,331.55. 
I looked at the bank statements and agree that this was the case. But  I can also see that 
the payment of £5,000 was made to an account in Mr Ls name  at another bank. I make no 
other comment than record that thats what the bank statement shows.
And so  I think that NatWest acted fairly  and I wont be asking them to do anymore here. 
Mr L remains liable for the debt. I think he should talk to NatWest about it and if hes in 
financial difficulty, see if they can help him  but thats down to NatWest to decide.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman