DRN-1990359
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) closed her account without 
giving her notice or good reason to do so.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and 
is known to both Miss C and Clydesdale, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again 
here in any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive 
not mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
of direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Miss C had a bank account with Clydesdale and it went into an unarranged 
overdraft position. Clydesdale wrote to Miss C giving notice of its intention to close the 
account but the address on the letter was incorrect. Miss C said she did not receive the letter 
and so was shocked to learn, sometime later, that her account had been closed when she 
tried to make a purchase in a store. 
When Miss C complained Clydesdale accepted that the address had been incorrect but 
felt she would have received their letter since it was only the last 3 digits of the postcode 
that were wrong. Clydesdale sent Miss C £100 in recognition of that error in 
incorrectly addressing her correspondence but Miss C was unhappy with that and so brought 
the complaint to this service and an investigator looked into it. Having done so, the 
investigator thought it was likely that Miss C did not receive the letter and agreed that there 
had been poor service. The investigator thought the amount of compensation offered was 
insufficient and suggested an increase of £75 was fair and reasonable. She also thought any 
adverse entries ought to be removed from Miss Cs credit file.
Clydesdale didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes 
between consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have 
taken into account both sides views in considering whether Clydesdale acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent 
decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this 
case, beyond the incorrect postcode on the letter, I dont think that Clydesdale has done 
anything wrong. Ill explain why. Ive looked at the terms and conditions operating for this account. Clydesdale is able 
to choose to end a relationship with its customer, just as that customer can choose to close 
their account and bank elsewhere. Clydesdale is not required to give reasons for 
that decision and is entitled to rely on the agreement it has with its customer. But the main 
issue here is whether Clydesdale actually gave proper notice to close Miss C's account. The 
letter was incorrectly addressed, and Clydesdale accept that. Their argument is that Miss C 
would have received the letter in any event, because the error in the address was only 
minor. 
If the notice had been correctly addressed I could say with confidence that Clydesdale 
had acted reasonably and in the event the letter hadnt come to Miss Cs attention then that 
could not be Clydesdales fault. But Miss C says she did not receive the letter, and there is 
no evidence to suggest she did. And I have no reason to doubt the veracity of Miss 
Cs statement that she did not receive it. In fact her statement that it never came into her 
hands is corroborated in part by the incorrect address on the letter, as on the face of it a 
wrongly addressed letter probably will not reach the intended recipient. So, in considering 
what is most likely to have happened here, and on the balance of probabilities, because the 
address was incorrect I am bound to conclude Miss C did not receive the letter giving her 
notice to close the account. I do accept the point that it is possible that Miss C did receive 
the letter despite the incorrect address, but I think sufficient doubt is raised by a wrongly 
addressed letter to support the view that on balance it is more likely that she did not.
Clydesdale has accepted that it didnt get things right to some degree because it 
has compensated Miss C by paying her £100. Our investigator didnt believe this was 
sufficient to put matters right and increased the sum by £75, which Clydesdale disagree with. 
Ive given this some further thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards 
this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also taken into account, in 
the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had on Miss C. Miss C only 
found out that her account had been closed when she was trying to make a purchase, and 
that must have been both embarrassing and distressing for her. Putting all of this into 
the balance I think what our investigator suggests is fair and reasonable. It is in line with 
similar cases and is enough to put matters right.
Ive given thought to whether Clydesdale should remove the adverse data from Miss 
Cs credit file, and I dont think they should. The data they reported was factual data about 
Miss Cs account. The fact that Miss C did not receive the letter telling her that Clydesdale 
were going to close her account has no relevance on this issue, since the position, in so far 
as reporting the facts are concerned, is the same. Miss Cs account was operated by her in 
the way it was, and Clydesdale sent her notice that it was going to close the account 
because of that. The fact the letter was never received is in my view immaterial. Businesses 
have a responsibility to record correctly the status of any account, and are obliged to report 
factual information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). In this case that is all they have 
done and I therefore cant say they have acted unreasonably in notifying the CRAs on the 
status of Miss Cs account.
My provisional decision
When I issued my provisional decision I found that Clydesdale has paid £100 to settle the 
complaint, but that this was insufficient, and was of the view that Clydesdale should pay Miss 
C a further £75 bringing the total compensation payment to £175. I also thought that 
Clydesdale had been correct in reporting Miss C's circumstances to the CRAs since they 
were following their procedures in reporting factual information. As such I did not require 
Clydesdale to remove adverse entries.Clydesdale didn't respond to my provisional decision but Miss C did, stating she strongly 
disagreed with my decision in particular my views regarding her credit file. She asked me to 
look at the matter again, and I can confirm that I have. I have taken account of all that she 
has said but there is nothing new within that, which would cause me to change my opinion.
My final decision
Clydesdale has already paid £100 to settle Miss C's complaint, and this is insufficient. So my 
final decision is that Clydesdale should pay Miss C a further £75 bringing the total 
compensation payment to £175, which in my view is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman