DRN-2059620
The complaint
Mr M complains that he couldnt log into the Bank of Scotland plc mobile banking app and 
with the way it has dealt with him in rectifying matters and when he complained. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M says despite using the correct password he was locked out of his Bank of 
Scotland account. But the bank says he was incorrectly keying in his memorable 
information. As such I think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to not allow the 
login to continue.
When Mr M called to complete the transaction, I think it was also reasonable for the 
bank to ask him to stay on the phone line to reset his password before he could 
register his complaint. And I dont think that was Bank of Scotland putting up barriers 
to him making a complaint as Mr M has suggested.
If Mr M was too busy to do so at that time, he couldve reasonably phoned the bank 
back later at a more convenient time to register his complaint as it had said he could 
do.
Overall, although I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling, I dont think on balance that 
Bank of Scotland has made an error or done anything wrong. And I cannot 
reasonably ask it to pay Mr M any compensation as hed like.
Bank of Scotland has however said it is prepared to reimburse £8 of call costs I 
understand that offer is still available and if Mr M wishes to accept it, he should 
contact the bank directly.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman
