DRN-3735967
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made 
under his Premier Guarantee New Home Warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of eight flats. Damage has been caused 
to the common parts of the building, which means other leaseholders have been affected, in 
addition to Mr K. However, this complaint has been brought by Mr K only.
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat in full 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key issues in dispute which I need to decide. This isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either party, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and 
my role within it.
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  acting as 
representatives or agents of either Mr K or Amtrust. But for ease of reference, Ill only refer 
to Mr K and Amtrust in this decision  even when referring to the actions or arguments of 
their representatives.
In 2018, issues with the roof of Mr Ks building were identified and the freeholder, who Ill call 
B, sought to claim under the warranty. Mr K is now a director of B.
Amtrust has now accepted the claim, but because the issue relates to damage to a common 
part of the building, the roof, it says one policy excess per policyholder applies. 
Mr K has raised several concerns with this position. Hes argued that the policy terms 
specifically state that the freeholder can be a policyholder. He says this claim has been 
brought by B and so only one excess should apply. Hes also suggested that the policy only 
covers one housing unit, as defined, and so again only one excess should apply. He says 
Amtrusts interpretation of the policy terms is unfair and essentially means the warranty isnt 
fit for purpose.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint. She explained while the policy terms 
envisaged that B could be a policyholder, B had no insurable interest in any of the demised 
flats, and it was the individual leasehold owners, not B, who benefitted from cover for their 
share of liability for repair of the common parts. But as Mr K was a leaseholder (and so a 
policyholder), he could bring a complaint in his capacity as an individual policyholder.
Our investigator said that each leaseholder held a policy covering them for their property and 
their share of the common parts. She said the damage in this case had affected a common 
part and so it was reasonable for Amtrust to apply one excess per policyholder. Our 
investigator also agreed that Amtrust had caused Mr K some distress and inconvenience 
and so recommended it pay him £250 compensation.
Mr K didnt agree. So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Is B a policyholder?
Mr K has pointed to the definition of policyholder within the warranty booklet which states:
For Sections 3.2,3.3,3.4 and 3.5: The owner acquiring a freehold or leasehold 
interest, or their successors in title, or any mortgagee in possession or lessor 
excluding the Developer, Builder, any relatives or associated companies or anyone 
having an interest in the construction or sale of the Housing Unit.
Based on this, Mr K argues that B  as the freeholder  is the policyholder bringing a claim. 
So, as its one claim brought by one policyholder, Mr K argues that only one excess should 
reasonably apply.
Ive thought about Mr Ks point here. But in this case, there is no evidence to suggest that B 
holds a policy covering its freehold interest. Instead, each leaseholder, including Mr K, has 
an individual policy which covers them for their demise and their share of the common parts. 
This is further supported within the policy wording definitions of common parts and the 
financial limits section relating to common parts, which state:
Those parts of a multi-ownership building (of which each Housing Unit is part), for a 
common or general use, for which the Policyholder has joint ownership and/or legal 
responsibility.
And
The maximum the Underwriter will pay for any claim relating to Common Parts will 
be the amount that the Policyholder has a legal liability to contribute toward the cost 
of repairs, rectification or rebuilding works. Claims are subject to financial limits for 
the individual sections detailed above and the Minimum Claim Value and/or Excess 
as detailed in the Initial and Final Certificates.
There are eight flats in Mr Ks building, each with a warranty covering the individual flat and 
their proportion of the common parts. Therefore, Im satisfied that B is not a policyholder in 
its own right.
What is a common parts claim? 
Mr Ks warranty is split into various sections of cover. Section 3.3 Structural Insurance is 
the relevant section to Miss D and Mr Rs claim and complaint. This section states:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and 
notified to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
1. The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which 
has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of the 
Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to 
its original specification.The warranty defines Major Damage as:

a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
b)  A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of 
or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of 
Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter. 
in either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components 
of: 
 the Structure; or 
 the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope 
which is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
Below are the relevant parts of the definition of Housing Unit:
The property described in the Certificate of Insurance comprising:
The structure;

The common parts
And below are the relevant parts of the definition of Structure:
The following elements shall comprise the Structure of a Housing Unit:
 

 load-bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and associated guard rails, 
walls and roofs, together with load-bearing retaining walls necessary for stability; 

 
 roof covering; 

What the above means in practice is that the section of the warranty which applies covers 
 physical damage  caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components of the Structure. The policy is covering the damage caused by the defect, not 
the defect itself. Therefore, its the location of the damage that determines the type of claim 
being made, rather than the location of the defect.
If, for example, the damage in this case was located solely within Mr Ks demise (flat), then 
Id most likely consider it unreasonable for Amtrust to deem this a common parts claim, 
regardless of the fact the defect was in the roof  because what matters is where the 
damage is. But in this case, both the defect and the damage are solely affecting the roof of 
the building. 
Mr Ks lease sets out his obligation to pay a service charge to B, for the maintenance and 
upkeep of the structure (including the roof). And the policy definition of a common part is 
Those parts of a multi-ownership building (of which each Housing Unit is part), for a 
common or general use, for which the Policyholder has joint ownership and/or legal 
responsibility. So, in the circumstances, I consider it reasonable to conclude that the roof is a common part. 
And as the damage in this case is solely affecting the roof, I think Amtrust can reasonably 
consider Mr Ks claim to be a common parts claim.
The claim decision
As explained above, Mr Ks warranty only covers him for the proportion of the common parts 
he has a responsibility for. I dont know what proportion of the common parts are attributable 
to each leaseholder, but in the circumstances, I dont think thats important.
I say this because Amtrust has covered the claim for damage to the roof in full. So, as there 
are eight warranties in place, each covering their proportion of the common parts, it follows 
that in order for the damage to be covered in full  as it has been  each policyholder 
effectively has to claim on their warranty for their proportion of the common parts.
The warranty defines the Excess as:
As noted on the Initial Certificate and Certificate of Insurance the Underwriter shall 
not be liable for the first part of any payment made in respect of a valid claim under 
the policy for a Housing Unit.
It also explains that the excess is subject to indexation:
"The Limit of Indemnity and Excess referred to within the Certificate of Insurance will 
be increased in line with the RICS House Re-Building Index or 10% per annum 
compound, whichever is the lesser, on each anniversary of the commencement of 
the period of insurance for Sections 3 2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 of this Policy. For the 
purpose of settlement of any claim hereunder the Limit of Indemnity, as adjusted in 
accordance with the foregoing provisions, shall be regarded as the Limit of Indemnity 
at the time of discovery by the Policyholder of such claim
Amtrust is entitled to apply an excess for the first part of each claim. And for the reasons 
above, I agree that there have been eight claims. So, it follows that by applying eight, 
indexed linked, excesses, Amtrust has acted in line with the terms of the warranty. And I 
dont consider that acting in line with the terms of the warranty delivers an unfair outcome in 
the circumstances of this claim and complaint. 
Customer service
Mr K has raised numerous concerns with Amtrusts (and its agents) handling of this claim 
and complaint. Complaint handling isnt strictly a regulated activity that our service can 
consider. But Ive considered Amtrusts handling of the situation, in the round, and the 
impact this had on Mr K. 
Ive carefully considered everything both sides have said about the length of time things took 
to resolve, the mistakes which were made around the scope of repairs and about the time 
Mr K has spent dealing with the claim.
I can see that there have been delays and errors caused by Amtrust and that these resulted 
in Mr K spending additional time and effort on the claim and complaint. But Im also mindful 
that Mr K was dealing with Amtrust primarily in his professional capacity as a director of B. 
That said, I do accept that Mr K has suffered undue distress and inconvenience, in his 
personal capacity as a leaseholder, as a result of the issues caused by Amtrust. Having considered Amtrusts handling of the situation, in the round, and the impact this had 
on Mr K, solely in his personal capacity, I agree with our investigator that £250 
compensation is enough to fairly put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part.
Amtrust Europe Limited must pay Mr K £250  for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him  if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman