DRN-3594299
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Tacklewild Limited (trading as Tacklewild Financial Services) failed to 
set up life assurance, that was for mortgage protection purposes, for her and her husband 
(Mr A) in an appropriate timescale. Because of this, the insurer declined a claim made under 
the policy as Mr A died after it commenced which meant there was a shortfall in cover. 
Since referring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, Mrs A has been represented by 
a third-party firm. But, for ease of reference, Ill only refer to Mrs A in in my decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr and Mrs applied for a mortgage on 30 January 2018 which, I understand, completed at 
the end of March 2018. Following this, an application for life assurance was submitted by 
Tacklewild on 9 May 2018 for Mr and Mrs A. The application was for £405,000 of cover for a 
monthly premium of £86.27.
Because of the health conditions Mr A disclosed in the application, the insurer required 
information  a questionnaire - from his GP to underwrite the policy. This wasnt received by 
the insurer until 21 November 2018. The insurer reviewed the questionnaire and decided 
terms could be offered but, to proceed with the application, they would need Mr and Mrs A to 
complete a declaration of health (DoH) form. This was because of the amount of time that 
had passed since the application was originally submitted  so they needed Mr and Mrs A to 
confirm there hadnt been any significant changes in their health. 
The insurer emailed Tacklewild on 12 December 2018 providing a link for the DoH form to 
be completed. Mrs A called the insurer on 20 December 2018 and explained their adviser 
was having some difficulty opening the email. So, the insurer forwarded Mrs A the email 
theyd sent Tacklewild and explained a wet signature was required on the DoH form but 
they could accept a scanned copy of it.
Mrs A sent the DoH form back on 23 December 2018 but this was blank. Mrs A then sent 
another DoH form to the insurer on 2 January 2019 but this contained electronic signatures 
with a separate page attached that included scanned wet signatures. In this form, Mr and 
Mrs A told the insurer theyd applied for cover with another insurance company since the 
original application was completed but details werent provided.
The insurer couldnt accept this DoH form so they asked Mr and Mrs A to re-sign and re-date 
it. A correctly signed DoH form was received by the insurer on 17 January 2019. The insurer 
then asked Mrs A on 23 January 2019 for details about the application for cover that theyd 
made elsewhere.
Mrs A responded the same day saying they hadnt applied for cover elsewhere. But she said 
another agent, who was pushy, put through an application even though theyd advised him 
that their adviser was dealing with this application. Mrs A confirmed they had existing cover 
in place, provided details of the policy, but explained this would be cancelled upon the new 
policy being set up. 
Mr A sadly died on 25 January 2019.
The Tacklewild adviser called the insurer on 29 January 2019 enquiring about the policy. He 
said he thought the policy went live the previous week but hed gone on to a portal and 
wasnt sure what he needed to do, so he asked the insurer to check. The insurer said terms 
had been issued that day and so it was ready to start. The adviser asked for this to happen 
and confirmed Mr and Mrs A were happy with the increased monthly premium cost 
(£137.28). The insurer said a welcome pack would be sent to Mr and Mrs A.
A claim was made under the policy but the insurer declined it as they said Mr A died before 
cover commenced. Mrs A complained to Tacklewild in January 2022 about their role in 
setting up the policy. She said Tacklewild left her with a shortfall in cover after theyd 
arranged her mortgage, and that they shouldve advised her of this risk. Mrs A also thought 
Tacklewild ought to have arranged the life assurance to start at the same time as the 
mortgage. And so, had it not been for this delay, she wouldve been able to make a 
successful claim on the policy for her husbands death. To put things right, Mrs A wanted 
Tacklewild to pay the sum assured under the policy and compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Tacklewild didnt respond to the complaint and so Mrs A asked the Financial Ombudsman to 
consider it. Our investigator didnt think Tacklewild had to do anything further. In short, she 
said:
There was limited evidence available from when the policy was applied for, so she 
considered what  on balance  she thought was most likely to have happened.
She noted that Mrs A says she was told by Tacklewild the life assurance application 
would start once the mortgage was in place. But there wasnt anything to evidence 
this and she thought it was most likely that the agreed priority was the mortgage 
application, not having a protection policy immediately in place. 
Mr and Mrs A signed the mortgage application which made them aware of the risk of 
not having sufficient cover in place. So, they had the appropriate information to make 
an informed decision about proceeding with the mortgage application without having 
a protection policy in place at the time. 
She noted Mrs A says she had to chase Tacklewild to start the life assurance 
application after the mortgage completed. And that, even though Tacklewild initially 
told them they were too busy with other clients, Tacklewild proceeded with the life 
assurance application even though Mr and Mrs A had started one with another firm 
(which they cancelled). But, again, there wasnt anything to evidence this or to show 
Tacklewild delayed the policy application as Mrs A claims.
If there was an agreement for Tacklewild to arrange life assurance for Mr and Mrs A, 
then it seems unusual that their response was that they didnt have the capacity to 
take on the application. 
She noted Mrs A said she felt obliged to continue with Tacklewilds services, which 
resulted in the cancellation of the application started with the other firm. And that, had 
this not happened, this policy wouldve likely been in place before Mr A died. But she 
thought this was a personal decision and so Tacklewild couldnt be responsible for it. The terms of agreement between Tacklewild and Mr and Mrs A isnt available. So, 
she couldnt assume Tacklewild were required to fully manage the life assurance 
application once it was submitted to the insurer  especially as this isnt the usual 
process. Once an application is submitted to an insurer, its the insurers 
responsibility to process it within reasonable timescales. 
Tacklewild didnt have control over the insurers consideration of the application, 
including how long it would take. But, even if Tacklewild had chased the insurer 
more, she wasnt sure it wouldve made a difference. 
The insurer initially dealt with Tacklewild but later directly with Mrs A. This was 
sensible in the circumstances as it was more time efficient, avoiding the insurer 
having to go through a third party. There also werent any objections from Mrs A 
about this at the time and, if Mrs A had any queries or wasnt sure about something, 
she could still have referred these to the adviser. So, she didnt think Tacklewild 
made an error in allowing Mrs A to communicate with the insurer directly. 
Mrs A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly send my condolences to Mrs A. I know this will be a very difficult time and I 
dont underestimate her disappointment, or the financial impact, the claim being declined has 
had on her. I want to reassure Mrs A that Ive given this matter, and everything shes said, 
careful consideration. I know this wont be the outcome shes hoping for but, for similar 
reasons as our investigator, I dont think I can fairly conclude Tacklewild is responsible for 
the delay in the life assurance policy being set up.
At which point Id like to say that Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Due to the time thats passed since the life assurance application was made, there is limited 
documentary evidence available. And, as I wasnt present at the time, I cant be sure what 
was discussed between Tacklewild and Mr and Mrs A. Because of this, Ive had to reach my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
There arent any terms of agreement to show what obligations, if any, Tacklewild had in 
respect of setting up life assurance for Mr and Mrs A. The mortgage application did however 
set out what insurance was required as a condition of lending, it says:
Insurance
You agree that it will be your responsibility to maintain payments on the Loan. Your 
payments will not be protected in the event of death, accident, sickness, 
unemployment or other similar circumstances. As a condition of your Loan, You must 
have adequate buildings insurance for the mortgaged property(ies) that You and/or 
others have provided as security for the Loan in place at exchange or conclusion of 
missives (for house purchase) and completion (for remortgages or Secured Loan) 
and ensure that they continue at all times to be insured. You are not required as a condition of your Mortgage Loan or Secured Loan to have 
any other insurance but You might like to consider taking out insurance to cover 
circumstances that might arise, such as death, accident, illness or unemployment. 
Your payments will not be protected in the event of death, accident or sickness, 
unemployment or other similar circumstances unless you arrange your own 
insurance for this.
This was signed and dated by Mr and Mrs A on 30 January 2018. I think it was reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs A to have read this and, had they done so, they wouldve been aware of the 
risk of being underinsured in the event of one of the circumstances mentioned  including 
death - occurring unless they took out their own policy. 
Mrs A says the adviser told them he would sort everything out and that life assurance would 
be arranged after the mortgage was completed as it wasnt a condition of lending. And that 
she had to chase the adviser after the mortgage completed because she hadnt heard 
anything but was told that he was too busy. Then, after contacting another firm to arrange 
life assurance, the adviser contacted her to say that he was starting an application. 
As Ive said, there isnt anything to evidence what was discussed at the time between 
Tacklewild and Mr and Mrs A. But I agree with our investigator that, if there was an 
agreement (even verbal) for Tacklewild to arrange life assurance, it would seem unusual for 
them to have said they didnt have the capacity to process an application before then later 
doing so  particularly as setting up the policy wouldve generated commission for the 
adviser. But if life assurance was a significant priority to Mr and Mrs A, and they didnt want 
to wait until the mortgage completed, then I think they couldve highlighted this to the 
adviser. I think its likely that, if theyd done so, the adviser wouldve submitted the 
application to the insurer sooner  and before the mortgage completed. 
Ive also taken into consideration that Mr and Mrs As mortgage application was for 
commercial (buy to let) purposes. Therefore, while there are still benefits to taking out life 
assurance to protect against the capital owed, there is arguably a lower risk compared to 
mortgage applications for residential purposes. This is because a buy to let property will 
typically generate enough income to cover the required mortgage repayments whereas a 
residential property, naturally, doesnt. So, although I dont doubt Mr and Mrs A wanted life 
assurance as a way of financially protecting themselves, I think its likely that the mortgage 
application was of a greater immediate importance to them at the time. 
It follows that Im satisfied Mr and Mrs A ought to have been aware of the risk of being 
underinsured. And, although life assurance is often set up at the same time or ahead of 
lending being agreed, this isnt a requirement and so I dont think I can reasonably conclude 
Tacklewild is responsible for any delay in the life assurance application being submitted.  
Once the life assurance application was submitted to the insurer, it was largely outside of 
Tacklewilds control. This is because it was for the insurers underwriters to decide whether 
they could offer cover and, if so, on what terms. I appreciate there was a significant delay in 
the insurer obtaining the medical information they required to make their underwriting 
decision. But while this was of no fault of Mr and Mrs A, I likewise dont think I can fairly hold 
Tacklewild responsible for it either. The insurer regularly chased the GP surgery for this 
information. So, even if Tacklewild contacted the insurer about the application during this 
period, I think its unlikely it wouldve made a difference. 
Following the insurer confirming cover could be offered to Mr and Mrs A subject to the DoH 
form being completed, Tacklewild had difficulties opening the email they received containing 
it. Its unclear why they had this difficulty but IT problems do happen and so I dont think it would be fair to attribute the claim being declined  because the policy commenced four 
days after Mr As death  solely to this. Given the IT problem, I think it was appropriate that 
Mr and Mrs A dealt directly with the insurer in providing the DoH form to set up the policy. 
Unfortunately, there were issues with the DoH not being correctly signed. As Tacklewild 
werent involved with the completion of the DoH form I dont think they can be held 
responsible for the further delays. That said, if Mr and Mrs A required any assistance with 
completed the DoH form then they couldve contacted Tacklewild about it at the time. I cant 
see that this happened. 
Upon the insurers requirements being met, new terms were issued on 29 January 2019. 
The Tacklewild adviser called the insurer the same day to query the policy application as he 
wasnt sure what further was needed. He then asked the insurer to start cover immediately, 
confirming Mr and Mrs A were happy to proceed. I therefore dont think Tacklewild caused 
delays in setting up the policy after the application was submitted to the insurer either.
Im aware that Mrs A has said that they felt obliged to continue with Tacklewilds services 
even though another firm had already started an application for life assurance. While I 
sympathise with the unfortunate position Mrs A now finds herself in, and why she feels a 
policy may have been in place before Mr A died had they continued with the application with 
the other firm instead, they werent obligated to use Tacklewild if they didnt want to. So, 
although I appreciate they may have felt pressured to do so as way of maintaining their 
relationship with Tacklewild, this was a personal decision they made. And there wasnt 
anything preventing Mr and Mrs A continuing with the life assurance application with the 
other firm at the time if they wanted. So, I dont think Tacklewild is responsible for 
Mr and Mrs As choice to use them instead. 
On a final note, I understand Mrs A is dissatisfied Tacklewild didnt inform them that the 90-
day free life cover had expired during the application process. Although I appreciate the 
expiration of this free cover meant Mr and Mrs A were underinsured, I dont think I can 
reasonably say there was a failing on Tacklewilds part not to inform them about this. This is, 
firstly, as I cant be sure what terms of agreement were in place - so I dont know whether 
Tacklewild were obligated to provide ongoing advice. And, secondly, even if Mr and Mrs A 
were informed about the cover expiry then Im not sure what difference it would have made. 
This is because, while Mr and Mrs A had the option of seeking alternative cover, Im not 
persuaded they wouldve done so. I say this as Mrs A has explained that they felt obligated 
to use Tacklewilds services in acquiring life assurance to maintain the relationship. So, I 
think its more likely than not that they wouldve continued with the same life assurance 
application even if theyd been made aware the free life cover had expired. 
I realise Mrs A will be disappointed by the outcome Ive reached. But, for the above reasons, 
I dont think Tacklewild is responsible for the delay in the life assurance policy being set up. 
So, Im not directing them to take any action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman