DRN-4035069
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he purchased under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) was misrepresented to him by the supplying 
dealership, a dealership that I will call B.
What happened
On 12 October 2022 Mr F entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a new 
car costing £38,984, a car he took delivery of on 14 October 2022.
On 14 November 2022 Mr F complained to BMWFS that he understood that the car he had 
purchased would come with a bigger infotainment system screen than it did and for this 
reason he was looking to reject the car as was his statutory right.
BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In summary it said:
The car Mr F purchased was supplied with the precise specification he had asked for 
and had agreed to.
The car Mr F purchased had been manufactured with a smaller infotainment system 
screen than its predecessor since March 2022, and Mr F placed his order (for his car) 
in September 2022.
It accepts Mr F test drove a car that came with a bigger infotainment system screen, 
but this was because the car he ultimately agreed to purchase wasnt available to 
test drive and the car that was available was a pre March 2022 one.
B provided Mr F with an online view of the car he purchased (before he did so) and 
this view showed the precise type of infotainment system screen it would come with.
B explained the differences between the car he test drove and the one he agreed to 
purchase.
In January 2023, and unhappy with BMWFS response to his complaint, Mr F referred it to 
our service.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr F didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Having considered everything the parties have said and submitted I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I dont dispute that Mr F understood that the car he agreed to purchase would come with a 
bigger infotainment system screen than it did. But based on what both parties have said and 
submitted Im not persuaded that this was a result of any failure on the part of B or BMWFS.
In my view, on the balance of probabilities, Mr F assumed the car he ultimately agreed to 
purchase would come with the same size infotainment system screen as the one in the car 
he test drove, not that he was told by B that it would. I say this because:
It isnt unusual for a consumer to test drive a car of a different specification to the one 
they are looking to purchase especially when the car they are looking to purchase is 
new (rather than used) and one which has undergone a recent change in its build 
and/or specification.
Im satisfied that B would have known that the car Mr F was looking to purchase 
would have a smaller infotainment system screen than the one in the car he test 
drove (given when BMWFS says the change to the same took place).
I find BMWFS submission that B provided Mr F with an online view of the car he 
purchased (before he did so) and this view showed the precise type of infotainment 
system screen it would come with to be both plausible and persuasive.
I find BMWFS submission that B explained the differences between the car he test 
drove and the one he agreed to purchase to be both plausible and persuasive. 
Furthermore, I see no reason why B wouldnt have explained the differences to Mr F 
given that in my view its a well held belief, by many, that cars that have undergone a 
recent change to their build and/or specification is for the better rather than for the 
worse.
Ive seen nothing in the documentation signed by Mr F that says the car would be 
supplied with a bigger infotainment system screen than it was ultimately supplied 
with.
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed but given what I say above Im simply not persuaded 
the car Mr F purchased was misrepresented to him by B, or that BMWFS needs to accept 
rejection of it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complait.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman