DRN-1104680
 
The complaint
Mr T says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr T bought the policy in January 2006 when he telephoned Capital One to activate his 
credit card. The policy cost 79p per £100 Mr T owed on his credit card and it wouldve paid 
10% of the outstanding balance on the card each month for up to 12 months if Mr T couldnt 
work because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Capital One says Mr T applied for his credit card and then when he telephoned to activate 
his credit card, a representative from Capital One sold him the policy. It says it was at this 
time that the policy was added to his account  and its provided a copy of its internal screen 
shot that it says records this. So based on everything Ive seen - Im satisfied its more likely 
that the PPI was sold over the telephone.
Capital Ones not been able to give us a recording of the call. I dont think thats unusual 
given how long its been since the PPI was sold. But that means I dont know exactly what 
was said about the PPI on that day in November 2004.
So Ive looked at everything I do have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Ive also taken into account what I know about how Capital One sold policies in activation 
calls around the time this policy was sold. And based on what Ive seen I think its likely that 
during the call Mr T wouldve been made aware that the PPI was optional. I also think he 
wouldve been asked to agree to it being added to his credit card account. 
Ive seen copies of Mr Ts credit card statements from 2006 onwards and the PPI appears 
on them. And I think that if the policy had been added to his account without either his 
knowledge or his consent he wouldve queried it or complained about it in the first few 
months after this happened in 2006. So taking everything in to consideration, I think the 
policy was optional and Mr T agreed to take it.Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T  this means it didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for him. But it still had to give Mr T information in a 
clear, fair and non-misleading way so that he could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take the policy out.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr T wouldve been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  he told us he was employed and in good health. And based on what I 
know about his circumstances and what hes told us - it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to him. He did tell us he had some sick pay from his employer  but this policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this, and for longer. So I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said about  but these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman