DRN-4112273
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that part of their claim for storm damage was unfairly declined 
under their home insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Following a storm Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their policy. So, RSA appointed a surveyor 
to validate and review the claim. RSA advised Mr and Mrs S to get a roofer to repair the 
damage to the roof. Mr and Mrs S stated that the roofer thought the damage had been 
caused directly by the storm.
RSA reviewed the surveyors report. It accepted there was a storm at the time of the 
reported incident, so it decided to accept the claim for the internal damage caused to the 
property under the accidental damage section of the policy. However, RSA wouldnt cover 
the costs to repair the external damage as it said it was caused by wear and tear which was 
excluded by the policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Based upon the evidence presented 
he didnt think the storm was the main cause of damage. He thought RSA had been fair to 
conclude the damage was caused by wear and tear. He thought RSA had declined the claim 
reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs S disagreed, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA decided to settle the claim for the internal damage, Ive focused my decision on 
whether I thought RSA was fair in declining the damage externally to Mr and Mrs S property.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
RSA accepted that storm conditions were present at the time of the report incident. So, I will 
move on to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
RSA said there was no evidence of damage to the roof caused by a one-off storm. The sort 
of damage Id expect because of a storm is dislodged tiles or torn felt. Ive examined the 
report from the surveyor. He explained that wear and tear was the cause of the damage. 
However, I can see the surveyor has observed a missing tile. I think a missing tile is 
consistent with the damage a storm might cause. So, Ive considered the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
RSA said wear and tear was the cause of the damage  so I have checked the surveyors 
report to see if it supports RSAs conclusion. The surveyor said the cause of damage was a 
natural breakdown of materials. He further commented moss growth, debris in gutter, lifted 
lead flashing due to wear and tear, missing tile. 
I have reviewed the photos that the surveyor took to support his findings. I think the 
surveyors commentary is consistent with what I can see in the photos. The roof does look to 
be in a generally poor state. It doesnt look like its been maintained for some time.
Therefore, I think RSA has been fair in concluding the main cause of the damage was due to 
wear and tear. I think its likely the poor maintenance caused a gradual deterioration to the 
roof. This is what the surveyor observed. I think RSA has been reasonable to conclude the 
storm wasnt the main cause of damage.
Ive checked the policy and there is a general exclusion on page 9 that states no cover is 
provided for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually. I think RSA 
has fairly declined the damage to the roof  as wear and tear is excluded from the policy.
I can see RSA said if Mr and Mrs S are able to provide any expert independent reports that 
contradict its findings, it would be happy to consider this. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. However, as I dont think RSA has done anything wrong, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman