DRN-3442324
The complaint
Mr H complained, via a representative, that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-
paying Gold Service and Premier Plus packaged accounts that were sold to him in 
December 1998 and August 2005. 
Mr H complained that hed had a fee-free account and approached Lloyds to get a loan for a 
wedding and was told that they only way he could do so was to upgrade his account to a 
packaged account. Mr H says he was in financial difficulties and was told that the packaged 
account would help improve his credit score. Hes also said that he never used the benefits 
and that it cost him more when he used the overdraft on the account.
Mr H has added, since contacting our service, that when the Premier Plus account was sold, 
he attended a Lloyds branch for mortgage advice. Mr H said that as part of this, he had an 
account review and was told that due to his level of income he would need the Premier 
account for the additional level of protection it offers.
What happened
Lloyds upheld Mr Hs complaint about the sale of the Gold Service account, but it didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint about the Premier Plus account. So one of our adjudicators 
assessed the complaint about the Premier Plus account, and she ultimately concluded that it 
had not been mis-sold.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be considered 
by an ombudsman.
As Lloyds has already put matters right in relation to the sale of the Gold Service account, I 
will only address the sale of the Premier Plus account in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think I should also explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I need to decide what I think was most likely 
to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Ive started out by considering whether Mr H was given a fair choice. And based on what he 
has said about the sale, on balance, I think that Mr H was given one. I say this because Mr H 
says that he was forced into the account  however Mr H has not said why exactly he 
thought he had no choice in the matter. Nor is there any evidence that indicates that Mr H 
mayve been coerced into upgrading his account. 
Mr H has said that he was told to upgrade to the account because of his level of income and 
because it provided greater protection. But that doesnt sound like Lloyds was presenting 
the account in a way that meant Mr H had no choice. On the contrary, Mr Hs recollections of 
events seem to suggest the account was recommended to him by Lloyds and Mr H went 
along with Lloyds recommendation, on the premise that itd be worth his while doing so for 
the features that it came with.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I think its more likely the case that Mr H agreed 
to the account knowing it was optional and that he didnt have to accept Lloyds 
recommendation if he didnt want to.
From looking at Mr Hs testimony, he seems to be saying that the account was mis-sold 
because Lloyds recommended it to him. But I should make it clear that Lloyds was able to 
recommend its products to its customers. So just because a bank recommends a product, 
doesnt in itself necessarily mean that the product was mis-sold either.
However, when a recommendation is made, as was the case with the Premier Plus account, 
Lloyds was obliged to ensure it was a reasonable fit for Mr Hs circumstances at the time.
Unfortunately, its not clear from the evidence that is available why exactly it was 
recommended to Mr H. Although going by Mr Hs recollections, it was because of the higher 
levels of protection it offered. So I have considered what the account offered at the time 
alongside what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time.
In 2005, I understand the Premier Plus account cost £15 per month and provided a range of 
benefits including worldwide travel insurance, airport lounge access, enhanced levels of 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and card protection cover. It also included other 
benefits such as a £250 interest free overdraft facility, with lower rates of interest (compared 
to other accounts) on balances overdrawn by more than this amount - up to the individuals 
agreed overdraft limit. Which, in Mr Hs case, was £5,000 at the time. I understand it also 
offered a number of other benefits such as access to a dedicated Premier banking team, 
reduced interest rates on loans, tailored mortgages and discounts on a range of other 
products too.
Mr H says that he didnt need mobile phone insurance as he says he was able to obtain 
cover elsewhere at a discount. However, I can see that Mr H went on to register a handset 
only a couple of months after he agreed to the Premier Plus account. This to me suggests 
that Mr H was able to benefit from this feature of the account. I can see he went on to 
register a number of other handsets over the lifetime of the account.
I also note that Mr H had a £5,000 overdraft, which he was regularly using (often exceeding 
£2,000 in each month) in the months prior to and after the upgrade. And information from the 
time suggests that, based on how much he was using his overdraft at the time, he was able 
to save a significant amount in interest, compared to the cost of the account, by having the 
Premier Plus account. 
For example, information from September 2005 says that the interest rate on Mr Hs Premier 
Plus account overdraft was 9.4% EAR (with no interest charged on the first £250). Whereas 
the Gold Service account charged 16.4% EAR (with no interest charged on the first £100). 
However, given that Lloyds accepts that it shouldnt have sold the Gold Service account to 
Mr H, the savings Mr H received were even greater when compared to what he wouldve 
been charged, had he held a standard fee-free account instead  which at the time charged 
18.2% EAR on the full overdrawn balance. Therefore, given the frequency and extent to 
which he used his overdraft at the time, it seems that Mr H was also able to benefit from the 
overdraft feature of the account too. 
I also note that the account offered individually tailored mortgages which, given that Mr H 
says he had attended a Lloyds branch to discuss a mortgage, mayve been something else 
that could of been of interest to him and another reason why he agreed to Lloyds 
recommendation to upgrade to the Premier Plus account.
Therefore, overall, I dont think that Lloydss recommendation that Mr H upgrade to the 
Premier Plus account was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
As well as making sure the recommendation was right for Mr H, Lloyds also had to make 
sure that Mr H was given the important information about the account so that he could make 
an informed decision. Due to the timescales involved, its now not clear to me what information Mr H was given. But 
I think its likely Mr H was given at least some information about the key features of the 
account and the cost. For example, its clear that Mr H was told about the mobile phone 
insurance, and also the need to register phones for them to be covered - as he did just that 
shortly after the upgrade. I can see he also later went on to claim on the breakdown cover. 
So again I think he was at least told that it was included with the account and how to go 
about making a claim if he needed to. And based on what I have seen about Mr Hs 
circumstances, Ive not seen anything to suggest that he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account had he been given more information about it.
I appreciate that Mr H may not have needed all of the benefits provided by the account, but 
as it was sold as a package, he was unable to pick and choose what it came with. I also 
appreciate that, over the course of time, the cost and benefits of the account varied, which 
mayve resulted in it no longer being as good value as it was initially. But that doesnt mean 
that Lloyds was acting unfairly or unreasonably by recommending the account to Mr H when 
it did. 
I also note that Mr H says that Lloyds never reviewed if the benefits were still suitable for 
him. But, apart from notifying him of changes made to the account and sending him annual 
eligibility reminders from around 2014, Lloyds was not obliged to review whether he was 
using the benefits. So I cant say that Lloyds has done anything wrong if it didnt do this. In 
other words, it was up to Mr H to contact Lloyds if he felt the account was no longer good 
value for money. Afterall, he wouldve known what benefits he was and wasnt using on the 
account and whether he was happy to keep paying the monthly account fee for those 
benefits. 
Mr H says that a requirement of the account was that he had to earn an income over a 
certain level. Mr H says his income dropped below this level in 2008, so says the account 
was inappropriate for him from that point onwards. However, although there was an income 
requirement to initially take out the account, Mr H was still eligible for and able to use the 
benefits for as long as he held the account. Essentially it was at Lloydss discretion whether 
to allow a customer to continue with the account if they no longer met the income 
requirement. So Mr Hs ability to use the benefits was not restricted or affected in any way 
because of this. Although of course, Mr H was free to contact Lloyds if he felt the cost of the 
account had become excessive in light of his change in income. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, on balance I dont think that the Premier Plus 
account was mis-sold. I therefore dont think itd be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund 
Mr Hs account fees back to him.  
Finally, Mr H has said that he went on to apply for loans, but never received a discount on 
them, which was a benefit of the account when it was sold to him. I understand this benefit of 
the account was removed around September 2006  which may explain why this was the 
case. But, if Mr H believes that he shouldve received a lower rate of interest on specific 
loans that he took out, then hell need to raise this with Lloyds separately.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Premier Plus account was mis-
sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman