DRN-3282182
The complaint
Ts complaint is that Ebury Partners UK Limited closed its accounts without warning and will 
not refund the $4,000 account opening fee.    
What happened
Ebury made the decision to exit Ts accounts due to an internal change in its policies 
relating to risk. T says it was not aware of this decision until after their accounts had been 
closed, and this led to payments that could not be sent or received, as well as other losses 
and general inconvenience to the business. Ebury says it gave the required notice which is 
outlined in the terms and conditions of the account. 
T is also unhappy that Ebury will not refund the $4,000 payment which it says was a lifetime 
fee for the account. Ebury has said it will not refund the payment as it was a fee for the 
handling of the accounts. As the account was opened on 6 November 2019 and was 
officially closed on 15 November 2020, it was open for over a year. So, they did not agree to 
refund the $4,000 fee.
The complaint was referred to our service. The investigator agreed that the account had 
been closed in line with the terms and conditions of the account, which stated the account 
could be closed with five days of notice. However, Ebury gave two months notice in their 
closure letter, which was much more than the minimum requirement. They also found that 
the terms and conditions stated Ebury would not be liable for any losses, which included 
account fees, if they were prevented from fulfilling their obligations under the agreement. So, 
they didnt agree that Ebury should refund the $4,000.
T disagreed with this outcome. It reiterated that Ebury had not provided notice prior to 
closing the account. And that it would only accept a refund of the $4,000 account opening 
fee, which it felt should be refunded as the account had not been open for a year when 
Ebury closed it.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Ebury has acted reasonably in the circumstances and I dont think it 
needs to take any action to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ill firstly focus on the account closures. T feels the accounts were closed following an 
attempted payment on 19 October 2020, which Ebury would not process due to a change in 
its risk appetite. Ebury has said it first sent notice of closure on 15 September 2020 and 
gave appropriate notice. 
Ebury said in its final response letter that official notice for the closure of Ts account was 
given on 15 September 2020. It has provided me with evidence that it sent an e-mail to T on 
15 September titled important notice regarding your Ebury account(s). It has then provided 
me with the body of a letter explaining that it has reviewed its long-term client strategy and 
has decided to end its Relationship Agreements with T. It confirmed it would close Ts 
accounts on 15 November 2020, therefore giving two months notice. It also explained that 
during that period, it may decline to process transactions without further notice. 
Based on the content of the letter and the dates within it, I think its more likely this is the 
letter that was sent on 15 September 2020 to Ts e-mail address. And I note that the data 
Ebury has provided shows the e-mail had been opened at some point, most likely by the 
recipient. Ive also considered the communications I have received between Ebury and T. 
On 25 October, an employee from Ebury confirms that T should have received a letter from 
Ebury explaining that it has made the decision to exit their account. It then sent a further 
letter of closure on 12 November dated 21 October, which T has confirmed it received. This 
again confirms Ebury has made the decision to close Ts accounts and gives two months 
notice.
On balance, I think its more likely Ebury did provide notice on 15 September that the 
account would be closed. I think this gave two months notice clearly and explained that 
some payments would not be processed during that time. I appreciate T feels the account 
was closed prior to notice being given, as it was unable to process or receive payments in 
October. But I think the payments had been suspended as per the notice of closure letter 
sent in September, and this isnt therefore as a result of the account itself being closed.
Ive then considered if Ebury was entitled to close Ts accounts. The terms and conditions of 
the account state: either party may terminate this Agreement at any time without reason by 
giving at least five (5) Business Days' prior written notice to the other. In Eburys final 
response letter, it has also referenced the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and 
Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 ("MLR") and said these 
regulations alongside a number of other elements (including business and commercial 
factors) form the basis of our review procedures and also drive the decision making process 
as it relates to our client base.
Considering that Ebury gave T two months notice, I think it has complied with the account 
closure process as set out in the terms and conditions. This far exceeds the minimum 
requirement of 5 days. Ebury has said the account review was also prompted by a shift in 
internal policy due to its partnership with a third-party bank well call S. It has explained that 
its appetite to risk had been amended to be more in line with S policies, which formed part 
of the decision to exit Ts account. Which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, I think that following a review of Ts accounts, Ebury made the decision to close them 
and, in line with the terms and conditions, gave appropriate notice of the closure.  
Ive gone on to consider the $4,000 fee T paid when it opened the accounts. T has described 
this as a lifetime account fee. Whereas Ebury has said this would have been an annual fee 
that would have been negotiated between T and their foreign exchange dealer. Neither party 
has provided much evidence about this fee and what it was for, apart from the SWIFT 
instruction from when it was paid. So, it isnt clear if it is a one-off fee for setting up the 
accounts or an annual one. And this fee is not specifically mentioned in the terms and 
conditions of the accounts either.
Whether the fee was for the life of the accounts or was due to be paid annually, T has likely had the benefit of the service that the fee was for. According to Ebury, the accounts were 
officially opened on 6 November 2019 and according to the closure letter, were due to close 
on 15 November 2020. I appreciate that T may not have had full use of the accounts from 15 
September 2020 onwards, but I dont think it would be fair to ask Ebury to refund an annual 
fee when T has had the benefit of the accounts for the majority of that time. And similarly, if it 
was a lifetime fee, it is unfortunate that in this case the lifetime of the account was only 12 
months, but that is the risk that is taken when a one-off flat fee is paid at the inception of an 
account. 
In any event, the terms and conditions of the account state that Ebury wont be liable for any 
losses, including fees, if they are prevented by applicable laws from fulfilling their obligations 
under the agreement. Applicable laws include regulations, such as the MLR mentioned 
above, which Ebury has cited as one of the contributing factors for the account closures. So, 
in these circumstances, I think its also fair that Ebury hasnt refunded the fee here, where the 
terms explain it wont be liable for losses and fees in situation like this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Ts complaint against Ebury Partners UK Limited.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman