DRN-1621455
The complaint
Mrs Gs representative has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G made a claim under her home emergency policy in January 2018. At the time she was 
advised that she required a powerflush in order for the policy to continue. She got Avivas 
representative to complete the powerflush, which wasnt part of the policy. But when Mrs G 
made a further claim in July 2019 Aviva turned down her claim. It said that it wasnt able to 
find the required part through its authorised agents as the part was obsolete and hadnt been 
made for a few years.
As Mrs G wasnt happy about this she complained to Aviva and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for her and partly upheld the complaint. He accepted that 
Aviva had acted fairly and in line with the policy in turning down the claim and treating her 
boiler as if it was beyond economical repair (BER) and offering £200 towards the repair or a 
replacement boiler. But he thought that the cost of the powerflush should be refunded. This 
was because Mrs G had provided evidence from her own engineer that suggested the 
powerflush wasnt performed correctly.
Aviva didnt agree. It said it wasnt responsible for the powerflush, as that was a private 
arrangement between Mrs G and the provider of the powerflush. And as this wasnt part of 
the contract it shouldnt be held responsible. So, the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. Ive looked at whether Aviva acted fairly in declining the claim and I think it did. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G and her representative. But I do agree that 
Mrs G should be refunded the cost of the powerflush, Ill explain why. 
I know Mrs Gs representative feels that he could get the part through other means. But I 
wouldnt expect Aviva to try and get parts outside of its normal network. Plus, I accept that 
there could be risks in relation to the quality of the parts when purchased outside of its 
reputable network. And as the particular part that was required had stopped being made a 
few years before I cant say Aviva has acted unreasonably here. 
Turning to the issue of the powerflush I can understand Avivas position. It has accepted that 
there is a stipulation in the policy that a powerflush was compulsory under the terms if the 
consumer wanted to continue with the policy. But it highlights that it was Mrs Gs decision 
and she wasnt obliged to complete the procedure through its engineers.
However, it is debatable whether the powerflush was completed to a sufficient standard. I 
have looked at the photos of the piping and statement provided by Mrs Gs engineer which 
clearly places doubt on the quality and effectiveness of the powerflush. And, importantly, I 
havent been provided with any evidence to say that Mrs G was given clear advice about her 
position and the possibility that the powerflush may not be successful. And that there were 
likely to be problems with Mrs Gs boiler given its age. 
I say this as Mrs Gs boiler was nearly 20 years old at that time and had Mrs G been clearly 
advised about this she may have chosen to replace her boiler at that stage, especially as the 
cost of the powerflush was significant. And I wouldve expected Mrs G to have been advised 
about the chances of the powerflush being unsuccessful or limited because of the age of the 
boiler and the system generally.   
Given all of this and the fact that Mrs G had to have the powerflush to carry on with the 
policy. I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
is for Aviva to refund the cost of the powerflush. And even if the powerflush was undertaken 
by another company I think this would still be the fair thing to do. I say this as I think Aviva 
shouldve advised Mrs G that her boiler was most likely coming to the end of its economical 
life. And about the possible limitations of a powerflush so that Mrs G couldve made an 
informed choice about this and whether she should have the powerflush; whether she should 
get a new boiler; or whether she wanted to continue with the policy. 
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think this complaint should be partly upheld. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to refund Mrs G the cost of the powerflush plus 8% simple 
interest from the time of payment until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman