DRN-3024912
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
  Mr J had a Barclaycard since 2011. There were a number of limit increases as follows:
Date Limit
September 2011 £3000
February 2012 £5000
September 2012 £7400
April 2013 £9400
October 2015 £13400
In April 2017, Barclaycard sent Mr J a Notice of Default with the balance £13143.96 debit. In 
December 2017, the debt was defaulted and sold to a debt collection agency (DCA). 
Mr J complains that he shouldnt have been given the increases in limits. Barclaycard 
couldnt have done the necessary checks. In September 2020, he had a letter from 
Barclaycard which said theyd made a mistake in increasing some customers limits  and 
paid him a refund of interest and fees of £83.88. They also offered compensation of £75.  
which Mr J hasnt accepted. He now cant get credit because of the default on his records.
Barclaycard said they could only look at the last increase in limit (to £13400 in October 2015) 
because they could only look at events within the last six years. But looking at that increase, 
theyd lent responsibly. Mr J passed their credit checks, including their internal data and 
information from credit reference agencies. This gave them a picture of Mr Js affordability, 
income, credit commitments, housing costs and disposable income.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard didnt act fairly when 
increasing Mr Js limit to £13400 in October 2015. Barclaycard told her that Mr J had passed 
their checks, but she could see that their data showed that Mr J was rated amber at the 
time of the increase  which said it was only potentially affordable. He had other debts of 
£29185, plus a mortgage of £85232. She could see from Mr Js credit report that he had five 
unsecured loan facilities. She looked at Mr Js bank statements  this showed his income of 
£1255 a month  so things were tight when his credit commitments were considered. She 
said Barclaycard should refund interest and fees on borrowing over £9400 since October 
2015, (and add 8% per annum simple in the event of any overpayment), remove default 
markers from Mr Js credit file and buy back the debt from the DCA. Also, they should pay 
compensation of £100.
Mr J didnt agree. He said Barclaycard should write off 50% of the debt. And - £100 wasnt 
enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The Financial Ombudsman service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules 
covering complaints, known as DISP rules (DISP 2.8.2). They state that we cant consider a 
complaint if its referred to us more than six years after the event complained about, or if 
later, three years from the point from which the complainant ought reasonably to have been 
aware they had cause to complain. And as Mr J complained to Barclaycard in November 
2020  we can only consider the last increase in limit to £13400  in October 2015. 
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made. In the case of Mr J  I consider a limit of £13400 for a personal 
customer to be substantial, and so Barclaycards checks shouldve reflected that.
Barclaycard wrote to some customers, including Mr J, in September 2020 to say that in 
some cases, their checks hadnt been appropriate. But  they told us that they took a 
blanket approach, and just because Mr J got a letter and a refund of £83.88  it didnt mean 
that theyd lent to him irresponsibly. Barclaycard told us that Mr J passed their checks at the 
time. I can see that  but that doesnt mean that they lent responsibly, especially for a limit of 
£13400. I can see that in Barclaycards analysis, Mr J was rated amber - potentially 
affordable  rather than green. So  this flagged that more checks shouldve been done. 
We asked Barclaycard if theyd checked Mr Js income  and they told us that was 
considered as part of their CRA data. But Im not sure that was enough in this case. I can 
see that Barclaycards data also shows that Mr J had other debts of £29185 at the time  this 
was high. And looking at Mr Js credit report, he did have several other credit agreements 
running  albeit they were largely paid up to date. But there were also two loan agreements 
running with a debt management company  which implied that he was in difficulties.Equally, on the other side of the coin, I can see that Mr J was making the minimum 
payments to his Barclaycard account in the six months before the increase  and indeed, 
paid off the account completely in May 2015  before drawing on the limit again later. Mr J 
told us that this was because he sold his house to repay Barclaycard  but Barclaycard 
werent to know this.  And  when Barclaycard offered him the increase, Mr J couldve opted 
out of it, but he didnt. So  I must take this into account when reaching a final decision.
But, in the circumstances of this case, I think Barclaycard shouldve completed more checks 
to ensure they were lending up to £13400 responsibly. 
And so  Mr J must be put back in the position he was in before the limit was increased. He 
says he believes that Barclaycard should write off 50% of the debt. This isnt something this 
service would normally agree to  as he has had the use of the money lent to him. But 
Barclaycard should: refund interest and fees on the borrowing over £13400 from October 
2015, and if a credit balance results, pay 8% per annum simple from the date of 
overpayment (Barclaycard have told us the refund will be £809.77  so this wont apply). 
They should also remove any adverse data from Mr Js credit file since October 2015; and 
buy back the debt from the DCA. And agree a mutually satisfactory repayment programme 
with Mr J. Ive considered the matter of compensation. Mr J says it should be more that 
£100. But  on balance, I think this is in line with what this service would expect to see for 
what happened. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Refund all interest, fees and charges for borrowing above the limit of £9,400 from 21 
October 2015 - and pay this towards the outstanding debt. If overpayment has been 
made, this should be refunded with 8% simple interest.
Remove adverse entries on Mr Js credit file from October 2015
Buy back the debt from the DCA and agree a mutually satisfactory repayment 
schedule with Mr J for the remaining balances
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman