DRN-3742846
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service received from Chubb European Group SE when making 
enquiries about his personal accident policy.
What happened
Mr N had the benefit of a personal accident policy. He says he wrote to Chubb at the end of 
November 2019 and, again, in the middle of January 2020 - asking for some advice about 
the policy. He says he didnt receive a reply to the first letter and Chubb didnt provide 
adequate assistance in response to his second letter. 
Chubb says it called him in response to the letter dated January 2020 because its 
representative wasnt able to read his handwriting. It says it offered to send Mr N a claim 
form, but he already had this. It said it couldnt provide any assurances regarding the 
success of any claim. It could only assess the claim once the claim form had been 
completed and considered by Chubb. 
Mr N is unhappy with the way his enquires were handled by Chubb. Our investigator looked 
into what happened and didnt think Chubb had done anything wrong. Mr N disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. Chubb has an obligation to treat customers 
fairly. And I think it did so here. Ill explain why.
- Even if the November 2019 had been sent to Chubb - and it had received this before 
receiving a copy of that letter enclosed with Mr Ns January 2020 letter - I dont think 
its clear from the contents what Mr N was seeking Chubbs opinion and advice on. 
- Further, Mr N had a claim form to complete. So, there wasnt anything preventing him 
from making a claim to be assessed by Chubb.
- There were parts of Mr Ns January 2020 letter that Chubbs representative couldnt 
read. However, Im persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that Mr N was called to 
clarify the contents of the letter and that call took place promptly after Chubb 
received the January 2020 letter.
- I can understand why Mr N sought advice from Chubb regarding his claim and how to 
proceed. And Im persuaded from what Ive seen that he was informed that the policy 
only provided cover for accidents  which from looking at the policy terms was 
correct. 
- I also think Chubb acted fairly and reasonably by telling him that it wasnt able to 
advise Mr N about whether a claim would be successful under the policy at that stage 
 based on the circumstances he described. And that the appropriate course of 
action was for him to complete, and return, the claim form to Chubbs claims 
department so that the claim could be assessed in accordance with the policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman