DRN-3497258
The complaint
Mr R complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly declined his claim 
after he was unable to work. 
What happened
In early 2020, Mr R took out a type of income protection policy underwritten by LV. The 
policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event Mr R is too unwell to carry out the main tasks 
of his occupation, due to illness or an accident. And there is no deferred period, meaning 
that policy can start paying out straightaway in the event of a valid claim. 
Mr R works as a machinery operative. And in early September 2020, he was certified unfit 
for work by a doctor due to acute gastritis and was prescribed medication. Mr R said he 
remained off work for two weeks under the advice of the doctor. And he made a claim 
against his policy.  
LV requested Mr Rs medical records to assess the claim. It contacted the NHS surgery he 
was registered with, and the private surgery Mr R had attended when he was unwell. 
The response from the NHS surgery was that Mr R had been registered for several years, 
but had not consulted with a doctor there in September 2020.  The private surgery confirmed 
Mr R had been assessed for a stomach related condition in September 2020, and answered 
LVs medical questionnaire.  
LV declined the claim. It said there was insufficient medical evidence to support Mr Rs 
absence from work in September 2020.  
Mr R complained to LV. He said he had followed medical advice to remain off work for two 
weeks. He said he would not have been allowed to work during that time due to the nature of 
his role and the chance of an accident happening when he was unfit for work. 
LV said it had reviewed the claim again, but thought it had been correct to decline it. It said 
there was insufficient medical evidence to show Mr R had been prevented from carrying out 
the main tasks of his occupation due to his illness. 
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened and said they thought LV hadnt acted fairly when it declined 
Mr Rs claim. And she thought LV should reconsider it. 
Mr R made no further comments on the investigators view. However LV disagreed. In 
summary it said: 
the medical evidence related the vomiting to drinking alcohol, which Mr R would not 
be doing whilst working, so it thought this symptom was of no relevance;
it disagreed with the investigators opinion that Mr R would have been unable to work 
due to the side effects of the prescribed medication and said the assessment on 
incapacity should be based on his symptoms;
the medication Mr R was prescribed is available without prescription and works 
quickly, so would have addressed the symptoms within days; 
the medical evidence stated Mr R had been experiencing symptoms for around four 
months before seeing Dr W, and it said Mr R had been working during that time; and
Dr W had not seen Mr R previously, didnt have access to his medical history and 
didnt undertake any tests. And the recommendation of a referral for an endoscopy 
would be against NICE guidelines in relation to what it thought were minor 
symptoms. 
As LV disagreed with the investigators view, the case was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, and in summary I said: 
My assessment was not based on whether Mr R was unwell, but rather I looked at 
whether I thought the medical evidence supported that he met the terms of his policy 
in relation to the personal sick pay benefit. 
The relevant policy term is as follows. 
How unwell do I have to be to get paid my Personal Sick Pay? 
Quite simply, well pay you if youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of 
your occupation, and you arent doing any other paid or unpaid work (unpaid 
work means work you dont get paid for, like voluntary work). By main tasks 
we mean the things which cant reasonably be left out of your role, or 
changed by you or your employer. It doesnt matter what the illness or 
accident is, if it stops you from working, well pay you your insurance
I also considered the medical questionnaire completed by Dr W. 
Having considered the available evidence, I didnt think LV had acted unfairly in 
turning down Mr Rs claim. And I went on to explain why. 
LV made reference to Mr R having not consulted the NHS GP surgery he is 
registered with, in relation to his period of illness in September 2020. However I didnt 
think Mr Rs choice to consult with a private doctor should make any difference to the 
assessment of his claim. 
In response to the investigators view, LV raised some concerns about the accuracy 
of Dr Ws assessment of Mr R and the actions she suggested. Dr W assessed Mr R 
at the time he presented with symptoms, so I thought it fair to rely on the information 
she provided in the medical questionnaire. 
Dr W stated Mr Rs symptoms prevented him from working, but gave no further detail 
on the reasons for this statement.  LV said it doesnt think the symptoms of vomiting 
referred to in the medical reports are relevant, as this was stated as occurring only 
after Mr R drank alcohol. Considering the nature of Mr Rs job, I thought it was fair for 
LV to say this wasnt a symptom which would impact Mr R while at work. 
Turning to the symptoms of epigastric pain, I considered how this would most likely 
impact Mr R at work. The report from Dr W refers to the pain as dull or burning, and says the symptoms increased to occurring after all meals, during the two weeks Mr R 
was unable to work. However there was nothing Id seen which explains how long the 
pain lasted after Mr R ate a meal. And I thought it most likely that Mr R would eat one 
meal during a shift at work. 
Although Dr W said the symptoms increased during the two weeks, I noted she saw 
Mr R on 1 September 2020 and there was no follow-up prior to Mr R returning to 
work on 16 September. 
In view of the above,  I wasnt persuaded that the pain after eating would be long 
lasting enough to prevent Mr R from being able to carry out the main tasks of his 
occupation, or that the pain continued at the same level for the duration of the two 
weeks he was away from work. So I didnt think it was unfair for LV to conclude that 
the medical evidence was insufficient to support the claim being paid.  
Mr R said he remained off work for two weeks due to advice from Dr W, and wouldnt 
have been allowed to work by his employer while certified unfit. Whilst I appreciated 
Mr Rs point, thats not the test I needed to apply here. Although he was signed off 
work by a doctor throughout the two weeks period, I wasnt satisfied this 
demonstrated he met the policy terms, as a doctor would not be applying the same 
threshold criteria as set out in the policy. I needed to consider whether Mr R was 
unable to carry out the main tasks of his role due to illness or an accident, in line with 
the policy terms. And the medical evidence hadnt sufficiently persuaded me that was 
the case.  
Whilst I didnt agree with all of the elements of LVs assessment, including some of 
the dates referenced in the final response, I didnt think its overall decision to turn 
down the claim was unfair. And thats because I didnt think Mr R supplied sufficient 
medical evidence to show that he met the policy terms for his personal sick pay 
claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive considered again my provisional findings. 
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision. And LV responded confirming it had no 
comments. 
As no further points have been raised, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out 
in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman