DRN-4080308
The complaint
Mrs K complains AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt handle a motor insurance claim fairly.
References to AXA include its agents. References to Mrs K include her husband. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known, so I wont repeat them here. Instead, I will focus 
on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K was in a car accident. She made a claim on her motor insurance policy with AXA. 
AXA accepts it delayed the claim initially by not recording it properly, and then by not 
collecting the car for repair. It also accepts it made mistakes in the provision of a courtesy 
car. To put things right it has agreed to do the following:
- Waive the excess, thereby saving Mrs K £850;
- Pay Mrs K £300 compensation;
- Pay Mrs K £140 in recognition of not providing her with a courtesy car; and 
- Pay Mrs K £90 (plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement) for her costs in recovering the car, subject to receipts. 
Mrs K doesnt consider this appropriate redress. She says AXAs mistakes, and the impact 
these had on the provision of a courtesy car, meant she lost her job. She wants AXA to pay 
her for lost wages, which she puts at about £3,700. Like the Investigator, Im not persuaded I 
can fairly and reasonably require AXA to pay Mrs Ks alleged lost wages. Ill explain why.
Mrs K says she lost her job due to not having access to transport. She has provided 
evidence to show her employment did come to an end following the accident. However, 
there is no evidence from her employer to say Mrs Ks employment ended solely because 
she couldnt make it physically into the office for a time, or that alternatives were explored. 
And while I accept Mrs K was entitled to a courtesy car, and should have received one, there 
was a need for her to mitigate her losses. Mrs K has specific transport needs. But I find there 
were options available to her. She could, for example, have rented a car. Or perhaps used 
her husbands car. Im not persuaded, on the evidence and arguments available, I can fairly 
say AXAs actions  or lack of actions  solely and directly led to Mrs K losing her job.
AXA has accepted it let Mrs K down. The Investigator agreed. And so do I. Fair 
compensation is therefore appropriate. And Im satisfied what AXA has agreed to is fair 
compensation. I say this because it covers Mrs K direct financial loss (the recovery of the 
car), recognises the lack of provision of a courtesy car, and (when combined with the 
waiving of the excess) provides £1,150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she 
was caused, including minor costs such as call costs. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do as it has agreed, as set out 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman