DRN-3774525
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) registered a 
fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database. He doesnt think its treated him fairly.
What happened
Mr W held an account with Virgin Money which was opened in August 2021. 
On 28 September 2021 a payment intended for Mr Ws account was identified as fraudulent 
- the bank where the funds were coming from told Virgin Money that their customer had 
been the victim of a scam. Virgin Money blocked Mr Ws account and following a review 
closed it. 
Mr W later discovered Virgin Money had also placed a misuse of facility marker against him 
with CIFAS which was preventing him from opening an account. He contacted Virgin Money 
to complain, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had considered the 
impact carefully before taken the steps it had and declined to remove the loading. Unhappy 
with this, Mr W referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. She asked Mr W for some background 
information. In summary Mr W said: a friend of his had approached him to see if he wanted 
to make money from investing in crypto currency. He put him in touch with an acquaintance 
who I shall call J. J said hed arrange to send money to Mr Ws account which hed then 
need to invest in buying crypto currency. For this purpose, Mr W also had a crypto currency 
wallet to send money onto. Mr W added that as part of the arrangement, both he and J 
would make money from gains in the investment. 
Mr W didnt think Virgin Money had treated him fairly. He said, the reason noted for his 
account being closed suddenly without warning was because there had been suspicious 
activity, which was unexplained. But Virgin Money hadnt contacted him so he could explain 
what had happened. Had it done so, he said he would have been able to explain he was 
unaware that the funds being transferred and paid to him were stolen. 
Having considered the information, the adjudicator concluded that there was enough 
evidence to suggest Mr W knew that what he was doing wasnt completely legitimate. 
Because when asked about whether there was an incentive to complete the crypto currency 
activity, he had said yes (as the purpose wouldve been for him and J to make money). The 
adjudicator said the available evidence suggested to her that it was more likely than not that 
Mr W was or wouldve been complicit in receiving fraudulent payments into his account, 
which was a misuse of facility and when considered with other activity this justified the 
loading with CIFAS. 
Mr W didnt agree  he asked that his case be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. In 
doing so, he said he accepted he had made some poor decisions because he needed 
money but he had no knowledge the money hed be receiving and investing was from a 
fraud or scam. He didnt think the adjudicator had done enough to establish he had full 
knowledge of the situation that Virgin Money could confidently report the matter to the 
Police. He questioned why Virgin Money didnt report the matter to the police if this was the 
case. 
He accepted the decision to close his account was reasonable but not in relation to the 
loading of the marker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Virgin Money has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr W is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and] 
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ws account, whether they are retained or pass through the account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr W was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. To meet the standard of 
proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out checks of sufficient depth 
and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account holder the 
opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand their level of 
knowledge and intention.
Virgin Money received a report from the third-party bank that a payment intended for Mr Ws 
account was from a fraud. And while Virgin Money dont appear to have asked Mr W for 
more information about what he knew, this isnt the end of the matter. As there are further 
considerations. In order to determine Mr Ws complaint, I need to consider whether I think 
having regard for what we know theres enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered 
the account (or were intended to) and that Mr Ws actions suggest he was complicit in this. 
And having considered everything, I dont think Virgin Money have treated Mr W unfairly in 
recording the fraud marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
The funds in question, which were intended to enter Mr Ws account did so because of 
fraudulent activity. I have seen the report dated September 2021 from the sending bank 
about the payment. Mr W says he wasnt aware of a fraud at the time and genuinely believed 
this to be an investment opportunity. I thought very carefully about this and requested 
information from Mr W to support what he understood to be the case at the relevant time.  
But despite a number of attempts to contact him before the deadline to reply, hes not 
responded. This means I dont have any corroborating evidence to demonstrate why he genuinely believed the arrangement to be legitimate.  Thinking about this and crucially the 
fact that Mr W doesnt appear to have questioned why hed be getting a financial incentive 
for using money that wasnt his and why J would need to use his account instead of his own, 
doesnt in my opinion make what Mr W says very plausible. 
Im afraid that the available evidence together with Mr W being unable to provide anything at 
all to corroborate his version of events means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an 
unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was aware of an 
attempt to credit his account with funds that werent legitimate.
Of course, Virgin Money should have asked further questions as per CIFASs guidance to its 
members. But as set out above, Im satisfied from looking at the evidence Virgin Money 
hasnt treated Mr W unfairly in recording it.   Finally, Mr W asks why Virgin Money didnt 
report the matter to the police if they were confident hed committed a financial crime 
however I must explain that the guidance says that the member could report when 
referencing the standard of proof rather than it must or should.  
It follows that I dont think Virgin Money has treated Mr W unfairly and so I wont be asking it 
to remove the marker.
For completeness, Im also satisfied Virgin Money closed Mr Ws account in line with its 
terms and conditions given the account activity. So, I find it made no mistake here either.
I recognise that Mr W feels strongly about his complaint and hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But I hope that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman