DRN-1706668
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his account without notice and 
recorded a CIFAS marker against his name. CIFAS is one of the UK's fraud alert services.
What happened
Mr J opened an account with Nationwide on 17 October 2018. On 1 November, his account 
was credited with £5,060. Within a short space of time, the credit had been withdrawn. There 
were two ATM cash withdrawals and several point of sale transactions.
Nationwide received notice from a third party bank that the money had been taken 
fraudulently from its customers account. Nationwide investigated and concluded that Mr J 
had knowingly received a fraudulent credit and benefitted from it. It closed Mr Js account 
and recorded a CIFAS marker against his name.
Mr J had difficulty trying to open an account elsewhere, so he complained to Nationwide. But 
it wouldnt remove the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Nationwide had acted in line with its terms and conditions in closing the account. And she 
thought the CIFAS marker had been filed correctly because Mr J  was most likely aware of 
the activity on his account.
Mr J didn't agree and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The money credited to Mr Js account was a fraudulent transaction  the money had been 
fraudulently debited from a third partys account. And the credit was withdrawn in a series of 
transactions shortly after the credit was applied to the account in a pattern typical of that of a 
fraudster. But before placing the CIFAS marker against Mr Js name, Nationwide needed to 
have a reasonable belief that criminal charges could be brought against Mr J as a result of 
the activity. A suspicion or concern isnt enough. So I need to decide if theres enough 
evidence to show that Mr J knew more about this than he's told us.
There are some inconsistencies and confusion in what Mr J has told us and what he told 
Nationwide. I've considered what Mr J said carefully and have taken into account that he 
was young when this happened. But, after careful consideration, I think Mr J knew more 
about the transactions than hes told us. I say that for the following reasons:The loss of his card
Mr J didn't report his card as lost. He says this is because he didn't realise it was missing. 
But he also told us he lost it and then found it again. So it's not clear what happened. He told 
us he kept the card in drawer in his bedroom, and he's not explained how he thinks it went 
missing from there. Taking into account all the circumstances, I think it's more likely that Mr 
J's card wasn't taken from the drawer without his knowledge.
Who carried out the transactions?
Mr J told us he knew nothing about the fraudulent credit and that he didn't make or authorise 
the ATM withdrawals and the point of sale transactions. I don't think he carried out the 
transactions himself. I say this because there were two payments to a pawnbroker and any 
such transactions require a contract with an individual of at least 18 years old. Mr J was 
younger than that.
But I do think he authorised someone else to use his card. He said that some people he 
knew made the transactions. So I think it's most likely that Mr J gave them his card and PIN.
Closure of the account
Following its investigation, Nationwide decided to close Mr J's bank account. I find it did this 
in line with its terms and conditions.
Recording a CIFAS marker
The pattern of transactions is typical of an account holder allowing their account to be 
used by a third party for them to launder money through it  a term more commonly known 
as a money mule. If there was some evidence that Mr J had been coerced or threatened 
into allowing a third party to use his account in this way, I would expect Nationwide to show  
some sympathy for him and, depending on the circumstances, it may not be appropriate to 
record a fraud marker. But Mr J maintains he knows nothing about the transactions and Ive 
not seen anything to suggest he was forced into allowing someone to carry out 
these transactions  I would have expected him to tell his parents and to report it to the 
police if this was the case. Although he told Nationwide he reported it to the police, he  
wasn't able to provide a crime reference number.
Taking all of this together, this all points to Mr J knowing more about the transactions than 
hes told us. And I think Nationwide does have enough evidence to report this matter to the 
police.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account that Mr J was young when these 
transactions happened and that he was unlikely to realise the serious implications. Ive 
considered that his immaturity and naivety will have had an impact on his actions. Ive also 
considered the impact the CIFAS marker has had on him  and will continue to have on him 
 just as he is starting out in life. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall conclusion. 
Ive found that the CIFAS marker is factually correct, so I cant ask Nationwide to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman