DRN-3892319
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lendable Ltd have unfairly refused to write off a £20,000 loan that he 
says was applied for fraudulently by a third party. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here.
In March 2022 Mr H was in contact with a merchant about investing in cryptocurrency. And 
he provided access to his computer via remote access to this merchant. A loan was 
completed in Mr Hs name with Lendable with the application stating this was for home 
improvements. At the end of March 2022 Mr H contacted Lendable to raise a fraud claim. 
Lendable considered the claim but decided that Mr H should be held liable for the loan. It 
said it assessed the application fairly and received a copy of Mr Hs identification and a video 
selfie during the application on its online verification system. It also sent an e-mail to Mr H to 
confirm the application had been approved. So, it said Mr H was liable for the repayments on 
the loan. Lendable said that it would freeze interest on the loan and it offered to waive the 
loan fee and any interest accrued on the loan as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He said that Mr H was 
aware of the loan and it was received into his bank account. So, he said Lendable hadnt 
treated Mr H unfairly by asking him to repay the £20,000 loan. And that Lendable had fairly 
agreed to waive the interest on the loan. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that he was the victim 
of a scam but said Lendable are treating him like a criminal. And that his bank had refunded 
50% of the money that was taken out with two loan companies (including Lendable). He said 
Lendable shouldve completed more checks on the application before agreeing to the 
lending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.  
I appreciate that Mr H was asked to download remote access software by the scammers, 
which enabled them to apply for the loan. However, it seems most likely that Mr H was 
aware of the finance being applied for in his name. All of his details had been entered into 
the loan application, including details of his bank account that it was to be paid into. He also 
provided a copy of his identification and spoke to it on the phone before the loan was 
approved to satisfy Lendables identification checks. So, Im satisfied that he was aware and 
had likely authorised the third-party scammers to apply for the loan on his behalf, albeit 
under the impression that this was to go towards his cryptocurrency investment.
The loan was duly paid into Mr Hs bank account, where it was subsequently transferred to 
the scammers. Therefore, Im satisfied he took receipt of the funds, which were applied for 
on his behalf by an authorised third party, and had the benefit of them. As a result, Im 
satisfied he can fairly and reasonably be held liable for repayment of the loan. 
In terms of whether Lendable undertook checks that were reasonable and proportionate, I 
can see that they considered aspects such as credit worthiness and affordability, as well as 
completing identity and bank account checks. Overall, Im satisfied Lendable fairly decided 
this was affordable and Ive seen nothing that would have given Lendable any cause for 
concerns that the loan would not have been affordable (such as defaults or a large amount 
of other debt). So, Im satisfied the checks they carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances.
I also dont think there were any circumstances presented that ought to have led Lendable to 
believe that the loan was being applied for because of a scam. The details entered into the 
loan application appear to be accurate, it spoke to him to confirm the reasons why he 
wanted the loan, and the loan proceeds were paid into an account in Mr Hs name. So, Im 
not persuaded there were any reasons for Lendable to suspect that he was at risk of 
financial harm, such that they should have carried out further checks. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman