DRN-3369100
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was provided at a time when his outgoings far exceeded his income.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr A with a loan for £3,100.00 in February 2018. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £145. One of our adjudicators reviewed        
Mr As complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr A with this loan. 
So she thought that Mr As complaint should be upheld. Avant Credit didnt respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr A could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, Avant Credit hasnt 
provided anything at all about the checks it carried out before it provided Mr A with this loan. 
I find Avant Credits lack of a response and its apparent disregard of its DISP 1 obligations to 
be extremely disappointing. Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information Mr A has provided 
about his circumstances at the time in an attempt to decide what I think reasonable and 
proportionate checks are more likely than not to have shown Avant Credit. 
I think reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have involved finding out about    
Mr As income and, at least some of, his expenditure. The information Mr A has provided 
suggested that he was in a cycle of payday and other high-cost lending. Indeed, Avant 
Credits own credit check appears to show a number of overdue outstanding balances on 
this type of lending.
So Im persuaded by what Mr A has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible he could been taking (and then not repaying) these loans 
through choice rather than because he was struggling, in the absence of any reasonable or 
plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr As version of 
events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr As existing debts meant that he was unlikely to be able 
to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as 
reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about Mr As 
income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown Avant 
Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr A. As Avant Credit provided Mr A with 
this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr A lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr A by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr A to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman