DRN-3185819
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how QIC Europe Ltd valued her claim on her home insurance policy
and about its service during the claim.
What happened
Mrs N had items stolen from her garage. When she notified QIC, Mrs N asked what the
claim limit was for the stolen items. She was told it was £75,000. She went ahead with the
claim.
Over the next two months, QICs claims management service asked Mrs N to complete a
large number of tasks via its online portal to progress her claim, each of which she did. And
QIC made Mrs N at least two cash settlement offers in this time. Mrs N says she declined 
these because she says they were factually incorrect.
But then, after around two months, QIC told Mrs N that, because her garage was an
outbuilding, the limit on her theft claim was actually only £1,000, not £75,000.
Mrs N complained to QIC that shed been given incorrect information about the claim limit,
that the limits were in any case unclear and that shed lost income by spending many hours
dealing with QICs requests for information. She said this had caused her a lot of stress,
frustration and inconvenience.
QIC offered Mrs N £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused her by not
giving her the correct policy limit earlier. But it said it wouldnt increase its settlement offer
because the £1,000 policy limit for items stolen from an outbuilding was correct.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs N brought her complaint to us. In addition to the points
shed raised with QIC, Mrs N was also unhappy QIC hadnt paid her costs in getting her
garage repaired following the theft.
In her first assessment of Mrs Ns complaint, our investigator said the policy limit on Mrs Ns
claim was £1,000. But she said QIC should pay Mrs N her costs in getting her garage
repaired (plus 8% per annum simple interest). And she said QIC should pay Mrs N an
additional £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
QIC disagreed with our investigators findings. It said there was only a month between Mrs N
being given her first cash settlement offer (based on the incorrect claim limit) and then being
advised of the correct limit. It said this didnt impact on the claim, since Mrs N didnt withdraw
it. So it said Mrs N wasnt financially prejudiced by what happened and more compensation
wasnt justified. QIC also said the garage repair costs were included in its first settlement
offer and, since Mrs N didnt accept that offer, it shouldnt have to pay interest on these
costs.
In her second assessment of Mrs Ns complaint, our investigator said, having reviewed
everything again, she thought QICs initial offer of £100 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Mrs N had been caused was in line with what our service would award in
these types of circumstances. And she said that, as QIC had also shown Mrs N had declined
a settlement offer that included her garage repair costs, she couldnt reasonably ask it to pay
interest on them. So our investigator said she only required QIC to pay Mrs N the cash
settlement amount it had already offered.
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to look at
her complaint.
In my provisional decision of 28 October 2021, I explained why I intended to uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint in part. Both Mrs N and QIC have given me comments on my provisional decision, 
which has now come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mrs Ns complaint in part. In that decision, I looked at each of Mrs Ns complaint 
points separately and said as follows:
The policy claim limit
As Ive said, the stolen items were taken from Mrs Ns garage, which shes told us is
detached. Mrs Ns home insurance policy says the claim limit for the theft of contents
(including pedal cycles) from a locked outbuilding within the boundaries of Mrs Ns home is
£1,000. The policy says an outbuilding includes a detached garage.
Mrs N has queried if she can claim separately for two bikes that were stolen from the
garage. Thats because Mrs Ns policy also has a separate claim limit of £1,000 for the loss
of pedal cycles in Mrs Ns home or in the open within the boundaries of her property. The
policy says Mrs Ns home is the main building in which she lives, garages which are
attached to or part of the main building and outbuildings within the boundary of the address.
While I can see why Mrs N has raised this query, I think the policy makes it clear the £1,000
limit that applies to contents stolen from an outbuilding specifically includes bikes. So I dont
think Mrs Ns policy allows her to claim for the bikes separately.
The impact on Mrs N of the incorrect information QIC gave her
Theres no doubt Mrs N was given incorrect information about the claim limit by QIC when
she first notified it of the theft. In a transcript shes given us of part of the call, she asked the
call handler what the upper limit of the policy was and he said it was £75,000. Mrs N
specifically asked for confirmation that there wouldnt be any other clauses to limit the cover.
The call handler said bikes were covered up to £1,000 for any one claim or loss  and that
that was the only thing, other than the standard £75,000, that would be different.
Mrs N says being given incorrect information meant she wasnt able to make an informed
choice about whether to go ahead with the claim. And she says shes had a horrible
experience dealing with QIC, that she regularly ended up in tears and dreaded receiving
messages about the claim. Mrs N also says shes lost income because of the time she spent
dealing with QICs various requests.
QIC says, when Mrs N was given the correct information, she didnt withdraw her claim. It
says this means Mrs N wasnt financially prejudiced by what happened, so its offer of £100compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her is fair.
Any insurance claim is going to involve some inconvenience in your day-to-day life. And its
not unusual to experience a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing
with financial businesses. But Mrs N says she got around 70 text messages from QIC. The
correspondence Mrs N had on QICs claims management services portal runs to 16 pages.
And its clear from that correspondence that Mrs N spent significant time on the internet
researching replacement prices for the stolen items. This was all done in the expectation that
her claim would be paid in full.
I think it wouldve been a shock, and deeply disappointing and frustrating, for Mrs N then to
be told her claim limit was only £1,000. And especially so since the situation shed sought to
avoid from the start  being told about claim limits down the line  actually happened.
Had QIC given Mrs N the correct information at the start, she wouldnt have had any of that
shock, disappointment and frustration. And had she decided to go ahead with the claim on
the basis of the £1,000 limit, I think its likely QIC wouldve asked Mrs N to do less in order to
settle it. So I think Mrs N wouldve had to spend far less time negotiating her claim
settlement.
When the mistake about the policy limit first came to light, by way of apology QIC said it
would waive Mrs Ns policy excess of £350  meaning the limit on her claim was £1,000 not
£750. And it subsequently offered Mrs N an additional £100 in compensation for the distress
and inconvenience it had caused her. But I dont think this goes quite far enough to
compensate Mrs N for the impact QICs mistake has had on her, some of which Ive
described above. And so its my current intention to award Mrs N a further £100 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience QIC has caused her. 
Mrs N says shes lost income as a result of all the work she had to do. But, in terms of 
evidencing her loss of income, Mrs N told our investigator this was difficult because 
sometimes she may work 26 hours a week but some weeks its a lot less. So I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to award Mrs N compensation for loss of earnings.
Mrs Ns garage repairs
I understand Mrs N bought a new lock for her garage on the day after the burglary and also
got a quote of £100 for other repairs it needed following the theft. There seems to have been
some confusion previously about whether or not QIC had agreed to meet these costs. QIC
has clarified it will. I think thats fair and reasonable and in line with Mrs Ns policy terms.
QIC has said it doesnt think it should have to pay simple interest of 8% per annum on these
costs because Mrs N didnt accept its first cash settlement offer (which presumably included
an amount for them). But, at the time, Mrs N was negotiating a settlement based on her
claim being paid in full and she was disputing the settlement as a whole. So I dont accept
QICs argument here. I think its fair and reasonable that QIC should pay Mrs N interest on
these costs.
QIC disagrees with my provisional decision. In relation to the impact on Mrs N of the 
incorrect information QIC gave her, it says the text messages I referred to in my provisional 
decision alerted Mrs N to a message on the portal for her to read to expedite the process 
and alert the policyholder to a response. QIC says it isnt fair that I referred to sixteen pages 
of messages in my decision because many of these are errors due to the customer 
repeatedly sending the same message within the space of less than a minute or multiple 
messages sent due to the character limit. QIC says while its unfortunate that the limit was 
not identified at a later point [I think it means an earlier point], these messages have not cost the policyholder and the convenience of an instant messenger system avoids any issues 
with emails or calls.
Mrs N has also given me her thoughts on my provisional findings on this point. She says: I 
would like to add that QICs continual threatening messages to close my case unless I
accepted their offers made the situation much harder. I understand that these messages 
were automatically created by the computer system and I was told to ignore them, but that 
was little comfort. I did even consider accepting an offer just to make it all stopI did try to 
decline offers online which would have stopped the threats, but there was an ambiguous 
yes/no question that I did not know how to answer. I asked for clarification via the portal but 
this was never given. Instead, the portal staff declined the offers on my behalf after I 
received threats of closure.
QICs instant messenger system may be designed to be convenient and avoid any issues 
with emails or calls. But that clearly isnt the experience Mrs N had with it. And I dont agree 
that the messages didnt cost Mrs N, as QIC says. From what Mrs N says, she found them 
both intimidating and worrying and I can understand why.
QIC also says Mrs N clearly wouldve continued with her claim, because she continued 
with it when she was told of the £1,000 limit. It says its validation process is the same, 
irrespective of limits, and it would still have require evidenced to calculate replacement 
values for the stolen items. 
There are all sorts of things that can influence someones decision about whether or not to 
go ahead with a claim. I dont think the fact that Mrs N decided to carry on when she was 
told of the policy limit means she wouldve gone ahead with the claim had she known the 
limit from the very start. At the point when QIC told her of the limit, her claim was at an 
advanced stage and shed already put in a lot of work to validate it, so I can understand why 
she decided to carry on with it. QIC says its validation process was the same regardless of 
the claim limits. But I still think its likely Mrs N wouldve spent substantially less time than 
she did trying to get her own valuations for some of the stolen items had she known from the 
start that the claim limit was £1,000.
So QICs arguments dont change my conclusions about the impact on Mrs N of it giving her 
incorrect information at the start about her policy limit. And I think an award of an additional 
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused her (on top of the £100 
I believe it has already paid her) is fair and reasonable.
In relation to the costs Mrs N incurred in repairing her garage following the theft, QIC says 
its clear from the portal messages that Mrs N refused to accept the settlement QIC offered 
her on several occasions. So it says its being penalised an interest payment when Mrs N 
declined the settlement. It says Mrs N chose not to have the money and therefore it doesnt 
understand why interest is being awarded.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mrs N declined QICs settlement offers because she 
was disputing them. Mrs N has told us recently the offers werent correct. She says the first 
offer only listed three of the five items stolen and the second duplicated one item and missed 
one off. Mrs N says she did also question QICs valuation of some items at this stage. And 
she says there was never any option to accept individual items or to partially accept an offer.
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to direct QIC to pay interest on the 
costs Mrs N incurred in getting her garage repaired.
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt intend to award Mrs N compensation for any 
earnings she lost while dealing with her claim. Mrs N has since given me a lot more information about her working pattern at the time. And she has attempted to quantify how 
much time she spent dealing with the claim. She says her lost earnings are a direct result of 
QICs mistake.
While Mrs N has done her best to estimate how much time she spent pursuing different 
aspects of her claim  and Im grateful to her for the time and trouble shes taken to do this  
I dont think its enough to show me a direct link between lost income and QICs mistake. 
Among other things, Mrs N has told me what her usual hours were at this time but she 
accepts that they werent fixed. And she says that, because of lockdown, she struggled to 
combine work and home schooling her children. Based on the information I have, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to award Mrs N compensation for lost income.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision of 28 October 2021, I uphold     
Mrs Ns complaint in part and direct QIC Europe Ltd:
To pay Mrs N £100 (in addition to the £100 I understand it has already paid her) in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her; and
To pay Mrs N the costs shes incurred in getting her garage repaired (which I believe 
QIC Europe Ltd already has details of) plus 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date she paid for them to the date of payment.
I understand QIC Europe Ltd has already paid Mrs N £1,000 for her claim and £100 as
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. But, for the avoidance of
doubt, if it hasnt paid Mrs N these amounts, I direct that it should.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman