DRN-2937570
The complaint
Mr P complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc opened a basic bank account for him when hed 
applied for a standard bank account. As a result, he didnt receive their advertised switcher 
incentive reward.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr P made on online application to switch his bank account to HSBC. The 
application was made under HSBCs advertised switcher campaign which offered a £75 
cash incentive when an account was opened. But HSBC declined to open one of their 
standard accounts and opened a basic bank account for Mr P. They said that this account 
didnt qualify for the advertised switcher reward.
Mr P later applied for an account with First Direct  part of HSBC UK Bank Plc. This 
application was also declined.
In February 2021, Mr P complained to HSBC. He believed that when he applied, he met all 
the advertised criteria to qualify for HSBCs switcher reward. He wasnt happy that HSBC 
didnt pay the reward to him.
HSBC responded to Mr Ps complaint in March 2021. They explained that his application had 
been declined due to adverse information recorded about him with the credit reference 
agencies. So instead, they offered a basic bank account to him, which he accepted. But the 
basic bank account didnt qualify for their switcher incentive. They said that the correct 
process had been followed and didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong
Mr P thought that hed been discriminated against and said he wasnt applying for an 
overdraft or any credit. He believed that hed met all of HSBCs advertised criteria to qualify 
for the reward.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service in March 2021. He wasnt happy with HSBCs 
response. He provided details and articles in relation to personal banking and the provision 
of bank accounts and suggested that such schemes were the subject of abuse by many 
consumers. He couldnt understand why HSBC werent willing to honour their advertised 
reward.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. She also 
considered all of the additional information that Mr P provided. She didnt think that HSBC 
had acted unreasonably or needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, he asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its relevant to explain the role of this service when considering Mr Ps complaint. This 
service acts as an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) entity approved by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). As an ADR, it isnt our role to comment or make judgments on 
HSBCs processes and policies. Only that theyve been applied fairly and reasonably in Mr 
Ps circumstances.
Mr Ps bank account application was completed online. HSBC have shown us that they 
assessed Mr Ps application based upon the information he provided. This included 
completing a credit search with the credit reference agencies. This is usual practice for a 
bank when assessing an application for a bank account, regardless of whether an overdraft 
or other credit facility is or isnt requested. 
The credit search completed by HSBC revealed adverse credit information recorded against 
Mr Ps name. HSBC have explained that it isnt their policy to accept a bank account 
application where adverse information is revealed as part of the credit search. But they did 
offer him a basic bank account.
A basic bank account is a type of current account intended for people who dont qualify for a 
standard current account. The 2014 EU Payment Account Directive set common regulatory 
standards about the availability of basic bank accounts. It seeks to ensure consumers have 
reasonable access to bank accounts with basic features. This is what HSBC offered to Mr P. 
HSBC confirmed that Mr P was told of this during his online application and that he accepted 
the relevant terms and conditions.
Ordinarily, a basic bank account does not allow a consumer to have an overdraft. This is an 
important feature and ensures that HSBC complies with its obligations as a responsible 
lender. That being said, there are occasions where a basic bank account may go overdrawn 
without prior authorisation. Having looked at statements provided by Mr P, I can see that this 
did happen a couple of times. But Im also aware that HSBC contacted him promptly asking 
him to repay the overdraft. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call between Mr P and HSBC from 3 March 2021. This 
follows HSBCs written response to Mr Ps complaint. HSBC clearly explained the reasons 
for his declined application. They also explained that the basic bank account didnt qualify for 
their switcher incentive. This is confirmed on HSBCs website.
HSBCs decision to decline Mr Ps application for a standard bank account is a business one 
and not one that I can look to overturn. In the same way that any other business has the 
right to decide what products and services they offer, if any, to their chosen customers, 
HSBC also have that choice. 
Mr P said that he believes that HSBC discriminated against his financial situation. 
Discrimination is defined within the Equality Act 2010. The Act clearly defines what is 
considered to be unlawful discrimination. While I sympathise with Mr Ps circumstances, Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that HSBC have shown any unlawful discrimination here. So, I 
disagree with Mr P on this point. This appears to have been a business decision.
Mr P provided significant amounts of information and articles relating to personal banking 
and credit in the UK. While Ive considered his point of view here, I dont believe that much of 
this is relevant to the outcome of his particular complaint.
Mr P has referenced the actions of other banks and also consumers who have benefitted 
from advertised switcher campaigns. In looking at Mr Ps complaint, I can only consider his 
circumstances in isolation and, ultimately, whether HSBC have acted fairly. I realise that Mr 
P will be disappointed, but I agree with our investigator here.  I havent found anything than 
leads me to conclude that HSBC have done anything wrong or acted unreasonably.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman