DRN-2265819
The complaint
Mr J complains Aviva Insurance Limited has settled his motor trader insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
In 2017 Mr J had a rare car stolen from a repair shop. The repair shops insurance didnt 
cover the loss. So he claimed on his Aviva motor trader policy. For various reason there 
were delays. In 2018 he complained to this service. An investigator said Avivas offer of £300 
to recognise unnecessary delays was fair. Later that year Aviva offered Mr J a settlement of 
£78,355. He said it was too low. He felt the cars value was higher. Aviva paid him that 
amount as an interim payment. 
In response to a complaint Aviva said it wouldnt settle any higher. It said the policy only 
provided indemnity. It interpreted that to mean it was only required to cover him for the 
losses he had sustained. It considered that his loss was limited to only his expenditure on 
purchasing the car and its restoration. Mr J said the settlement should instead be based on 
the value of the car. 
Our investigator felt Mr Js policy covered him for the cost of replacing of the car. She initially 
said it should settle based on a market value of about £107,00. Aviva didnt accept that a 
value should be used to settle. But it made a final settlement offer of £82,240  meaning an 
additional payment of £3,885 to Mr J. He didnt accept that. The investigator then said a 
trade value would be fair. She felt £96,600 would be appropriate  based on a valuation from 
a trade guide. Aviva didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me.  
Mr J did initially ask this service to consider any unnecessary delay taken by Aviva to settle 
his claim. He also asked for consideration of financial losses resulting from any delay and 
the settlement offered. Hes since requested that we dont consider those complaint points. 
So this decision only looks at the amount offered by Aviva to settle the claim. It doesnt look 
at any delays (including compensation offered by Aviva for this) or financial losses resulting 
in the amount offered and paid to settle the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Key to this dispute is Avivas application of the policy term indemnify. The policy says it will 
indemnify Mr J when theres damage to the vehicle. Aviva says the policy provides no 
express term to include market value. It says the policy is unvalued. It says this means the 
policyholder can only recover the real and actual value of the loss.  Aviva defines that as his 
expenditure on the car  essentially what he paid to buy it and for any work on it. Mr J feels 
this is unfair. He feels he should be paid the replacement value of the car  not just what it 
cost him.
My understanding of indemnity or to indemnify as a principal is this - the policyholder 
should be restored to the same financial position after a loss as they enjoyed immediately 
before the loss. Avivas accepted this understanding of indemnify in its correspondence with 
this service.
Putting Mr J back in the financial position he was in immediately before the loss doesnt 
seem to be as simple as reimbursing him his outlay on the car. Instead it would be putting 
him in a financial position that made up of the loss of the car itself  not what he had spent 
on it. The two arent necessarily the same. 
Mr Js financial position immediately before the loss was that of a motor trader with a car he 
planned to sell on the retail market. For practical purposes indemnifying him would involve, 
as a motor trader with a motor trader policy, a settlement based on the cost of replacing the 
car at trade price. He hadnt yet sold it or agreed a sale. So I dont feel it would be 
reasonable for the settlement to be based on a retail value of the car as requested by Mr J. 
This service has been provided with a trade value of £96,600. That was provided by a motor 
trade valuation guide. Aviva hasnt contested that as a reasonable trade value. Mr Js 
provided various retail adverts and information. But Ive not been provided with anything 
more persuasive. 
That trade value is higher than the outlay-based settlement Avivas provided. So Avivas 
settlement is unfair. To restore Mr J to the financial position he was in immediately before 
the loss Aviva should settle the claim based on a trade value of £96,600. As far as Im aware 
Avivas already paid Mr J £78,355. That means it needs to pay him an additional £18,245. If 
Aviva hasnt already applied any applicable excess, it can deduct that from what it needs to 
pay Mr J. 
Aviva will need to add simple interest at 8% to the additional amount it pays Mr J to settle the 
claim. Thats because its failure to settle the claim fairly caused him to be without those 
funds. Interest should be added from the date of the interim payment in November 2019 to 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Aviva Insurance Limited will need to pay Mr J whatever 
additional amount is required to settle his claim using a trade value of £96,600. It will need to 
add simple interest at 8% to that amount from the date of the interim payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman