DRN-1551371
 
complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken at 
the same time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, most likely, over 20 years ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither Lloyds nor Mr G has been able to provide any of the specific 
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I 
think most likely happened. 
I have noted the sample application form that Lloyds has provided that it says was most 
likely the one that applied at that time. I think its most likely that this is the form that would 
have been used at the time of the sale. To get the cover Mr G would have had to select it 
and he would have had a choice about doing that. 
Mr G said he hadnt agreed to the cover. Ive seen a credit card statement from 20 January 
2000 which shows that Mr G was paying for PAYMENTS INSURANCE  PREMIUM on a 
balance carried forward from the previous statement. I think that Mr G would have been 
provided with these statements and I think that its more likely that he would have been 
aware he was paying for this policy. So if Mr G hadnt agreed to the PPI then I think his 
statements would have put him on notice he was paying for something he now says he 
hadnt agreed to and he would have, most likely, raised this as an issue with Lloyds many 
years before he eventually chose to do.     
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr G aware the PPI was 
optional or failed to secure his agreement to take it out. And in any event, considering how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this 
case, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr G aware that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because Mr G was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
say this as Mr G told us that whilst his initial sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after 
six months. And Mr G told us he had no other means he could rely on in that circumstance, 
or if he lost her job. This PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mr Gs monthly balance for up 
to 12 months in either event. So, as this would pay out in addition to any sick pay he may 
have been entitled to, I think the policy would have been useful to Mr G if something went 
wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, including the cost of the policy. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was 
suitable, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman