DRN-4390997
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim it made on
its commercial combined insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022 M contacted Great Lakes to make a claim. It said there had been water
ingress to its business premises following a storm which had damaged items stored there. A
loss adjuster attended and found the water depth had reached around 80mm though
dampness in the blockwork extended to 200mm. Some of the damaged goods were stored
on the floor. Others were on racks which were around 50-60mm above floor level.
Great Lakes said the policy contained a condition requiring all stock stored on the premises
to be stored at not less than 15 centimetres above floor level. As that wasnt the case here it
turned down the claim.
Our investigator agreed M hadnt complied with this condition. But as the dampness at the
premises extended to 200mm even if it had done she thought damage would still have taken
place. She thought Great Lakes should settle the claim in line with the relevant policy limits
and excesses and pay 8% interest on the settlement amount. She also thought it should pay
M £500 in recognition of the inconvenience it had been caused by the claim being wrongly
turned down.
M agreed with her outcome. Great Lakes didnt and said it would be providing further
reasons for this. However, it didnt do so.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ms policy. I can see this does contain (within
the general obligations section) a condition which says You must ensure that all Stock
stored on the Premises is stored on racks, shelves or stillage not less than 15 centimetres
above floor level otherwise all Damage arising from or caused by the Defined Perils of
escape of water from any tank, apparatus or pipe, storm and flood will be excluded
M argues that wasnt included on the description of endorsements which were attached to
the policy. I dont think it was (though it is referenced on the policy schedule). But while it
might have been a policy endorsement its also a general condition of the policy. 
And if M thinks this is something that should have been drawn to its attention when it took 
the policy out (and wasnt) then under the relevant rules its for the seller of the policy (which 
wasnt Great Lakes) to provide it with information about it. So concerns about this would 
need to be directed to that business.
M has also suggested it wasnt provided with the policy wording. But I think thats something
it should reasonably have been aware of when either taking the policy our or at subsequent
renewals. And if it had concerns about this it could have raised these with Great Lakes (or its
broker) at the time.
Turning to the condition itself the escape of water followed a storm so I think its relevant to
the claim M made. Nor does it appear to be in dispute that items damaged by the water
ingress were either on the floor of the premises or were being stored on racks which were
around 50-60mm above floor level. I think the policy condition is clear and I dont think Great
Lakes did anything wrong in concluding M hadnt met it.
Ive gone on to consider whether its nevertheless fair of it to turn down the claim M made. In
doing so Ive taken into account that the Insurance Act 2015 says an insurer cant turn down
a claim on the basis of non-compliance with a term (including a condition precedent) if the
policyholder is able to show the non-compliance couldnt have increased the risk of the loss
which actually occurred, in the circumstances in which it did. That applies to conditions
which relate to a particular type of loss or a loss at a particular location or time.
I think thats relevant here because the storage condition relates to loss at a particular
location (Ms business premises). And I think non-compliance with that condition has
increased the risk of the loss which occurred (in the circumstances in which it did). The water
damaged items were on the floor of Ms premises and on racks which didnt meet the
storage conditions set out in the policy.
I accept the dampness nevertheless extended up the walls by 200mm which is more than
the minimum storage height set out in the policy. However, its not clear significant damage
was caused by that. The photographs in the loss adjusters report indicate the damaged
items were either on the floor or stored on racks.
The loss adjuster does conclude the damage was exacerbated by moisture soaking into
damaged items between the time of the storm and discovery the following morning. But his
view is this travelled upwards (presumably from the water). He doesnt suggest there was
moisture transference from the walls.
And photographs from the report show items stored at a higher level which werent damaged
by the water ingress. I think its likely if other items had been stored in the same way (and in
line with the condition in the policy) theyd have been clear of any direct water contact and
wouldnt have been impacted by any dampness in the walls.
In any case the test as set out in the Insurance Act isnt whether compliance with the
condition would have prevented some or all of the loss but whether the policyholder has
shown non-compliance didnt increase the risk of that loss occurring (in the circumstances in
which it did). I dont think M has shown that. In my view leaving items on the floor or in close
proximity to it (in breach of the condition) will have increased the risk of them being damaged
(and the resultant loss) when water unfortunately entered the premises following the storm.
So I think Great Lakes has acted correctly and fairly in turning down Ms claim. Im sorry to
bring M what I appreciate will be extremely disappointing news.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. M did provide further comments. In 
summary it said:
The policy endorsement didnt contain the stillage condition and the schedule didnt 
provide specific detail on this. It thought it had complied with the general wording of the condition as set out in the schedule. The detailed policy wording wasnt provided to it 
until after the claim had been made. It thought the schedule and endorsements should 
have contained the key conditions that needed to be adhered to and didnt. 
It said the insurer for policy year 2022/23 hadnt included the stillage condition on the 
schedule or endorsements and this was prior to the claim it made concluding. And it 
queried what difference this made to the claim it had made and whether a condition 
could be applied if it wasnt listed in the schedule but was included in the policy wording.
It thought it was difficult to gauge the level of water ingress at the peak of the flood given 
the loss adjuster didnt attend until some weeks after this had taken place. But it thought 
the level in the car park close to its premises was more than 200mm based on marks to 
vehicle wheels and brickwork stains.
It also highlighted that the handling of its claim had been slow, in particular it had taken 
nearly two weeks for a loss adjuster to attend. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I agree the stillage condition doesnt appear as an 
endorsement in the document containing these. But it is referenced in the policy schedule. I 
appreciate that doesnt set out in detail what the requirements were but I think that reference 
should reasonably have prompted M to obtain further information on this by consulting the 
policy document which does set out the requirement as one of the general conditions of the 
policy. 
I appreciate M says it didnt have the policy wording until after it made its claim but, as Ive 
already concluded, I think thats something it should reasonably have been aware of when 
either taking the policy our or at subsequent renewals. And if it had concerns about this it 
could have raised these with Great Lakes (or its broker) at the time. 
And not all of the conditions of a policy do need to be included in the schedule. However, its 
the responsibility of the seller to provide M with information about the significant exclusions 
and limitations. If M feels that the condition in relation to stillage is something that should 
have been drawn to its attention when taking out the policy (and wasnt) then it could raise 
its concerns with that business. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think its unfair of 
Great Lakes to rely on the stillage condition when considering the claim M made. And its the 
policy in force at the point the damage occurred which is relevant here. 
Turning to the points M has made about the claim itself I appreciate the loss adjuster didnt 
attend until some weeks after the flood had taken place. I recognise its difficult to say 
exactly what level the water reached. But even if M is correct to say this exceeded the level 
set out in the stillage condition I dont think that changes things. 
As Ive already said the test, as set out in the Insurance Act, is whether the policyholder has
shown non-compliance with a condition didnt increase the risk of the loss occurring (in the 
circumstances in which it did). I dont think M has shown that. In my view leaving items on 
the floor or in close proximity to it (in breach of the condition) will have increased the risk of 
them being damaged (and the resultant loss) when water unfortunately entered the premises 
following the storm. So it remains my view that Great Lakes acted correctly and fairly in 
turning down Ms claim.Ive also thought about the time taken to progress the claim. It does appear to have taken 
some weeks for a loss adjuster to attend. Im not clear why that was but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think thats impacted the outcome of the claim. And I dont think the overall 
time taken to deal with the claim was unreasonable. I can see M told Great Lakes about this 
in mid August and the initial claim decline was issued in early October with a final decision 
being provided the following month. 
M has also drawn attention to the lack of response from Great Lakes to our service. I 
appreciate Great Lakes didnt provide the further information it said it would following our 
investigators view. But that doesnt change the fact I need to reach a decision based on 
whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. And Ive explained here 
and in my provisional decision why I think it was fair of it to turn down the claim M made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask M to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman