DRN-3152348
The complaint
Mrs K complains about her mortgage with The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia. 
She says its not treated her fairly while shes experienced financial difficulty or taken her 
personal circumstances into account. She says it has refused to give her a lower interest 
rate, or to remove her former husband from the mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs K and her former husband took out their mortgage with Britannia many years ago. 
Theyve since separated and divorced. As part of the divorce settlement, he has no interest 
in the property, and Mrs K is responsible for making the mortgage payments. She also 
undertook to try to remove him from the mortgage. 
Mrs K says she has experienced financial difficulty for a number of years. Shes not always 
been in arrears. But its been difficult to make the payments. She says Britannia has not 
treated her fairly or sympathetically. Its refused to remove her former husband from the 
mortgage because it doesnt think the mortgage is affordable for her on her own. But it wont 
do things like lower the interest rate to make it easier for her.
Mrs K says she has health conditions, including stress and anxiety. She says shes made 
Britannia aware of this but it hasnt taken her health into account or recognised her needs, 
and has failed to support her. It kept asking for the same information over and over, without 
doing anything to help.
Mrs K says she was finally able to take a new interest rate in 2019, which more than halved 
her monthly payments. She says its not fair that Britannia kept her on its standard variable 
rate (SVR) for over seven years first. 
Britannia said it needed Mrs Ks former husbands agreement to make changes to the 
mortgage. It only agreed to go ahead in 2019 following a letter he sent saying that he didnt 
want to be involved in Mrs Ks decisions about the mortgage. It said that Mrs K was in fact in 
a small amount of arrears at this point, but it agreed to help her by giving her a backdated 
payment holiday, which removed the arrears to make her eligible for a new rate. 
Britannia said that Mrs K had complained about several of these issues before. It said there 
had been previous complaints about:
It needing her former husbands agreement before agreeing to a new interest rate;
The process for granting the rate in 2019, including the payment holiday.
However, it said we could investigate the complaints about its customer service over the 
years, including how it had or had not supported Mrs K in her financial difficulty taking into 
account her health concerns. 
Britannia said that where a customer was experiencing difficulties, it needed to understand 
their situation. This included asking for details of income and expenditure. And while Mrs K 
might have felt this was asked for too often, it had to check her current circumstances and 
whether things had changed for her. It said it wasnt aware of her ill-health until 2019, so 
couldnt have taken it into account. It said it had acted fairly.
Ive previously issued a decision setting out that we can only consider part of this complaint. 
I said that Mrs K had made previous complaints about most of the matters she was 
complaining about now. Britannia had investigated those earlier complaints, and Mrs K had 
not referred them to us, so they were now out of time. I said that meant we could not 
consider anything about the interest rate, whether Britannia should have offered a lower rate, 
or whether Mrs Ks former husbands consent was needed  or the circumstances 
surrounding the application in 2019. And while we could look at the rest of the complaint, we 
could only consider the six years before Mrs K complained  so from January 2014 onwards.
One of our investigators looked at the rest of the complaint. He thought that Britannia had 
treated Mrs K fairly when shed experienced financial difficulty. But he didnt think it had 
given fair consideration to her application to remove her former husband from the mortgage. 
He said it should remove him now. And he said it should pay £250 compensation.
Neither party agreed with that. Britannia said it would consider another application to remove 
him  but couldnt agree to that without doing so. It said it would need to understand Mrs Ks 
circumstances and give her advice, including about her interest only repayment strategy, 
first. And Mrs K didnt agree she had been treated fairly in financial difficulty, and continued 
to maintain the complaint about the interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained above, there are parts of this complaint I cant consider  in particular the 
interest rate thats been applied to the mortgage. I know this is a key part of what Mrs K is 
concerned about, but Im afraid that part of her complaint is out of time.
Ive looked at how Britannia has treated Mrs K over the years when it comes to her 
difficulties in maintaining the mortgage  since January 2014. 
Ive noted what she says about how difficult things have been for her over the years, and Im 
very sorry to hear about that. Ive looked carefully at the history of the mortgage, and I can 
see that Mrs K  in the period I can consider  was only in arrears briefly in 2014 and again 
in 2019.
In 2014, Britannia asked Mrs K about her income and expenditure. Id expect this to happen, 
so that it can get a good understanding of her situation and see what it can do. However, 
Mrs K then brought the mortgage up to date. As she was then making the payments, there 
was nothing to suggest to Britannia that she was still having difficulties, and it didnt know it 
might need to think about other ways of helping her. Its therefore difficult for me to say it 
acted unfairly over this time.
In early 2019, Mrs K missed another payment. Britannia was by this time exploring giving her 
a new interest rate. Britannia gave her a backdated payment holiday so that the missed 
payment wouldnt prejudice the rate switch. As I explained in my previous decision, this isnt 
something that I can consider.
Im therefore satisfied that Britannia hasnt treated Mrs K unfairly. It started to work with her 
in 2014, but then she brought the mortgage back up to date. And theres no evidence that she made it aware between then and 2019 that she was still having difficulties.
Ill turn now to the applications to remove Mrs Ks former husband. The divorce order makes 
clear he no longer has an interest in the property and that Mrs K is to try to remove him from 
the mortgage. He has written to Britannia and spoken to Britannia to make clear he doesnt 
think he should be involved in the mortgage any more. So its clear both parties want the 
mortgage to be moved into Mrs Ks sole name.
Mrs K has applied to do this. But Britannia hasnt agreed. It said it didnt think the mortgage 
would be affordable for Mrs K on her own. And when our investigator said it should remove 
Mrs Ks husband, it said it would need to look at her circumstances, including her repayment 
strategy, first.
I dont think Britannia has acted fairly here. In saying that, Ive taken into account the rules of 
mortgage regulation. They say that a change of parties can be agreed  even where an 
affordability assessment is failed, or where theres no acceptable repayment strategy  
where the change is otherwise in the borrowers best interests.
Given her circumstances, its difficult for Mrs K to pass a full affordability assessment 
including stress test. But its also clear that she has been maintaining the mortgage herself 
since 2014  the missed payments in 2019 appear to be related as much to confusion about 
what was happening with the product switch as to any inability to pay, and in any case were 
dealt with by the backdated payment holiday.
Ive seen the notes of the product switch in 2019. They show that Britannia considered 
Mrs Ks repayment strategy at that point  and accepted it. The strategy included a lump 
sum payment she would be due from her former husbands pension as part of the divorce 
and an interest in her fathers property. 
So while Britannia now says it needs to assess repayment strategy before agreeing to the 
change of parties, it already has  and I dont see why this would have needed to be a 
barrier to an application around the same time as the product switch.
So it doesnt seem that interest only repayment strategy is a significant concern here. And 
while Mrs K might fail a strict affordability assessment, she has been affording the mortgage 
 and its become more affordable since the product switch. Without Mrs Ks former husband 
on the mortgage, there would be no barrier to future product switches either.
And looked at more broadly, I think its clearly in her best interests to remove the remaining 
ties to her former husband  and in his best interests for that to happen too  so she can 
move on with her life. The terms of the divorce order compel her to sell the property in 2025 
if she hasnt been able to get him removed from the mortgage before then. Thats a 
compelling reason why it would be in her best interests to remove him.
Taking that altogether, then, Mrs K has been paying the mortgage for many years  and it 
has become more affordable for her, that she has a repayment strategy which Britannia was 
content with in 2019, and given that there are strong grounds for saying it is in her best 
interests to allow the application to go ahead. In the circumstances, I think its fair to say that 
Britannia should have taken into account the discretion allowed in the mortgage rules rather 
than refusing Mrs Ks applications because she didnt pass a full affordability assessment.
Putting things right
Acting fairly, Britannia should in my view have allowed the change of borrowers application  
and so it should do so now. And I agree that £250 is fair compensation for the upset caused by not doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The 
Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia to:
Remove Mrs Ks former husband from the mortgage; and
Pay Mrs K £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman