DRN-1082259
The complaint
Mr S complained to Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) on 30 April 2019 that he failed to 
receive a maturity pack for a Cash ISA setting out the options available for his funds when it 
matured. Specifically, he says:
during his conversation with YBS on 30 April 2019, the representative displayed a 
lack of customer focus and was intent on resolving the complaint there and then;   
when he called YBS on 24 May 2019, having received its final response letter, the 
complaint manager deliberately attempted to bait his wife who was interrupted five or 
six times while she was trying to repeat to him what the representative had just said;
he couldnt accept how he failed to receive two maturity packs YBS says it sent to 
him on 12 April 2019 and 30 April 2019 and why the final response letter took eight 
days to arrive. As Mr S had never previously had issues with his post, he was 
sceptical about YBS implying that this was the fault of Royal Mail;
he only knew on 24 May 2019 what his options were, and this left him four working 
days without anything in writing to decide what to do; 
YBS failed to make reasonable adjustments for his hearing disability. He found the 
telephone conversations humiliating and put him at an unfair disadvantage;
the delay in receiving details of his options at maturity caused him a financial loss 
because he couldnt transfer the value of his ISA to another ISA manager that offered 
a rate of interest of 1.5 per cent per annum until 31 May 2019.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr S invested £20,000 in a two-year, fixed rate Cash ISA, which was due to 
mature on 30 April 2019. It paid interest, tax-free, of 1.25 per cent per annum. When he 
opened this account, YBS discussed with him its procedure for treating him as a vulnerable 
client given he had a hearing impairment. But Mr S didnt wish to receive special treatment, 
as his wife always accompanied him in his dealings with YBS.
When the ISA matured, Mr S would have full access to the maturity proceeds between
1 May and 31 May 2019 when he could add to, withdraw from or close the account without 
losing interest. During this period, his options were either to:
transfer to another fixed rate ISA over the same term which paid 1.15 per cent per 
annum to 30 April 2021;
choose to invest some, or all, of the proceeds in another savings account. But he 
needed to transfer the funds to another ISA for his money to retain its tax-free status 
or 
close his account and take the funds as cash or transfer them to another ISA 
manager to retain the tax-free status of his savings.
If Mr S delayed giving instructions to YBS beyond 31 May 2019, his funds would be 
transferred to another two-year, fixed rate ISA offering 1.15 per cent per annum. But, if he 
then wished to close the account, its value would suffer a loss of interest. The product 
literature explained that these options would be set out to him in maturity pack sent at least 
14 days prior to the maturity of this Fixed Rate ISA. On 30 April 2019, Mr Ss wife telephone telephoned YBS, with Mr S in attendance, to 
complain that it hadnt sent him details of his options at maturity and this caused him worry 
as to the whereabout of his money. It also gave him much less time to consider his options.
In response, a YBS representative assured Mr S it had issued a maturity pack to him on
12 April 2019 which had been correctly addressed. It couldnt account for him failing to 
receive it. The representative offered to send him a duplicate pack and, in the meantime, 
explained the options available to him, including fixed rate ISAs that paid interest over two, 
three or four years of 1.45 per cent, 1.65 per cent and 1.80 per cent per annum respectively. 
If Mr S did decide to reinvest his funds in another YBS account which offered a higher rate of 
interest than 1.15 per cent per annum, it would backdate the higher rate to 1 May 2019.   
YBS confirmed in a final response letter dated 16 May 2019 that the original maturity pack 
was correctly addressed to Mr S and had been despatched to him on 12 April 2019. 
Thereafter, both YBS and Mr S would be relying on Royal Mail delivering this post. It couldnt 
explain why Mr S failed to receive this correspondence.
YBS also felt that, in her telephone conversation with Mr S on 30 April 2019, its 
representative had been helpful in explaining the options available to him, promised to send 
out a replacement maturity pack and assured Mr S that he would lose no interest due to the 
delay in receiving his maturity options. Mr Ss wife confirmed that they wished to make a 
complaint.
YBS did accept that it wasnt ideal for the representative to keep Mr S s wife on hold for 
nine minutes while she registered the complaint and, as such, it offered Mr S £25 for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused him. Otherwise, YBS considered it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
When Mr and Mrs S called YBS on 24 May 2019 on receipt of its final response letter, they 
knew they hadnt received the replacement maturity pack it promised to send them on
30 April 2019. They also questioned why the final response letter had taken eight days to 
arrive. When Mr S enquired how he could make YBSs chief executive aware of his 
grievance, he was advised to write to him separately. In the meantime, he asked if YBS had 
a business retention team to whom he could speak as he was considering closing all the 
account he held with the Society. The representative confirmed that it didnt offer such a 
service.
When Mr S asked how he could transfer the value of his ISA to another manager, the 
representative explained that he would need to contact the receiving ISA manager which 
would help him to complete the necessary paperwork. 
Also, if, on receiving a copy of the maturity pack, Mr S decided after 31 May 2019 that he 
wished to close the account, the representative agreed that his ISA savings would not suffer 
any loss of interest. As it was, Mr S did transfer the value of his ISA to another manager on 
31 May 2019 and, in doing so, he lost no interest on his funds.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who felt YBS had responded to 
it appropriately. Briefly, he concluded that:
with regard to missing post, YBSs responsibility is to address correspondence 
correctly and to despatch it. It fulfilled that responsibility. Our service cant hold YBS 
responsible for anything that may happen after post has been despatched and was 
outside its control;
the investigator couldnt explain why Mr S didnt receive his maturity packs; the representative explained to Mr S on 30 April 2019 what his options were at 
maturity; she also agreed to resend the maturity pack, and its evident from its 
system notes that she did so on that day. So, he didnt think YBS was at fault for
Mr S failing to know his options after his ISA matured;
our service cannot comment on YBSs handling of Mr Ss complaint, as this is not a 
regulated activity;
while YBS maintains it wasnt at fault for post going astray, it agreed to waive the loss 
of interest if Mr S didnt close his account by 31 May 2019. This was a reasonable 
offer in the circumstances, it gave Mr S time to consider his options and ensure he 
wasnt disadvantaged if he couldnt make a decision by 31 May 2019;
in the telephone conversations on 30 April and 24 May 2019, he felt both 
representatives were professional and polite throughout. That the representative 
disagreed with Mr Ss view doesnt mean it provided an inadequate service. And it 
didnt come across in either call that YBS was being provocative towards Mr S or had 
baited his wife and the calls ended amicably;
as Mr S disagreed with the outcome, he was informed that he could refer the matter 
to our service, write to YBSs chief executive or request another member of its 
complaints team to review his grievance;
regarding any allowance YBS was required to make for Mr Ss disability, the 
investigator noted that Mr S preferred not to receive special treatment afforded a 
vulnerable client because he said his wife always accompanied him at meetings. She 
was able to participate in both telephone conversations on loudspeaker once YBS 
had obtained Mr Ss consent for his wife to speak on his behalf;
Mr S transferred his ISA fund to another manager on 31 May 2019 which offered a 
rate of interest of 1.50 per cent per annum. While this cost him interest on £20,000 of 
six pounds over one month, given the investigator felt YBS wasnt responsible for the 
time taken for Mr S to transfer his ISA funds, he couldnt offer compensation for this 
loss. But YBS had, in any event, offered £25 to settle his complaint.
In response, Mr S disagreed with the investigators assessment and said that:
the telephone call on 24 May 2019 did not end amicably. He was polite but the 
investigator underestimated his strength of feeling on this matter in that he requested 
YBSs chief executive to look at his grievance and indicated that he might withdraw 
all his money;
YBS didnt offer the option of transferring the value of his ISA to another manager;
hes adamant that he didnt receive either maturity pack and, on balance, it doesnt 
seem credible that they were issued;
the investigator has accepted YBSs word as to when maturity packs were issued 
without interrogating its computer systems;
YBS failed to explain all the options in their telephone conversation on 30 April 2019 - 
it only set out the options that enabled Mr S to leave his funds with YBS or to close 
his account, thereby losing the tax advantages of being in an ISA wrapper. When he 
received the final response letter on 24 May 2019, this still didnt explain his options;
in a preliminary conversation with another representative on 24 May 2019, she 
confirmed that his ISA funds were now tied up in an account until 2021 paying 1.15 
per cent per annum;
an offer of £25 was not enough to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered in this matter;
he has since transferred funds of £80,000 from YBS as hes not comfortable with a 
business that cant guarantee investors receive their maturity packs and jeopardises 
the tax benefits provided by ISAs;the investigator didnt refer to, or take account of, his hearing impairment and that the 
Equality Act 2010 required YBS to make reasonable adjustments to ensure he 
received the same service as someone who doesnt have a disability;
he maintains that an award of £100 would be appropriate compensation to resolve 
his complaint.
The investigator responded to say that:
its not our role to make a finding on whether YBS breached the Equality Act. But we 
will take a view as to whether it has acted reasonably. The purpose of the Act is that 
it should make reasonable adjustments to their services so that, as far as possible, 
people with a disability receive the same service as those who dont have a disability;
it wasnt evident how Mr S had been disadvantaged by YBSs actions or what Mr S 
had been prevented from doing that other customers would have been able to do 
without his disability;
Mr S has never explained what reasonable adjustments he expected YBS to make;
YBS gave Mr S a final response to his complaint dated 16 May 2019, setting out its 
position. Mr S could have referred the matter to our service at that point. But he 
called YBS again to discuss its decision and the investigator didnt detect the 
conversation became abusive or petulant.
Mr S replied that:
the investigator failed to address the potential loss of his ISA tax wrapper;
he was initially told that, as a result of the delay in receiving his options, the value of 
his ISA would be tied-up for another two years until 2021 without his consent. This 
was a deliberate attempt to retain customers;
he maintains that his wife was constantly interrupted by the representative while she 
was trying to explain things to him despite Mr S asking her to stop. This was 
unprofessional and petty;
the representative treated him in a patronising way and in a manner that was 
different to her approach when speaking to his wife;
YBS treated him in accordance with his requirements in April 2017. These were 
irrelevant by 2019. His hearing has declined significantly in two years;
our service has failed to be independent and objective in the handling of his 
complaint.
The investigator finally commented that:
Mr S had never before mentioned the potential loss of his tax benefits on closing the 
ISA. He would not have lost his tax wrapper unless he chose to withdraw his funds 
from the ISA. YBS didnt give him advice to close his account because this was not 
an advised sale. It set out all the options available to Mr S;
Mr S transferred his ISA to another manager without penalty and our service doesnt 
award compensation for potential losses. Mr S didnt lose his tax wrapper, so YBS 
cant be expected to compensate him for losses that havent been realised;
he accepted that Mr S didnt receive the maturity letters. But this cant be attributed to 
YBS, which correctly addressed them and showed they were issued; 
the role of our service is to ensure YBS had acted fairly and reasonably and he was 
satisfied that it had done so. 
he couldnt agree to increase the offer made by YBS of £25 to £100.
What Ive decided - and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments, including recordings of the 
telephone conversations between Mr and Mrs S and YBS on 30 April and 24 May 2019, to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2017, Mr S applied to invest £20,000 in a YBS Cash ISA offering a fixed rate of 1.25 
per cent per annum. He confirmed on his application form that hed lived at his current 
address for almost 20 years.
The keyfacts document accompanying his application stated that the ISA matured on
30 April 2019, whereupon it would transfer to another fixed rate ISA with a term no greater 
than his existing ISA. No interest rate was quoted for the new fixed rate ISA - details would 
be provided at least 14 days prior to the maturity of this Fixed Rate ISA.
At maturity, and for one more month (until 31 May 2019), Mr S could withdraw all, or part, of 
the maturity value and have full access to it without incurring any loss of interest. After
31 May 2019, he could still close his ISA, but he would lose a number of days interest on 
the closing balance. The keyfacts document also advised him that early closure meant his 
funds would lose their tax-free status, unless he transferred them to another ISA.
When he applied for the ISA in April 2017, Mr S had a hearing impairment and he was asked 
if he wished to be treated as a vulnerable client (VC) to ensure YBS gave him the most 
appropriate service tailored to his needs. He confirmed that he didnt wish to be treated as a 
VC, as his wife would always accompany him at meetings and be present if he made or 
received telephone calls.
YBS has shown it did issue a maturity letter to Mr S on 12 April 2019 that was correctly 
addressed, setting out details of the account to which the maturity value of his existing ISA 
would be transferred. This new account offered a rate of interest of 1.15 per cent per 
annum and, unless Mr S gave instructions to the contrary by 31 May 2019, this account 
invested for two years at this fixed rate, until 30 April 2021. Otherwise, if he closed the 
account after 31 May 2019, he would lose several days interest on the closing balance. 
Alternatively, Mr S could invest the proceeds in another savings account. But he needed to 
transfer the funds to another ISA for his money to retain its tax-free status. The 
representative advised him on 30 April 2019 of the rates available for two, three and four-
year Cash ISAs. Otherwise, he could either close his account and take the proceeds as cash 
or transfer the funds to another ISA manager and so retain their tax-free status.
Mrs S called YBS on 30 April 2019 when Mr Ss ISA was due to mature, notifying it that he 
hadnt received any information on what his options were when the ISA matured. The 
representative asked Mr S whether he consented to his wife speaking to YBS on his behalf 
and he confirmed that he did, after verifying his identity. Thereafter, the representatives 
dealings were largely conducted with Mrs S. 
I dont disbelieve Mr S when he says he didnt receive the original maturity pack in mid-April 
2019. But, as YBS has shown that this correspondence was correctly addressed to him, and 
that its mailing centre records confirm it was despatched on 12 April 2019, thats sufficient 
for me to conclude that YBS did issued the pack to him at that time. So, I cant hold YBS 
responsible for Mr S failing to receive it. And I cant see what more YBS could have 
reasonably done to ensure that he did receive this correspondence. 
Also, its evident from this telephone call that Mr S knew his ISA matured on 30 April 2019. 
He would also have known from the keyfacts document he received with his application form 
that YBS would inform him of his options at least 14 days before his ISA matured. But Mrs S 
didnt call YBS until the very day the ISA matured.As YBSs records confirm it sent Mr S a maturity pack on 12 April 2019, it wouldnt have 
known he hadnt received it until Mrs S called. And, given Mr S had a further month to decide 
what he wished to do with the maturity proceeds, YBS would not have assumed that Mr S 
didnt contact it before 30 April 2019 because he hadnt received a maturity pack two weeks 
earlier. Indeed, it would have assumed he was still considering his options because he had 
until 31 May 2019 to do so. On the contrary, YBS might have expected Mrs S to have called 
earlier once Mr S hadnt received his maturity pack by mid-April 2019.
While I dont think YBS was at fault in Mr S failing to receive his maturity pack, nevertheless, 
I can see that the representative:
explained all the options open to Mr S if he wished to leave his funds invested with 
YBS;
promised to send him a copy of the original maturity pack, which she despatched to 
him on 30 April 2019 and
guaranteed that, if Mr S did choose to reinvest the maturity proceeds in an account 
with YBS that offered a higher rate of interest than 1.15 per cent per annum, it would 
backdate this higher rate to 1 May 2019.
Mr S still had until 31 May 2019 to make a decision without being financially disadvantaged 
or his funds losing their tax-free status. So, given I dont think his failure to receive the 
maturity pack in mid-April 209 can be attributed to YBS, in my view, the offer he received on 
30 April 2019 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Instead, Mrs S responded that Mr S wished to make a complaint that YBS had failed to 
inform him of his options at maturity, he was unsure as to the whereabouts of his money and 
he now had less time to consider his options having still not received anything in writing.
I appreciate that Mr S has a hearing impairment. The Equality Act 2010 required YBS to 
make reasonable adjustments in its dealings with him that removed barriers he faced as a 
result of his impairment, so that, as far as possible, he receives the same service as 
someone who doesnt have his impairment.
But I dont appreciate how Mr Ss impairment impacts on the practice adopted by YBS in 
issuing ISA maturity packs, or what reasonable adjustments it would need to make in 
issuing written correspondence to a consumer who has a hearing impairment. I, therefore, 
dont consider that, in failing to receive this correspondence, Mr S has been disadvantaged 
any more than a consumer who has no such impairment. And, in any event, given YBS 
produced maturity packs that were correctly addressed to Mr S and were despatched to 
him each time on 30 April and 24 May 2019, I cant hold it responsible for his failing to 
receive this correspondence.
However, it is relevant to consider whether YBS made reasonable adjustments in its 
dealings with Mr S over the telephone when he and his wife spoke to YBS on 30 April and 
24 May 2019. With this in mind, while Mr S says his hearing had deteriorated since April 
2017, he didnt disclose this to YBS in April 2019.
So, its reasonable to accept that, when Mrs S called YBS on 30 April 2019, the 
representative followed its existing procedure - by explained that it could speak to her once 
Mr S had verified his identity by confirming his full name, account number and date of birth, 
which he duly provided. Thereafter, Mrs S spoke to the representative on first name terms 
throughout this call.Once the representative explained all the options available to Mr S, she offered to take 
instructions from Mrs S for both ISAs even though she appreciated they may have wanted to 
choose different options. 
At this point, Mrs S confirmed Mr S wished to make a complaint.
In response, the representative apologised if Mr S had failed to receive his maturity pack and 
promised to issue replacement packs that day. She also offered to guarantee that he would 
not be disadvantaged financially if he moved his fund to another YBS account that offered a 
higher rate of interest - this rate would be backdated to 1 May 2019. But she maintained that 
YBS had done nothing wrong in that the maturity pack was correctly addressed to Mr S and 
it was despatched on 12 April 2019. Thereafter, the destination of this correspondence was 
outside its control. It was likely therefore that the complaint would be rejected. Nevertheless, 
Mrs S requested the complaint to be escalated.
YBS was entitled under regulatory rules to resolve complaints verbally and immediately if it 
feels it can do so by the close of the third business day. But it must explain consumers right 
to refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service if they arent satisfied with the 
outcome. I cant hear that the representative explained these referral rights to Mrs S at that 
point. 
Notwithstanding this, I can find no evidence that the representative had been in any way 
abusive towards Mrs S or was intent on baiting her. And there was no indication that Mrs S 
expressed dissatisfaction with the way in which the representative had conducted the call.
Towards the end of the call, Mr S interjected to state the timescales within which he 
expected the complaint to be resolved and that he was entitled to refer the matter to our 
service. He also confirmed that the representatives handling of the call should also be 
considered but he didnt explain why he found it unsatisfactory.
When Mrs S called YBS again on 24 May 2019, she also stated that four sets of 
correspondence had now gone astray. By this, she was including the replacement maturity 
pack YBS had promised to send Mr S on 30 April 2019, which he was previously told would 
take three-to-five working days to arrive. But Mrs S waited around three weeks before 
reporting to YBS that the replacement pack had not been received.      
Mrs S initially expressed dissatisfaction at failing to receive the maturity correspondence and 
that YBSs final response letter itself took eight days to arrive and didnt included any details 
of their account or the options available to them at maturity. Thereafter, the call was 
conducted by Mr and Mrs S in turn, and Mr S responded promptly to every question and all 
information he was given, including his account number and YBSs email address, and only 
asked the representative once to repeat herself. 
The representative did agree it was an unfortunate coincidence that, on two occasions, Mr S 
had failed to receive a maturity pack sent out on 12 April and 30 April 2019. But she 
justifiably asked Mr S why he thought YBS was responsible for post going astray which had 
been correctly addressed and shown to have been despatched on the dates in question. 
Mr S ended the conversation by confirming that he would be transferring his ISA proceeds to 
another provider and the representative reiterated that he would not suffer any loss of 
interest on his existing ISAs funds even if he gave instructions to do so after 31 May 2019.
I did detect some echoing and feedback on the telephone line during this conversation, 
which may have given the impression to Mr S that the representative was interrupting him 
and his wife.  But, all things considered, Mr Ss complaint is that two maturity packs that were issued to 
him by YBS failed to arrive and this has caused him to worry about the whereabouts of his 
money and reduced the time he had to consider his options. 
While Mr S says the final response letter dated 16 May 2019 didnt include any details of his 
ISA or his options at maturity, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to have done so. All that 
information was included in the maturity pack YBS had previously re-issued on 30 April 2019 
which it reasonably believed Mr S would have already received.
I do sympathise with Mr S that, as the application he completed for his Cash ISA in April 
2017 didnt give precise details of his options at maturity, he still didnt have anything in 
writing from YBS which set out these options by 24 May 2019. But I cant hold YBS 
responsible for the maturity packs twice going astray in the post.           
As it is, Mr S decided to transfer his ISA to another manager, and completed all the 
formalities, within seven days of speaking to YBS on 24 May 2019. In doing so, he ensured 
his funds didnt lose their tax-free status. Notwithstanding this, YBS had promised not to 
apply any loss of interest to his money even if he had closed his account after 31 May 2019.
Also, I dont think YBS has dealt with Mr S inappropriately over the telephone; let alone, 
baited his wife or subjected her to abuse. In the telephone conversation on 30 April 2019, 
when attempting to resolve his complaint informally, the representative ought to have 
mentioned that Mr S was entitled to refer the matter to our service if he remained dissatisfied 
and kept Mrs S on hold for a significant length of time. And, following Mrs Ss initial 
telephone call with YBS on 24 May 2019, a representative didnt pass on the reason for her 
call to the representative who spoke to Mr and Mrs S at length later that day.
Otherwise, I dont think YBS failed to make reasonable adjustments in its dealings with
Mr S over the telephone to account for his hearing impairment. It was prepared to speak to 
Mrs S, having obtained Mr Ss consent to do so and verified his identity. And, when Mr S did 
engage in conversation with YBS on 24 May 2019, he articulated his complaint and fully 
understood everything he was told during that conversation.
So, in my view, compensation of £25.00 for the shortcomings in YBSs dealings with Mr S 
over his complaint is a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr S's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman