DRN-2852263
The complaint
Mr S has complained about irresponsible and unaffordable lending to him by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax.  
What happened
Mr S applied for a Halifax credit card in August 2009. He opened a Halifax current account 
with an overdraft at the same time. Mr S says he shouldnt have been given either the credit 
card or the overdraft as he thinks the credit wasnt affordable for him. The overdraft limit was 
£1,000 and the credit limit on his credit card was £1,500.
Mr S repeatedly asked for increases to the credit limit on his credit card. Halifax initially 
declined many of these and on occasion decreased his credit limit. But in October 2016, 
Mr Ss credit limit was increased from £1,250 to £1,750. Then in February 2017 it was 
increased to £5,000. Two further increases were made  to £5,400 in June 2017 and to 
£5,500 in September 2017. Halifax also increased Mr Ss overdraft limit  from £900 to 
£2,500  in September 2016.
Mr S says that when he applied for a credit card with Halifax he had previously been refused 
a current account and had had financial problems with other lenders. He thinks Halifax 
should have performed more checks when he first applied for the credit card, and when they 
agreed to increase his credit limit. Mr S thinks these checks would have shown that the 
credit wasnt affordable for him. He found himself in a cycle of spiralling debts, using more 
credit to maintain payments to Halifax. By the time Mr S complained, he had debts at Halifax 
of around £8,000  and total unsecured debts of nearly £37,000 across several lenders.
When Mr S complained to Halifax, they said there was no evidence of persistent debt on his 
credit card. They said theyd agreed some of Mr Ss requests for a credit limit increase and 
declined some, according to whether they thought each was affordable for him. So they felt 
theyd acted fairly.
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said we couldnt look at Mr Ss complaint about being given a credit card in 
2009. He said that fell outside of our jurisdiction as the credit card was approved more than 
six years ago. And he thought Mr S ought to have been aware he had cause to complain 
more than three years ago.
Our investigator then looked at Mr Ss complaint about the overdraft and credit limit 
increases. His view was that Halifax had done enough to ensure that each increase was 
affordable for Mr S. So he didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more.
As Mr S remained unhappy, he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, and it 
came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2021. I said I was minded to partially 
uphold Mr Ss complaint, that I didnt think Halifax have increased Mr Ss credit limit above 
£5,000, and that I thought they should refund any interest and charges applied to Mr Ss 
account above the £5,000 limit, as well as removing any adverse credit reporting from Mr Ss 
credit file.
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. But Mr S wasnt happy with my provisional 
findings. Ive set out below in relation to each lending decision a summary of what I said in 
my provisional decision, Mr Ss further comments, and my view on those comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My outcome is unchanged from my provisional decision. Ill explain why  taking each 
lending decision separately.
Initial approval in August 2009
In my provisional decision, I explained that Id agreed informally with Halifax that Mr Ss 
complaint about the original lending decision was in jurisdiction. I didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect Mr S to have been aware of the banks duty to lend responsibly. 
I then went on to consider whether Halifax had acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr S in 
2009. In summary, I said:
There was limited regulation and guidance in place at the time. And Halifax have very 
limited information available about what checks they carried out.
The Consumer Credit Act effectively forbade irresponsible lending, which it defined as: 
failing to take reasonable care in making loans or advancing lines of credit, including 
making only limited or no enquiries about consumers income before offering loans, and 
failing to take full account of the interests of consumers in doing so.  
From the application form, I could see that Halifax established that Mr Ss income was 
£14,000, and that he was a tenant so would have been paying rent.
Mr S had a basic account with Halifax that appeared to have been managed well.
I could see that at the time of the application Mr S was over his credit limit and had 
missed payments on at least two of the three credit cards he already had  and that he 
was regularly using his overdraft facility at another bank. So I could understand why Mr 
S feels Halifax should have done more checks and that they shouldnt have lent to him.
But without knowing what information Halifax looked at or what their lending criteria 
were at the time I cant say Halifax didnt take reasonable care when offering Mr S the 
credit card and overdraft in August 2009.
Mr S wasnt happy with my provisional assessment. He said that his overdraft was held with 
the same banking group and so Halifax should have been fully aware that hed been 
overdrawn for two years in August 2009. He added that Halifax didnt consider that the full 
amount of credit they were offering, when added to his existing credit, was substantially 
higher than his income and that he was likely to have trouble making repayments. And he 
suggests that if Halifax did consider his credit file, they came to the wrong conclusion.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. I do understand his concerns. But Halifax werent 
required to check their records of Mr Ss accounts across the whole banking group before 
deciding whether or not to approve Mr Ss application  they only had to take reasonable 
care.  In addition, the continuous use of an overdraft isnt necessarily an indicator of 
financial difficulties  it can simply be a way of managing ones personal finances.
From what Ive seen, Mr Ss total available credit after the credit card and overdraft were 
approved was around £4,500. Im satisfied that wouldnt appear to be unaffordable with 
annual income of £14,000.Finally, there was no requirement on Halifax to check Mr Ss credit file. If they did, which 
Halifax say is likely, theres no guarantee that Mr Ss late payments would have been 
showing on the one Halifax considered. And its possible that their lending criteria at the time 
allowed for some adverse reporting. So, having considered Mr Ss additional comments, I 
havent seen enough to indicate that Halifax failed to take reasonable care when lending to 
Mr S in August 2009.  
Credit limit and overdraft limit increases
I explained how I was assessing these increases in my provisional decision:
By the time Mr S was offered increases to his overdraft and credit limit, much more 
regulation had been put in place. The rules that set out what checks banks need to 
make when lending to customers are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) consumer credit sourcebook (CONC). As these rules were updated in 
November 2018, Ive looked at what CONC said before then, at the time of the 
increases.
In essence, CONC required a bank to make proportionate checks to ensure that a 
customer would be able to meet repayments in a sustainable way, without incurring 
financial difficulties. This means that the customer should be able to make the 
repayments while meeting other reasonable financial commitments, and without having 
to borrow to make the repayments. CONC 5 says a bank needed to base its 
assessment on the information it has about a customers disposable income.
September 2016  increased overdraft limit
In my provisional decision I set out the calculation Halifax had carried out in September 2016 
and the revised calculation theyd carried out as part of their review of the complaint. I said I 
thought their estimates were reasonable as was their conclusion that the increased overdraft 
would be affordable. I also said I could see Halifax had factored in Mr Ss other sources of 
credit  and that I hadnt seen any indicators that Mr S was in financial difficulty in 
September 2016. So I said I thought the checks were proportionate and Halifax acted fairly 
in increasing Mr Ss overdraft.
In response, Mr S said that at the time, he was using his credit card very near its limit and 
only making minimum payments each month. He also said he was using a considerable 
amount of his overdraft each month. And he commented that hed been using his other 
overdraft for gambling transactions. So he said it should have been clear that if he borrowed 
more, he wouldnt have been able to cover the increased repayments. He added that he 
wouldnt have been able to repay the overdraft if required  so he felt the new amount of 
overdraft was unaffordable.
Mr Ss comments havent changed my mind. CONC requires a lender to make its 
assessment based on a customers disposable income and Im satisfied thats what Halifax 
did. Whilst its important to consider any indicators of financial difficulty, Im satisfied the 
patterns Mr S has described in terms of the use of his credit card and overdraft arent 
particularly unusual and arent necessarily indicators of financial difficulty. 
I appreciate Mr Ss comments about not being able to repay the overdraft if it was demanded 
of him  and I agree he wouldnt have been able to do so out of his monthly disposable 
income. But it would be very unusual for a lender to demand full repayment of an overdraft. 
So wed usually say they need to consider whether a consumer would be able to repay the 
amount of an overdraft (or any other revolving credit) over a reasonable period of time. 
Halifax used five years as the basis of their assessment  Im satisfied this was reasonable.October 2016  increased credit limit
In my provisional decision I noted that this credit limit increase had been automatic and I set 
out the calculation Halifax had carried out in October 2016. I said I thought their estimates 
were reasonable and their checks were proportionate to the amount of new credit being 
offered.
Mr S said that as this decision had come only a month after the increase in his overdraft limit 
it should have been obvious that he couldnt afford any further credit, especially as the new 
overdraft limit was now being used. However, it appears Halifax took into account the use of 
the new overdraft limit in carrying out their assessment. So Im satisfied their checks were 
appropriate.
February 2017  increased credit limit
In my provisional decision, I noted that Mr S had asked for this increase to his credit limit. 
And I set out Halifaxs calculations and estimates that theyd used when checking whether 
the increased credit limit was affordable for Mr S. I said I was happy with most of these 
figures and noted that the key issue here was the credit commitments figure  which Halifax 
had noted as £81 per month. 
I said I thought Halifax had calculated this £81 in a reasonable way  by taking 3.5% of the 
amount of revolving credit reported on the credit file and adding loan repayments to this 
figure. I noted that the timing was unfortunate  Mr S had very recently consolidated many of 
his debts into a loan. This meant that the revolving credit figure on the credit file had reduced 
significantly, but the loan repayments figure wasnt showing on Mr Ss credit file.
I said Halifax were unaware that Mr S had a new loan and that if they had been aware, I 
thought it was likely theyd have offered Mr S a lower credit limit. But I said I thought Halifax 
had made proportionate checks and reached a fair decision based on the information 
available to them.
Mr S was unhappy with my view. He said the proceeds from the loan were paid into his 
Halifax bank account so they should have been aware of the loan. He added that the 
increase was again a relatively short time after the previous increases and that Halifax 
should have been able to see that he was caught in a cycle of debt which he couldnt 
maintain. 
I can understand Mr Ss view that Halifax should have been aware of the loan. But it wouldnt 
be proportionate for them to include a review of a customers full transaction history when 
carrying out affordability assessments. Theres no guidance that says they should do this 
and, on the face of it, the assessment that Halifax did carry out suggested that the increased 
credit limit was easily affordable, so Im satisfied they didnt need to do any more.
In respect of Mr Ss comments about the cycle of debt  again, Halifax werent aware of the 
loan and it would have appeared that Mr S had managed to significantly reduce his debts 
elsewhere. And there were no adverse markers on Mr Ss credit file. So I dont agree that 
Halifax should have been able to identify that Mr S was in financial difficulties.  
June 2017  increased credit limit
In my provisional decision, I said:
Halifax have told us they based their decision on monthly income of £1,295, housing 
costs of £174, essential living costs of £300 and credit commitments of £521.
So Halifaxs calculation was that Mr S had £300 disposable income per month. Applying 
Halifaxs approach of reducing that by 50%, this figure would have been £150. Halifax havent said what payments they think Mr S would have needed to make each month to 
make this debt sustainable, but Ive estimated it would be around £160.  That suggests 
this increase wasnt affordable for Mr S.
In addition, by this time Mr S was paying rental costs of £325 per month. So the 
modelled housing cost of £174 that Halifax was using was significantly below Mr Ss 
actual costs. Whilst Im happy it was proportionate for Halifax to use modelled housing 
costs in previous lending decisions while his disposable income appeared to be so 
much higher than the payments hed need to make each month, I dont think thats true 
once the decision became as borderline as this. 
Im inclined to say Halifax should have asked Mr S for more detail about his spending at 
this stage. If they had done, or if theyd checked his current account bank statements, 
theyd have discovered that his housing costs were £325. And if they substituted this 
figure in their calculation of disposable income theyd have arrived at net disposable 
income of £149 before their 50% discount.
On this basis I said I didnt think Halifax should have increased Mr Ss credit limit in 
June 2017. Neither Mr S nor Halifax have commented on this so my view is unchanged. 
September 2017  increased credit limit
In my provisional decision, I said:
The increase in September 2017 was just £100, from £5,400 to £5,500. This was based 
on income of £1,306, housing costs of £351, credit commitments of £349, and essential 
living costs of £300  i.e. disposable income of £306. 
Again, taking 50% of this meant £153 was available for repaying the credit card. Halifax 
havent told us a repayment figure so Ive estimated Mr S would have needed to pay 
around £165 to repay this in a sustainable way. Similar to the June 2017 decision, this 
suggests the increase wasnt affordable for Mr S.
I can see Halifax had updated Mr Ss housing figure before carrying out this 
assessment. And I continue to be happy with the income and essential living costs 
amounts. However, I cant see how Halifax arrived at the credit commitments figure in 
this assessment. They said that at this stage Mr S had unsecured debt of £16,879 and 
said about a previous lending decision that theyd usually estimate credit commitments 
at 3.5% of revolving debt. So Id expect the credit commitments figure to be in the region 
of £590, rather than £349. This would have left Mr S with disposable income of around 
£60, from which to make repayments of around £165. 
So I said I didnt think Halifax should have increased Mr Ss credit limit in September 2017 
either. Again, neither Mr S nor Halifax have commented on this so my view is unchanged.  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said:
I am intending to direct Halifax to put Mr S in the financial position he would have been 
in if his credit limit hadnt been increased above £5,000 as follows:
Refund interest and charges applied to Mr Ss account above the £5,000 credit limit 
and rework his credit card account. Any such refund should be applied to reduce 
Mr Ss credit card balance. 
Check for any periods when Mr Ss payments would have been enough to clear his 
balance and, if this is the case, pay 8% annual simple interest on any periods he would have been in credit up until the date he would have owed money on his credit 
card account again.
Reduce Mr Ss credit limit to £5,000. Any remaining balance above that limit should 
be held in a separate account and Mr S should be permitted to repay that separately. 
No interest or charges should be applied to that separate balance.
Remove any adverse credit reporting thats arisen since June 2017 from Mr Ss credit 
file.
Halifax should explain to Mr S how they have made the above calculations and how he 
can repay any balance held on the separate account.
Halifax agreed to refund interest and charges above the £5,000 credit limit and use the 
refund to reduce the outstanding balance. They also agreed to remove the late markers 
applied in 2020 and the over limit markers applied in 2019 from Mr Ss credit file They said 
there would have been no periods after June 2017 when Mr Ss payments would have been 
enough to clear the balance. And they said Mr Ss balance is around £4,600 and he cant 
access any new credit so theres no need to reduce the credit limit. Ive simplified my 
direction below based on what Halifax have said.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax need to:
Refund interest and charges applied to Mr Ss account above the £5,000 credit limit and 
rework his credit card account. Any such refund should be applied to reduce Mr Ss 
credit card balance. 
Remove any adverse credit reporting thats arisen since June 2017 from Mr Ss credit 
file.
Explain to Mr S how theyve made the above calculations.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman