DRN-3014813
The complaint
Mr H complains about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) handled his claim on his business insurance. 
What happened
Mr H had a business insurance policy with NFU to cover a commercial property he owns and 
rents out. In January 2020 he made a claim on the policy after the tenants stopped paying 
rent and left the property in a poor state. NFU declined the claim on the main policy due to 
the damage being caused gradually, but said it may be able to provide cover for pursuing the 
tenants for costs under the legal expenses cover in the policy. 
It put Mr H in touch with the company that provides that part of the cover and they appointed 
a solicitor to take on the claim. This process took some time and Mr H made a complaint to 
NFU about the delays. NFU upheld the complaint and offered £100 to make up for the poor 
service.
After considering the prospects of the claim the solicitors wrote to Mr H and said it wouldnt 
pursue the matter any further as they didnt think the prospects of recovery were likely, due 
to the tenants financial situation. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this. He said NFU had taken too long to come to an outcome, and if 
they hadnt, he would have been able to recover the costs. He made another complaint to 
NFU.
NFU didnt uphold his complaint, it said it could only look at matters that had arisen since its 
last complaint response and the actions of the legal expenses administrator rather than the 
solicitors. And it was satisfied that the correct process had been followed.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr Hs complaint be upheld. 
He thought that while Mr Hs claim had been fairly declined, NFU hadnt done enough to 
compensate him for the delays he had experienced. He recommended it pay an additional 
£250 to make up for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
NFU accepted our investigators opinion. However Mr H didnt think the recommended 
compensation was enough to make up for his experience. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint NFU has agreed that we can consider all issues raised across 
Mr Hs two complaints. So Ive considered the handling of Mr Hs claim by NFU and its 
agents throughout the claim.
Claim decisions
Mr H first made a claim after the tenants of his property left it in a poor state after they 
vacated. NFU considered the claim and said the damage caused was due to how the 
tenants had lived, rather than a one-off malicious event. So cover wouldnt be provided 
under the main policy. Mr H hasnt disputed the claim decision. So I wont comment further 
on this element.
However Mr H was looking to recover some of his costs from the tenants, so NFU handed 
this element of the claim over to the company that administer the legal expenses element of 
the policy. This is what I would expect it to do in the circumstances.
The claim was passed to a solicitor who considered the prospects of recovery of the costs 
that Mr H was seeking. They wrote to Mr H to say they considered the prospect to be less 
than 51% so wouldnt progress the claim. 
When assessing this part of the claim, it isnt for me to consider the actions of the solicitor, 
but instead to ensure NFU has acted fairly and reasonably in handling and deciding on the 
claim. I can see the policy wording of the legal expenses cover states as follows:
REASONABLE PROSPECTS
a)For civil cases, the prospects that the INSURED PERSON will recover losses or damages 
(or obtain any other legal remedy that [company name] has agreed to, including an 
enforcement of judgment), make a successful defence or make a successful appeal or 
defence of an appeal, must be at least 51%.
In order to make that assessment wed expect NFU and its agents to consult a solicitor. It 
isnt for me to comment on if the solicitors assessment is correct, just to make sure NFUs 
followed a fair process. I can see that it sought the advice of the solicitor that was appointed 
to the case, to decide what the prospects of success were. So Im satisfied that NFU and its 
agents did enough to reasonably assess the prospects and therefore acted fairly by 
declining this part of the claim. 
Delays
Mr H has complained that NFU and its agents took too long deciding on his claim. He says 
that the delays meant he was no longer able to recover his costs from the tenants. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between NFU, its agents and Mr H and I can see there 
were a number of times where information was provided by Mr H but not passed on in good 
time to the relevant parties. And this slowed down the process by around three months. Mr H 
had lost a significant amount of money in rectifying the problems relating to this claim. So it 
would have been distressing having to wait for longer than necessary to get an answer on 
whether his claim would be successful. Further, it wasnt until Mr H chased the claim that it 
was progressed. Which caused Mr H inconvenience. For these reasons I agree with our 
investigator that NFU should pay an additional £250 compensation on top of the £100 
originally offered. 
Mr H has said the delays to the claim caused him to lose out on the possible recovery of his 
money through the courts. He says NFU should therefore reimburse the costs he has lost 
out on. The solicitors concluded that recovery was unlikely due to the tenants financial 
situation, and not due to the amount of time that had passed. Ive not seen any evidence that 
their financial situation changed within the three months the claim was delayed, so Im not 
persuaded the delay had any impact on the outcome of the claim. So it wouldnt be reasonable to ask NFU to reimburse these costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to pay Mr H £250 compensation in addition to the £100 already offered.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman