DRN-3587152
The complaint
Mr E complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt send him a £100 voucher after he took 
out his life assurance policy.
What happened
Mr E says he was alerted to a deal that if he took out a life policy with Scottish Widows by a 
certain date hed receive a £100 voucher to spend online. Mr E says he applied for the policy 
on 30 October 2021. After his third premium he got in contact with Scottish Widows as he 
hadnt received a voucher. Scottish Widows explained that it withdrew the offer on 30 
October 2021 and that Mr E was ineligible for the offer as he didnt apply until 2 November 
2021. Mr E referred his complaint to this service.
Mr E initially provided a screenshot to show the deal was in existence. Our Investigator 
wasnt persuaded that this evidence showed he applied for the policy on 30 October 2021. 
The Investigator said that the evidence Scottish Widows provided showed the application 
was made on 2 November 2021. So, he didnt think it had done anything wrong in not giving 
Mr E a voucher.
Mr E then submitted a screenshot to show his application was on 30 October 2021, 
alongside an email that he said was retrieved from his junk mail. Scottish Widows responded 
to explain that it didnt send email confirmations at that time. It also provided a screenshot to 
show what Mr E wouldve seen had he applied for the policy when the offer of the voucher 
was live and this differed to what Mr E submitted. It said that Mr E had also applied for a 
policy more recently with the voucher offer but has since cancelled it. The Investigator 
remained persuaded that the evidence suggested Mr E applied for his policy on 2 November 
2021.
Mr E disagreed and believed his evidence was proof he applied for the policy before the 
voucher offer was withdrawn and so asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there was an offer whereby customers could take out a life assurance 
policy with Scottish Widows and get a voucher. And Im satisfied that this offer was 
withdrawn by Scottish Widows and that this was done in line with the terms of the offer. 
Scottish Widows has told us this offer was withdrawn on 30 October 2021. What is in 
dispute, is whether Mr E applied for his policy at this point, or after the offer was withdrawn.
Both Scottish Widows and Mr E have provided evidence to show when the policy was taken 
out. So, I need to decide what I think happened based on this evidence. But as the evidence 
is conflicting I need to determine what is more persuasive.
When Mr E brought his complaint to this service, he said he applied for the policy on 30 
October 2021 and that he asked for it to start on 2 November 2021. When he was asked for 
evidence initially he provided screenshots to show the offer existed but didnt provide 
anything to show when he applied for the policy. He said he couldnt provide evidence to 
show this as Scottish Widows didnt send him an email.
Scottish Widows, when initially asked for evidence, showed us its system data and the 
application data to show the policy was taken out on 2 November 2021. It also showed us a 
copy of the policy documents showing a policy start date of 2 November 2021. The initial 
evidence suggests to me that Mr E applied for his policy on 2 November 2021.
Once our Investigator sent his view, Mr E sent in a screenshot he said he found on his old 
phone which showed a date of 30 October 2021 and it confirmed his policy number and 
application. Scottish Widows said this didnt match with its data which wed already seen to 
show when the policy was applied for. It also provided a screenshot of what Mr E wouldve 
seen and this didnt match to what Mr E provided. I find in this case Im more persuaded by 
the initial evidence that shows Mr E applied for the policy on 2 November 2021  after the 
offer had been withdrawn.
Mr E then forwarded an email that he had located in his junk mail. The email was from 
Scottish Widows and provided details about the policy. The email had a date of 30 October 
2021. Scottish Widows has since confirmed it didnt send email confirmations until February 
2022. Im mindful that this is very conflicting evidence. But when deciding what I think is 
more persuasive Ive considered that Mr E didnt provide this when initially asked. And that 
hed said in his complaint form that he asked for the policy to start on 2 November 2021 and 
this email suggests it started immediately. Mr Es complaint form statement is supported by 
the evidence Scottish Widows sent  the policy started on 2 November 2021. So, Im more 
persuaded that Mr E applied for his policy after the offer for the voucher was withdrawn. So, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
I understand Mr E will be very disappointed with this outcome. And Ive noted that hes since 
told us he didnt ask for his policy to start on 2 November 2021, contrary to what he said in 
his complaint form. Ive also noted that Mr E said he was out of the country on 2 November 
2021 and didnt have access to the internet but hes not sent in anything to show this. Whilst 
I can appreciate the disappointment that he wont receive his voucher, Im not persuaded 
that Mr E applied for his policy whilst the offer applied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman