DRN-4167395
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined part of his claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
Mr M had buildings insurance with Fairmead, which included cover for his outbuildings. He 
claimed under the policy after his home and three of the outbuildings were damaged during 
a named storm.
Fairmead accepted his claim for one of the buildings (Shed 2), but it declined the remaining 
three because it didnt think the storm was the main cause of damage.
Both parties are familiar with the details of the claim and the complaint, so I wont repeat 
them here. Instead, Ill focus on explaining the reasons for my decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
I dont think all four parts of his claim are covered under the policy for the reasons Fairmead 
gave. But I think his claim for one more of the outbuildings should be considered under the 
remaining terms of the policy. Ill explain why.
Ordinarily, when considering a complaint about a declined storm damage claim, Id look at 
whether there was a storm, whether the damage was consistent with that typically caused by 
a storm, and, if so, whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Fairmead has already accepted Mr Ms claim under the storm peril for one of his buildings, 
so Im satisfied that both parties agree there was a storm and that the damage is typical of 
that caused by a storm.
The outstanding issue is that Mr M doesnt think Fairmead shouldve declined the rest of his 
claim. For consistency, Ill address each part of the claim under the same headings as those 
used in previous correspondence.
Shed 1
Fairmead declined Mr Ms claim for the roof damage under the policy exclusion for wear and 
tear and because insufficient evidence was available to determine the condition of the slates.
Mr M said all slates were available to view, albeit on the floor because the storm had blown 
them from the roof.
In making his claim, it was Mr Ms responsibility to show that he suffered an insured loss. 
The photos show his repaired shed roof and the broken slates on the ground. The surveyor 
said:
Not all of the missing slates were available for inspection preventing us from being able to 
validate whether the high winds have exacerbated a previous issue or whether the 
damage is down to the storm alone. The photographs provided only show the slates on 
the floor not the roof at the point of claim and therefore it is not possible to validate storm 
damage.
I can see why Mr M thought photos of the slates on the ground would be sufficient evidence 
that theyd been brought down during the storm, and he said the slates are still available for 
Fairmead to inspect. I think Fairmead was expecting to see evidence of the damaged slates 
on the roof before repairs. But I dont think its unreasonable that Mr M had the roof repaired, 
although it wouldve been helpful for Fairmead to see photos of the damage before the 
repairs were carried out.
Looking at Fairmeads account notes, the outcome of the survey was unclear, such that it 
had to ask its own surveyor to explain the conclusion. The surveyor responded to say that 
the sheds were, already suffering from nail fatigue, natural breakdown of materials, slippage 
and rot and evidence of previous repair works. 
However, in the original report under the heading of Shed One, the surveyor stated:
The wood that the slates are attached to is in relatively good condition but the nails have 
rust and fatigue which may be contributing to the damage. At the front of the shed the 
beans [sic] and the trusses and [sic] all structurally sound.
This tells me that while the condition of the nails may have contributed, the surveyor hasnt 
concluded that they were the main cause of damage. 
Turning to Mr Ms photos of the sheltered side of that same shed and the undamaged upper 
part of the roof, it appears to be in a good state of repair. Fairmeads surveyor confirmed that 
in the original report. 
Based on the evidence, then, I think its more likely than not that the repaired part of the roof 
was previously in a similarly good condition to that of the rest of the roof. Therefore, I dont 
think Fairmead has fairly concluded that it was unable to validate this part of Mr Ms claim, or 
that the wear and tear exclusion applies here. 
Fairmead pointed out that the temporary repairs Mr M carried out caused further damage to 
the roof. In the General Conditions section of the policy, under the heading of Your duty to 
prevent loss or damage, it states:
If loss or damage does occur, you must take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss 
or damage.Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to carry out temporary waterproofing 
repairs before the surveyor inspected the damage around three weeks later.
In respect of Shed 1, Im minded to require Fairmead to reconsider Mr Ms claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy in effect on the date the damage was caused.
Shed 3
Fairmead declined Mr Ms claim for this roof because there was evidence of pre-existing 
damage. I understand Mr M accepts there was damage present before the storm.
For me to uphold this element of Mr Ms complaint, Id need to see evidence that the storm 
was the main cause of the damage.
The photos show that a significant portion of Mr Ms shed roof had slipped. Fairmead 
referred to online images which show roof damage prior to the storm. Ive looked at both sets 
of photos and I agree that there was evidence of damage in broadly the same parts of the 
roof before the storm, including significant tile slippage. Given the extent of the damage, I 
have no reason to doubt that the roof came down during the storm, but I think Fairmead has 
reasonably concluded that the storm simply highlighted existing damage.
I havent seen anything that persuades me Fairmead should reconsider this element of the 
claim, and I note Mr M has since accepted the outcome for this building. I dont plan to 
address this point any further.
Main roof
Fairmead declined this part of Mr Ms claim, again for wear and tear. Mr M doesnt agree that 
the roof slates wouldve slipped without the presence of the storm, so he thinks this part of 
his claim should be covered.
The photos of the main roof show that the damage wasnt as extensive here as on the 
sheds. Some slates are displaced and cracked, mainly those close to the side edge of the 
roof by the chimney, and Mr M had carried out some temporary repairs. But Fairmead said 
the roof had cracks in the capping by the chimney which werent consistent with storm 
damage. In the absence of any contradictory evidence, I think its reasonable that Fairmead 
concluded the storm simply highlighted the already damaged areas of the roof which 
contributed to the tiles slipping in the storm. 
The damage shown on the main roof is consistent with the surveyors report of wear and 
tear, so I think Fairmead fairly declined this part of the claim under the policy terms and 
conditions.
Claim handling
Mr M complained that Fairmead didnt handle his claim well and he feels he provided an 
administrative service to it. 
I accept that Mr M felt Fairmeads service fell short of what he mightve expected. When 
thinking about whether compensation is due, I must look at whether Fairmead caused 
avoidable delays or additional, and therefore avoidable, inconvenience or financial loss. 
Fairmead surveyed the damage just over two weeks after Mr M made his claim. The account 
notes show it looked into the circumstances of the claim and gave its decision around four weeks later. I think the timeframe is reasonable given the four elements of Mr Ms claim to 
consider, the ongoing storms, and the time of year. 
While I understand the whole matter has gone on for longer, thats because Mr M didnt 
agree with Fairmeads decision. So, I cant reasonably say the delay in finalising the claim 
was due to anything Fairmead couldve avoided.
Therefore, I dont think the evidence shows any significant avoidable delays or 
inconvenience which caused Mr M any additional financial loss for which he should be 
compensated.
I said I was intending to require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
reconsider Mr Ms claim for storm damage to the roof of Shed 1 under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy in place at the time the damage happened.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M felt all information had been considered and he accepted my provisional decision.
Fairmead also accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr M and Fairmead agreed to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. Having reconsidered the evidence, Im satisfied that the outcome is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ms claim for storm damage to the roof of Shed 1 under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy in place at the time the damage happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman