DRN-1863522
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the interest rate that has been applied to his savings account by 
Coventry Building Society, trading as the Coventry (CBS).
What happened
Mr K has a variable rate savings account with CBS. CBS says this particular account was 
opened in October 2019. In April 2020 CBS wrote to Mr K to say that it was reducing the 
interest rate on his account. CBS indicated this was due to the Bank of England cutting its 
base rate.
Mr K complained about this decision and noted that, when the Bank of England base rate 
had risen approximately 18 months earlier, the savings rates on previous variable rate 
savings accounts hed held with CBS hadnt increased. So, he didnt think CBS had acted 
fairly.
CBS said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained the Bank of England base 
rate is one of the factors it takes into account when setting interest rates, but the accounts 
Mr K held didnt follow the rate exactly. CBS said it takes into account other factors when 
setting its rates  one being balancing the money it receives from mortgage interest with 
what it pays on savings. And while it hadnt taken the decision lightly, it had decided it 
needed to reduce interest rates in April 2020.
Unhappy with this Mr K asked our service to look into his complaint. Our investigator looked 
into matters but didnt think CBS had done anything wrong. He felt CBS had acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the accounts and ultimately its decision around interest 
rates was a matter of its commercial judgement.
Mr K did not agree with the investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the savings account Mr K held previously  at the 
time the Bank of England base rate last increased  as well as those of the savings account 
he now holds. The terms and product features for both accounts explain that interest is 
variable. But neither indicate that the interest rate payable is a base rate tracker or that it will 
reflect all movements in the Bank of England base rate. And I havent seen any evidence of 
CBS providing Mr K with information to the contrary. So, I dont think CBS was required to 
have the interest rates on these accounts directly follow the Bank of England base rate. And 
I dont think CBS made an error by not increasing the rate on Mr Ks savings previously, 
when the Bank of England base rate increased.
The account information relating to both accounts explain that the interest rates are variable. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions explaining the circumstances under which CBS can vary 
interest rates. They explain that the Bank of England base rate is one of the factors CBS 
may take into account. The terms also set out a number of other potential reasons for a 
change in rates including to respond to market changes, to balance the margins between 
interest paid to savers and charged to borrowers or for any other reason CBS considers 
valid.
CBS has explained that it was a combination of these things  the change in Bank of 
England base rate, the market in general and balancing the margins between interest paid 
and revenue received from interest charged that led to its decision to decrease the interest 
rates on Mr Ks account in April 2020. Its also indicated similar considerations were behind 
its decision not to increase the interest rate previously.
A business is entitled to make commercial decisions around the level of interest it offers on 
savings or charges to borrowers. And this isnt something we would generally interfere with. 
Based on what Ive been told it appears CBS has taken these decisions in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ks accounts. I also note that it appears Mr K was free to exit the 
account without penalty, if he was unhappy with this decision.
So, while I know Mr K feels strongly about this and I can understand his frustration, I cant 
say that CBS has made an error and I dont think it has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman