DRN-3421220
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In March 2021, Mr K received a number of payments into his Monzo account. Monzo 
subsequently received seven fraud notifications from a number of different banks saying that 
the customers had been scammed into making payments from their accounts to Mr K. 
Monzo wrote to Mr K on 5 March 2021 and informed him that it would be closing his account 
with immediate effect. It then went on to register a fraud prevention marker against him. 
After learning that Monzo had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him, Mr K 
complained to Monzo. Monzo looked at Mr Ks complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr K 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns. He didnt think that Monzo had done 
enough to show that Mr K was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Mr K. Monzo disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr K is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Ks account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr K was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr K allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ks complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ks account and that he was complicit in this. 
Its important to note Monzo had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to 
have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr Ks account was 
in receipt of fraudulent funds in March 2021. Monzo received seven fraud notifications and 
indemnity requests, from a number of different banks, explaining that customers had been 
scammed into sending payments to Mr Ks account. So I can understand why Monzo had 
concerns about the usage on Mr Ks account. However, as Ive already explained, this in 
itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a customer. Monzo also has 
to produce sufficient evidence to show Mr K was complicit in fraud. And I dont think that it 
has done that here.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by setting out that Monzo doesnt appear to have 
carried out any sort of investigation into Mr Ks actions, once it received the notification from 
the third-party bank. It simply sent Mr K a letter saying that it would be closing his account. 
So Monzo didnt give Mr K any opportunity to explain his side of the story. And I have to 
question how it could possibly have assessed his knowledge and intention before it recorded 
the fraud marker against him - arguably this in itself is unfair.
Mr K has, since learning about the marker, explained that he saw an advert about learning to 
trade with crypto-currency posted by someone on a well-known messaging app. He said that 
the advert indicated that this person was involved in crypto-currency so he decided to 
respond to it as this was something he was interested in. Mr K says he was asked how old 
he was and as he was only 17, which was too young to carry out crypto-currency trading, he 
was told to get in contact when he turned 18 in March 2021. 
Mr K says he got in contact once he turned 18 and was told to download a crypto-currency 
app to get started. He was also told to provide his account number and sort code to be able 
to make the transfers. Mr K says he provided this because he didnt think that anything could 
go wrong, presumably because he didnt have any funds in his account. He says that he 
started to get worried when a large payment for £600 arrived in his account. But he was told 
by the person who placed the advert to transfer the funds to another account. These 
transfers continued and he was told he had to pass on the funds, or reimburse the person 
who arranged things, himself. 
Finally, Mr K says he felt had to pass on the funds because the person who placed the 
advert said they knew where he lived. Mr K has provided some messages from the 
messaging app to corroborate what he said. Our adjudicator found Mr Ks version of events 
plausible and he thought that Mr K was unwittingly involved in fraud, rather than it being the 
case that he was complicit in it. 
Monzo says this isnt the case because Mr K was a money mule and as a result, victims lost 
money. In its view, there was no evidence of impersonation. The device used to make the 
payments was the same as the one used to set up the account. Furthermore, it considered 
that as Mr Ks account was dormant from opening until the reported activity, it was likely he 
opened this account for it to be used to receive funds that hed then transfer on to someone 
else potentially for payment.   Ive thought about what Monzo has said. It isnt in dispute that Mr K was used as a money 
mule or that there was no impersonation in this case. But the mere fact that fraudulent funds 
passed through an account doesnt on its own mean that it is fair and reasonable to record a 
fraud marker against a customer. Mr K has always said that he made the transfers from his 
account. So I dont think that the device used being the same as the one used when the 
account was opened provides anything new or anything that contradicts Mr Ks version of 
events. Equally, Mr K has said that he was told that he had to wait until he turned 18, before 
he could be involved in crypto-currency trading. In my view, this accounts for the lack of 
activity on Mr Ks account until March 2021 as this was when Mr K turned 18.   
More importantly it is Monzos responsibility to demonstrate that Mr K was knowingly part of 
the fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Monzo needs to have relevant and 
rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. In other words, a 
reasonable suspicion that Mr K knew fraud would take place when he provided his account 
details to the person who placed the crypto-currency trading advert on the messaging app. 
Simply pointing out that fraudulent activity took place  especially where this isnt in dispute - 
just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as the facts 
and circumstances of this case appear to support Mr Ks version of events being plausible.   
Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Mr K made a financial gain either as the 
fraudulent funds in question were transferred, in full, elsewhere. So Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr K benefitted from the fraudulent funds and I would question why hed 
knowingly participate in a fraud (as Monzo appears to be suggesting) where he didnt stand 
to benefit.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Monzo had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr K. As this is the case, I think that it was 
unfair for Monzo Bank to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
So Im upholding Mr Ks complaint and Monzo needs to remove any fraud markers it has 
recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Monzo Bank Limited should 
remove any fraud markers it has recorded against Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman