DRN-2769181
The complaint
 Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) carried out a 
poor standard of repair that caused further damage to his property, after a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
 
What happened
 Mr C contacted Admiral as he had a loss of hot water. It sent an engineer who inspected the 
immersion heater and said it needed to be replaced. He returned a few days later to carry 
out the repair. 
Mr C describes how he heard the engineer banging loudly, and he wasnt sure if this was a 
professional way to carry out the repair. The engineer managed to remove the immersion 
from the tank. This caused water to escape from it, causing a leak, that went through the 
ceiling and damaged Mr Cs property. 
Mr C said that the engineer mopped up some of the water and left saying that he would 
return the next day, after obtaining some parts. The engineer didnt return and Mr C 
contacted Admiral about this and to raise a complaint about the damage caused to his 
property as a result of the leak, which he blamed the engineer for. 
Admiral said that the parts required were obsolete so the repair couldnt be completed. It 
said that a new cylinder was required instead. But due to the policy terms this wouldnt be 
covered. As to the leak, Admiral offered to send the contractors back. But Mr C refused as 
he had lost faith in them. Mr C also complained to Admiral about the unprofessional manner 
of one of its advisors.
In its final response, Admiral said that it couldnt agree with Mr Cs complaint points. Admiral 
concluded that the advisor had been professional throughout, even when Mr C swore.  
Regarding the poor workmanship, Admiral relied on the terms and conditions of the policy in 
that the engineer had try to carry out a temporary repair, but the water tank was very old and 
rusty. The bracket on the water tank fell off as it was so corroded, and a temporary repair 
wasnt successful because of this. It denied that the engineer had caused the leak. Finally, 
Admiral said that because there had been a failed/missed appointment, it would pay 
compensation of £25 for the trouble and upset this caused.  
Mr C didnt agree with Admiral and spoke to a claims manager. Following this, Admiral 
increased its offer to £165 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, which 
would bring the entire claim cost, to the policy limit of £500. Mr C was unhappy about this 
outcome not least due to the amount of damage caused to his property, so referred a 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately upheld it. He said that the 
engineer didnt drain all the water from the system and didnt attempt to fully soak it up. This 
caused some damage to Mr Cs property. But Mr C shouldve mitigated the damage by 
repairing the leak, which he didnt do. So, it would be impossible to know how much of the 
damage could be attributed to the engineers repair.  He also said that it was unfair to blame 
the engineer for not being able to repair the badly rusted water tank.
He did recognise that this experience would have been distressing for Mr C and 
recommended that Admiral pay a further £150 for the trouble and upset that it had caused. 
Making a total of £315 compensation. Admiral accepted the recommendation of our 
investigator. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator as he believed that:
The engineer wasnt experienced enough and was ill-equipped to carry out the 
repair.
That Admiral shouldve advised that the tank should be replaced initially and then 
none of the damage to his property wouldve happened. 
Mr C confirmed that he would pay for the tank (as this wasnt covered under the 
policy) but not the other items that were damaged as a result of the engineers 
actions.
He reiterated his vulnerabilities and that he felt that Admiral and our investigator 
hadnt been empathic to his needs.
He requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 17 March 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
16 April 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents which show that Mr C held a home insurance policy 
with an add on home emergency cover. It provided that Admiral would attend and carry out a 
temporary repair if there was an emergency that occurred at Mr Cs home. Both parties 
accept that there was an emergency at Mr Cs home, and Im satisfied that this was the 
case, as he had experienced a loss of hot water. 
Admiral sent an engineer to fix the issue and he diagnosed that the immersion was faulty 
and needed to be replaced. Admiral said that the water tank that housed the immersion, was 
in a poor state in that it was rusty and very old  which was confirmed by the engineer who 
attended. Admiral also provided some photos that showed rust on the water tank. Having 
reviewed those photographs and the engineers report, I am satisfied that rust was present 
on the water tank. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and in the general exclusions it provides:What is not covered: Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually 
including wear and tear, wet and dry rot, damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric 
conditions, due to settlement, or any due to mildew, rust, corrosion, birds, insects, 
woodworm, pests or vermin.
So, I think that any damage caused by rust wouldnt be covered. Nevertheless, the engineer 
decided to continue with the repair by initially attempting to drain the tank, but not turning off 
the stopcock. Mr C said that at one point the engineer asked him to help him with the repair 
and asked for a hammer. Admiral has accepted that the engineer used the hammer to 
remove some rusty bolts. But by doing this, Admiral accepted that it caused the tank to leak, 
with water dripping through to Mr Cs ceiling, causing damage to this, his carpet as well as 
other items in his property. 
The engineer attempted to mop up the excess water and told Mr C that he had stemmed the 
flow of water. But Mr C said that the engineer didnt manage to fully stop the leak. Admiral 
said that the engineer attempted to carry out a temporary repair, in line with the policy terms. 
But due to the poor state of the water tank, no amount of care wouldve avoided the outcome 
(namely the leak) and any engineer wouldve encountered this issue. So, it wasnt due to 
poor workmanship. 
Mr C said that if Admiral were aware that the tank was in such disrepair, then a repair 
shouldnt have been attempted at all. And, Mr C wouldve organised to have the tank 
replaced, by an independent engineer. 
I think it was clear from the photos and the engineers report that the tank was in a poor 
state. The policy terms dont cover for rust. Im satisfied that the engineer didnt ensure that 
the water tank was fully drained, nor did he ensure that the stopcock (which he described as 
also being rusted) was turned off. I think it wouldve been reasonable to have refused the 
repair and advised (as was done later) that a new tank was required. As this wasnt done, Mr 
Cs property became damaged.
I have next considered whether Mr C should have carried out the repairs in order to mitigate 
the loss. Mr C said that he attempted to soak up the leak with towels but that he didnt want 
to touch the repairs as he had made a complaint about the engineers work. Additionally, he 
couldnt afford to carry out the repairs to his damaged property. But he wouldve paid for the 
tank to be replaced. 
I think that Mr C took steps to try and mitigate the damage by soaking up the water. And, it 
was reasonable for him to think that Admiral wouldve wanted to inspect the damage before 
carrying out repairs. 
Given the circumstances, I think its fair for Admiral to put matters right. I think that Admiral 
should pay for the cost of the repairs to the damaged ceiling, damaged stairs and 
replacement carpet. Regarding the compensation, I am satisfied that this wouldve been a 
very stressful time for Mr C and I think a fair level of compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused, would be £150 in total. 
Putting things right
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision. So, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
  My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
To put matters right, Admiral Insurance Company (Gibraltar) Limited pay for the cost of 
repairs to Mr Cs property namely the ceiling, stairs and replacement carpet. 
To pay Mr C £150 compensation in total, for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral Insurance Company (Gibraltar) Limited should also pay interest on the amounts 
above, at a rate of 8% simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral Insurance Company (Gibraltar) Limited to 
deduct tax from the interest payment referred above, Admiral Insurance Company (Gibraltar) 
Limited must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax they deduct if he asks them for 
one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman