DRN-3295849
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain that they were mis-sold a fixed sum loan agreement by 
Work Work Limited.
What happened
Mr M and Ms S have said that they were misled into believing the loan agreement they 
entered in 2015 did not require them to repay the money borrowed. They say that, rather 
than this being a loan, they understood the money received was in the form of a government 
grant which did not require repaying. The loan was taken out to part finance the purchase of 
solar panels and formed part of a Green Deal Plan. 
Mr M and Ms S complained to Work Work after they enquired about changing energy 
supplier and were informed about the payments they were making toward the loan via their 
existing energy supplier. Work Work responded, saying that it had investigated and could 
assure Mr M and Ms S that they would never be able to get the solar panels for free. 
Mr M and Ms S were not satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service. 
However, our Investigator was not persuaded the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Mr M and Ms S were provided with the information that would have shown them they were 
taking out a loan. As Mr M and Ms S remained unhappy, their complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, Work Work has not provided this service with any information. It says it 
doesnt have any data on its system from 2015. As such, I have had to rely on the 
information provided by Mr M and Ms S.  
Mr M and Ms S have been able to provide some testimony about the events. However, this 
has not been particularly definitive. This isnt surprising and the sale was some years ago, 
and memories do fade over time. It is not clear whether there were one or two meetings at 
their home with Work Works sales staff. Ms S recalls being told she would be given a grant 
to pay for around half of the purchase cost of the panels. She has said she recalls signing 
some paperwork but has said she wasnt given the opportunity to read everything properly. 
Mr M and Ms S have provided some of the paperwork they were given at the time though. 
And a number of these are quite clear that the agreement being entered is a loan and that 
the money provided under the arrangement needs to be repaid. 
Mr M and Ms S were given a pre-contract credit information document which refers to the 
agreement and a fixed sum loan agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
This confirms the amount of credit as £4,000 and says it will run until the amounts which are 
required to be repaid, are repaid in full. It says that repayments are payable by the bill payer 
and are added to their electricity bill, and sets out the daily rate for the repayments. It 
confirms the total amount Mr M and Ms S would have to pay was £11,251.87 and sets out 
the rates of interest that are applicable, saying the APR is based on the assumption that the 
loan is kept for the full term and that repayments are not altered. It also confirms the possible 
consequences of missing repayments.
Another document provided is titled explanation of your credit agreement. This explains 
how a Green Deal loan differs from a normal loan, saying amongst other things: 
The loan is part of an arrangement for making energy efficiency improvements to the 
Property which is repaid via the electricity bill Repayments of the loan are made by 
the Bill Payer if someone else take over responsibility for paying the electricity bill 
for the Property, they will become responsible for making the loan repayments. 
This document also confirms the details of the repayments, explaining that further 
information about the loan and repayments can be found in the credit agreement and 
pre-contract credit information. The document also gives warnings about what might happen 
if repayments are missed.
Ms S has said that she and Mr M were not provided with an opportunity to read these 
documents before signing them. But it does seem they were provided with a cooling off 
period and that the installation of the solar panels took place some time later. 
Given the paperwork they were provided also already had the details of the agreement 
printed out, it seems more likely that they were given these at a second meeting rather than 
there being only one. So, whilst the information provided prior to entering an agreement is 
likely to be more significant in forming an individuals understanding of what has been 
agreed, I am not persuaded Mr M and Ms S were pressured into a situation or agreement 
that they didnt understand or could not exit.
I should say that the funding for Green Deal loans is made available through a 
government-backed scheme and, whilst we cant be sure what Mr M and Ms S were told at 
the time, it is possible that they believed the involvement of the Government meant that they 
didnt have to repay the money they were being provided. But, from the documents, I 
consider it was clear that Mr M and Ms S were entering a loan agreement and that they 
needed to repay the amount borrowed. And I havent been provided with any persuasive 
evidence that Work Work told Mr M and Ms S something which was different to that set out 
on the paperwork. 
Taking into account all of the evidence Mr M and Ms S have provided, as well as my 
understanding of the circumstances, I am not persuaded the loan was mis-sold to them in 
the manner they have suggested
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman