DRN-3922220
The complaint
Mr C complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (Marks and Spencer) has 
reduced his credit limit unfairly on his credit card. 
What happened
In April 2022, Mr C left the country for 3 months. As he had no intention of using his Marks 
and Spencer credit card during the time he was away, he didnt look at his on-line banking 
app or have access to any of the statements that were sent to his home address in the UK.
During this time, letters and statements were sent to his home, informing of a payment that 
had been made in March 2022 for an automated annual renewal. As he was out of the 
country, he missed these letters and two months of payment requests. He contacted Marks 
and Spencer when he returned, having seen the correspondence and explained what had 
happened. Marks and Spencer agreed to waive the late fees associated with the missed 
payments as a good will gesture and set up a direct debit to ensure this wouldnt happen 
again in the future. 
Mr C has told us that a few months later, when he tried to use his credit card, he was told he 
had insufficient funds available. He said that this was the first time he found out that his 
credit limit had been reduced from £15,000 to £1,000 due to the previously missed 
payments. 
Mr C was unhappy with this reduction in credit and complained to Marks and Spencer. He 
said he had always been a good customer and with the exception of the recent missed 
payments, which were due to exceptional circumstances, he had proved to be a reliable, 
long-standing customer. Marks and Spencer said that it was its policy to reduce credit limits 
when missed payments had occurred and that it wouldnt be changing its mind. It said that 
he could ask for his credit limit to be reassessed in 6 months time.
Mr C was unhappy with this, so brought the complaint to us. He also said that he was 
unhappy with the service that was provided while Marks and Spencer reviewed his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but said Marks and Spencer hadnt done 
anything wrong. He explained it is a commercial decision and is also covered in the terms 
and conditions.
As Mr C remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Having looked at the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr C may disagree with the rationale given for the reduction of his credit limit, 
particularly since he says he had a good payment history and affordability isnt an issue. But 
Marks and Spencer are entitled to exercise its commercial judgement on how to operate its 
business, including making decisions on their risk appetite and lending policies. Although I 
understand why Mr C is frustrated with the situation, our service cant tell Marks and 
Spencer who it should lend to or how much it should lend. A lending decision is a legitimate 
use of its commercial judgement which we cant interfere with. Ive also looked at the terms 
and conditions of Mr Cs credit card account which Mr C agreed to when taking out the credit 
card. This explains that if payments are not made, a reduction in available credit may occur.
Mr C told us that he wasnt aware of the reduction in the credit limit until a few months later, 
when he tried to use his card. However, I can see from the information provided from the 
business that a letter was sent out to his home address informing him of the change. Ive 
also listened to the call Mr C made to Marks and Spencer when he returned to the UK and 
discovered the missed payments. In this call, Mr C confirms to the call handler that he has 
received the letter informing him of the credit reduction. While its possible that Mr C may 
have presumed his previous credit limit was being reinstated, this wasnt further discussed.
Mr C feels that the consequences for a small oversight of this nature have been extreme 
under the circumstances and I can understand his frustrations around this. I can see that a 
genuine mistake occurred which resulted in the missed payments. Although I am not in a 
position to instruct Marks and Spencer to take further action, I did ask if it would be willing to 
do anything as a good will gesture. It explained that all of its customers get treated the same 
way and that is how it ensures it is being fair to all of its customers. 
Mr C has also commented on the customer service that was provided to him during the 
complaint process. He has suggested that there should be a more effective appeal process 
for policy decisions that are felt to be unjust. While I appreciate this has been a stressful and 
frustrating time, I think Marks and Spencer have dealt with the complaint appropriately. And 
the fact he has been able to utilise our service for a further review should hopefully reassure 
him that all of his comments and thoughts on the matter have been taken into consideration.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was hoping for, but I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Marks and Spencer to take any further action here. I think it is 
entitled to reduce Mr Cs credit limit and inform the credit reference agencies of the missed 
payments. I hope that Mr C will understand, given what Ive explained.
Marks and Spencer have confirmed that as more than 6 months has passed since the limit 
was reduced, Mr C is now eligible to have a review to see if the credit limit can be raised. Mr 
C can speak directly to Marks and Spencer regarding this if he wishes. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman