DRN-3212919
The complaint
Mr M complains Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) acted unfairly in its assessment of his 
claim.
What happened
Mr M is a member of his employers group personal accident scheme, underwritten by 
Chubb. In March 2020, he suffered an accident at work and injured his leg. Chubb accepted 
the claim and paid benefits under the temporary disablement section of the policy. This 
cover provides a benefit of 75% of the insureds weekly wage, for up to 52 weeks. 
Mr M was continually signed off work by his GP following his accident at work, and he 
provided copies of his fit notes to Chubb. Later in 2020, Chubb asked Mr M to give his 
consent to obtain his medical records from his GP. Chubb said it wanted to do this to 
understand why Mr M was still unable to work and to ensure that this was still related to the 
accident. 
Mr M told Chubb he was unhappy with the wording of the consent form, which referred to all 
medical records. Chubb agreed to amend the wording of the consent to authorise Chubb 
to have access to my medical notes in relation to my current leg injury only. However Mr M 
said he still thought the request was invasive and had generated mistrust. And he 
questioned whether it was in line with data protection principles. 
Chubb logged Mr Ms comments as a complaint. And in response, said it had used its 
standard consent form for requesting permission to obtain medical records to assess a 
claim. It said it didnt think it had done anything wrong in using this form, but it said it had 
agreed to amend the wording of the consent to reflect that this was specific to the medical 
history surrounding Mr Ms leg injury: authorise Chubb to have access to my medical 
notes in relation to my current leg injury only. 
Chubb said as Mr M had still not provided consent for it to obtain the medical evidence it 
needed to confirm the claim still met the policy terms, it was unable to progress it any further. 
Mr M also complained about Chubbs request for a fit note he provided to be signed by the 
GP, alongside other customer service issues. Chubb responded to this complaint, and said it 
thought its request for the certificate to be signed was in line with the policy terms requiring 
Mr M to provide certificates, information and evidence as reasonably required. 
Unhappy with Chubbs response, Mr M brought his complaints to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Chubb had acted 
unfairly. 
Chubb made no further comment on the investigators view, however Mr M disagreed. He 
said he wanted Chubb to pay him compensation. Chubb had already paid compensation in 
regard to a deadline it had set around the claim which it later agreed was unfair. However Mr 
M said he thought Chubb should also pay compensation for having originally requested a 
broader consent for his medical records, and asking him to get his GP certificates signed.   
The investigator put these points to Chubb and asked if it would make any offer of 
compensation. Chubb said it still didnt think it had done anything wrong in respect of 
requiring the signature on the fit notes and the content of its original consent form. And it 
declined to offer any compensation. 
Mr M asked from a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Chubb has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Firstly, I should set out, if havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this 
doesnt mean I havent considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, 
but instead Im concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended 
by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
I should also clarify that Mr M has made more than one complaint to Chubb, with several 
complaint points. Ive focussed my investigation specifically on the points which remain in 
dispute, which Mr M highlighted as being of concern to him when he brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Having considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Chubb has acted unfairly. 
And I say this for the following reasons. 
Chubb originally accepted Mr Ms personal accident claim based on the information and 
evidence he provided. It later said due to Mr M having been unable to work for several 
months following his injury, it wanted to review medical evidence beyond the fit notes, to 
ensure Mr M still met the terms of cover and that no exclusions would apply. This action 
is in line with the terms of the policy and I dont think it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances of this claim. Although the GP certificates reflected that Mr M was still 
unfit for work, these didnt provide any further detail about his ongoing condition and 
symptoms and how these related to his original accident. 
Mr M was asked to sign a consent form, allowing Chubb to request medical records and 
reports from his GP. And this consent form also made Mr M aware of his rights, including 
the option to see a copy of any report before it was sent to Chubb. Chubb has said that 
although the form referenced all medical records it would limit its information request to 
the records relevant to the claim, and I accept this. I think the consent request was 
appropriate and in line with that I would expect to see from an insurer in this scenario. 
And I dont think it necessary that Chubb should have been more specific in the consent 
request from the outset. I say this because although the claim related to an injury to Mr 
Ms leg, it was relevant to the claim for Chubb to understand why Mr M was still absent 
from work. And it was possible that his continued absence may have been linked to a 
separate illness, which may not have been covered by the policy. After Mr M raised concerns about being asked to give consent in respect of all medical 
records Chubb agreed to change the wording to limit this consent to the records specific 
to the injury related to the claim. This isnt something I would necessarily have directed 
Chubb to do, but I think it was reasonable and demonstrates to me that Chubb was 
acting fairly and wanted to reach a way forward for Mr Ms claim. 
Im aware Mr M has concerns about whether or not Chubbs original medical consent 
form complies with data protection rules. Ultimately, its not for me to make a finding on 
whether or not Chubb has complied with the General Data Protection Regulations. Thats 
a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). And Im aware Mr M has 
already raised his concerns directly with that body. 
After Chubb amended its request to specify records only related to the leg injury, Mr M 
still didnt agree to provide his consent for Chubb to contact his GP. So Im persuaded it 
was fair for Chubb to cease paying the claim at that time and to put it on hold. 
Mr M supplied regular GP certificates to Chubb in support of his claim. Some of these fit 
notes were signed, whilst others were not. When Mr M provided fit notes which were 
unsigned, Chubb asked that Mr M obtain signed versions from his GP. As the claimant it 
was Mr Ms responsibility to provide medical evidence of his continued claim. Its not an 
unusual requirement for a GP certificate to be signed, and there is a set space on the 
certificate for the GPs signature. From the insurers perspective, I think the presence of 
the GP signature offers some validation as to the authenticity of the document. And so I 
dont think Chubbs request for the medical certificates to be signed was unreasonable.
Mr M told our investigator that he thinks Chubb should have made reasonable 
adjustments for him around the request for the certificates to be signed, due to both the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and the fact that his injury was to his leg, which made getting to the 
GP surgery difficult. However, Ive not seen evidence that Mr M asked Chubb to make 
any adjustments at the time which were denied. 
In an email to Chubb in March 2021 Mr M said if you wish me to expose myself to 
further risk in the pandemic and give additional burden to the NHS I can get it signed, let 
me know. However Ive not seen anything which indicates a request for a reasonable 
adjustment as an alternative to having the certificates signed. 
Mr M has since said that the GP could have signed the certificates retrospectively once 
the pandemic was over. Ive thought about this, but I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect the insurer to continue to make claim payments prior to receiving the verification it 
needed. Chubb has said, had Mr M asked it to make an adjustment so that he didnt 
have to visit his GP so often, it could have accepted the certificates on a more infrequent 
basis, such as every two to three months, although this would also have impacted the 
regularity of the claim payments. And I think this would have been a reasonable option to 
have provided to Mr M. However as stated above, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M 
asked Chubb to make such an adjustment. And so Ive still not been persuaded that 
Chubb acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Chubb European Group SE. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman