DRN-2130807
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly closed his credit card account 
and has reported incorrect information about his account.
What happened
Mr O held a credit card account with HSBC. HSBC says in March and April 2019 Mr O 
missed his minimum payments and following a conversation in May, he explained he would 
get the account back up to date within the following weeks. As a result, HSBC said it agreed 
to refund associated late fees. Mr O did bring the account back up to date shortly after, but 
without Mr Os knowledge HSBC closed the account. 
Mr O discovered the account had been closed in March 2020 after the card was declined in 
a shop. And he said hed never missed any previous payments. HSBC apologised for not 
communicating the closure to him and offered £250 in compensation. But it said the two 
missed payments reported to the credit reference agencies from March/April were accurate.
Our investigator looked into what happened. Following a discussion with HSBC, it agreed to 
reinstate the account. The investigator said this, alongside the compensation was fair. And 
she said based on all of the evidence provided, including paperwork, records, and Mr Os 
own comments to HSBC previously, it had accurately recorded two months of arrears. 
Mr O disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in line with our investigators previous 
assessment. HSBC has agreed it shouldnt have closed Mr Os account when it did. And its 
re-instated this as a result. Its also awarded him £250 for the inconvenience of not telling 
him whats happened. 
From what Ive seen, the impact of this mistake on Mr O doesnt appear significant. I say this 
as the account closure seemingly went unnoticed for almost a year. Mr O has mentioned a 
loss of business and that he was without funds to pay for items when he needed to. But hes 
provided nothing to support this. So in the circumstances Im satisfied the £250 HSBC has 
offered is fair and reasonable.
Mr O has also said he never went into arrears in March and April 2019. And hes provided 
documentation that he says supports this. Our investigator has previously discussed these 
documents in detail and put simply, the information he has provided doesnt persuade me 
that these payments were ever met. I also cant ignore his own admission of missing these 
payments in previous conversations with HSBC. 
So for these reasons Im satisfied HSBC has recorded these missed payments accurately 
and in line with its obligations. And Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
Following our involvement HSBC UK Bank Plc has agreed to re-instate Mr Os credit card 
account, alongside its existing offer of a compensatory payment of £250. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc must pay Mr O £250 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman