DRN-4287774
The complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Limited wont compensate him for a damaged suitcase.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr K used his NewDay credit card to pay just over £110 for flight tickets 
purchased from travel company. Mr K travelled and when he received his suitcase at the 
destination he discovered that his suitcase had been damaged. The airport desk 
acknowledged there was damage to his suitcase. Mr K contacted the travel company who 
offered him either a £50 credit or asked him to provide an independent report about the 
damage. Mr K complained about this but didnt get anywhere with the travel company. So he 
complained to NewDay.
NewDay looked into the matter and raised a chargeback with the travel company. The travel 
company responded and NewDay considered the travel companys defence and decided the 
chargeback no longer had a reasonable prospect of success. It also considered Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) and concluded that as Mr K hadnt got the 
independent report about the damage as required in the agreed terms and conditions it 
didnt have to do anything further.
Mr K didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think NewDay had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ks 
request for compensation for the damaged suitcase. Mr K didnt agree. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the travel company, which isnt a 
financial services provider and doesnt fall within my remit regarding chargeback or Section 
75. Whatever the issues there maybe with the travel company and just because Mr K says 
he has lost out due to his damaged suitcase, it doesnt necessarily follow that NewDay has 
treated Mr K unfairly or that it should refund him. And this decision is solely about how 
NewDay treated Mr K. I hope this point is sufficiently clear.
Theres no dispute that Mr K used his NewDay card to purchase the flight tickets which 
included the facility of checked in luggage. So Im satisfied this transaction was appropriately 
charged to Mr Ks account with NewDay.
could NewDay challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute regarding a transaction, as Mr K 
does here, NewDay (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think NewDay couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr K didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusion on this issue that Ive already set out.
NewDay is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And if NewDay takes the chargeback as far as it can 
then the scheme provider (not NewDay) will then make an independent determination on the 
matter. So NewDay isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not, when 
going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if 
it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Here NewDay did raise a chargeback and the travel company responded.  The test here is 
did NewDay fairly consider the travel companys response when considering whether to 
continue with the chargeback. In the response to the chargeback the travel company has 
provided evidence showing that Mr K took the flight and the flight operated as planned. It 
also points to its request to Mr K to provide an independent report and its offer of a £50 
credit to him.
Chargeback is simple way of disputing transactions operated by the card scheme and not 
NewDay. It operates through standardised reason codes for disputes around transactions 
such as being double charged, refunds not being processed or goods and services not as 
described. Here Mr K is disputing damage to the wheel of his suitcase which he has 
evidenced through photographs. However Chargeback doesnt cover such situations and 
there are no reason codes applicable here or relating to consequential losses. So I dont 
think NewDay treated Mr K unfairly here by deciding based on the evidence provided by the 
travel company that Mr Ks chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the travel company. Ive 
considered the required relationship as set out in Section 75 and consider that it is met here 
for the provision of flights. The CCA also requires the single cash price item be over £100 
and less than £30,000 and Im satisfied Mr K can make a Section 75 claim here.
Once these requirements are met then Mr K can hold NewDay to a like claim as to that hed 
have with the travel company through legal means, for example if he was to take the travel 
company to the courts. And similarly to such court processes the onus is on Mr K to show 
that there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation as it would be him 
bringing such a claim.
The travel companys terms and conditions which Mr K agreed to when booking the tickets 
required Mr K, envisages such events as damaged luggage, and addresses this in the 
contract agreed. It says in the event of damage to his luggage, passengers such as Mr K are 
to organise the repair of the luggage and provide the receipts of such repairs to the travel 
company. In the event of the damage being beyond repair then an independent report of the 
damage including details of the value and brand of the items was required under these 
terms. These are the terms Mr K agreed to when purchasing the flights, and that he agreed 
to them is important here.Mr K hasnt conformed to this requirement of the contract in terms of getting the suitcase 
repaired or independently inspected as agreed in the contract. He has pointed to the airport 
desk acknowledgement of the damage and said that the travel company and hence NewDay 
should compensate him. However NewDay has pointed to his non-conformance with the 
terms of the contract and noted that the travel company made an offer of £50 voucher and 
explained if he didnt want that he could put forward an independent inspection to ascertain 
the cost of repairs or replacement. 
It is clear that Mr K has evidenced the damage with photographs and the airports 
documentation on the matter. But that is not contended here.
NewDay is entitled to rely on the same defences as the travel company would in such a like 
claim. And here it has pointed to the voucher and how to take the matter forward under the 
agreed contract. But Mr K hasnt done this. Accordingly Im not persuaded NewDay has 
treated him unfairly or caused Mr K any loss. If Mr K submits such a report now to the travel 
company then Im sure it would consider it. And if Mr K has disposed of the damage luggage 
and such a report is now impossible, NewDay isnt responsible for the decision to make that 
disposal.
For the sake of completeness Ill deal with some of Mr Ks other arguments. Mr K said the 
travel company is forcing him to use their services by offering a voucher. This isnt the case. 
It offered a voucher or the choice of getting a report. Mr Ks decision to go down neither 
route, nor to accept either option isnt the responsibility of NewDay.
Mr K says he did get an independent report, by pointing to the document from Airport 
Handling Services. Clearly this notes damage, but it doesnt describe costs of repair or 
replacement. It falls short of what Id describe as an acceptable report fitting the 
requirements of the travel companys contract here.
Mr K says the investigator said that S75 doesnt apply. Thats not the case, what the 
investigator and my position is, is that he hasnt done enough under the contract to show 
that NewDay should do anything more here or that it has treated him unfairly.
Mr K says that the terms of this contract meant that hed have to either get a report in his 
destination country or bring back the defective luggage to have it assessed in the UK. In 
essence that is one of the terms of the contract he agreed to. So he is correct in that regard. 
And as Ive described he could still provide such a report if he still has the damaged luggage.
In summary I think that Mr K hasnt lost out here due to what NewDay did. I think NewDay 
made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any further. And I dont think it could be 
held responsible under S75 either considering Mr K didnt get a report as required. So I dont 
think I can fairly require NewDay to refund Mr K for the luggage as there is no persuasive 
evidence of the cost of repair or a report showing the value and brand of the damaged 
luggage. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr K wants to read. But I dont think NewDay 
treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman