DRN-3248682
The complaint
Mr H complains that Plus500UK Ltd incorrectly closed his Bita Crypto Volatility Index 
positions in his Contract for Differences (CFD) account following a margin call, triggered by a 
manifest error in pricing.
What happened
Mr H held a CFD trading account with Plus500. On 26 February 2020 at 22.59, he says he 
was online when he watched the Bita Crypto Volatility Index price suddenly moved to show a 
500% increase within a second. He says the price remained this way from 23:00 to 02:21.
 
Mr H says this impacted his positions ending, 625, 277, 651 and 128. They were all closed 
at a loss due to margin calls which he says would not have happened if the price was 
correct. He says had it not been for the incorrect pricing set, the limit order he had set on 
some of his positions at $82 would have been achieved. As a resolution he would like his 
reimbursement to be calculated on this basis.
Plus500 say the positions closed due to a margin call but say this was due to a manifest 
error. They acknowledge that his positions were affected by the erroneous prices and 
credited his account with $515.74. They say this reflects the amount in Mr Hs account 
before the manifest error occurred. 
In response, Mr H says he doesnt accept Plus500s explanation of it being a manifest error. 
He also doesnt agree that the $515.74 was the amount that should have been refunded as 
they should have settled at what was the best price during that period and he thinks this 
should be $82. They didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that his role in this complaint was to consider if Plus500 had done 
anything wrong. He concluded that they had acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement, the settlement offered was fair and wasnt persuaded by the 
arguments Mr H put forward. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not mean any discourtesy in not commenting on each point individually and I would like 
to re-assure Mr H that Ive considered all communications in this complaint, including all post 
view communications with the investigator. Having done so, I am not upholding this 
complaint. I will explain why.
It is not for this service to prescribe how a firm should run its business or operate its 
services. Our remit mainly relates to addressing alleged wrongdoings by firms and any 
detriments or loss allegedly associated to a complaint. The existence of a manifest error is 
what is disputed here and the incorrect price which resulted in a margin call. Also, Ive 
looked at what actions followed after the manifest error and considered if there is any 
wrongdoing on Plus500s part which has caused a loss.
Looking at the evidence thats been provided in addition to the information Mr H himself has 
given us, we have also been provided with a copy of a notice issued by the third party 
liquidity provider for this instrument. The notice dated 27 February 2020 says:
We would like to inform that, between the 26th of February at 23:00 UTC and the 
27th of February at 02:21 UTC, the BITA Crypto Adjusted Realized Volatility Index 
(BCRV85) was disseminated by BITA with incorrect values due to a calculation error. 
All erroneous data will be removed from public areas, including BITAs website, and 
restated values will be provided. Additional information on BITAs Index Correction 
and Recalculation Policy can be found on www bitadata com/qovernance.
I am satisfied that the Bita Crypto Volatility Index was affected by a manifest error on 26 
February 2020 between 23:00 and 02:21 on 27 February 2020. This continued into 27 
February 2020 when Mr Hs positions had all been closed.
Mr H agreed to the terms and conditions of the CFD account. Clause 15.13 of the terms 
says: 
Without derogating from Section 10.4, if, prior to the acceptance of your offer to 
open or close a Transaction, we become aware that any of the factors set out in 
Section 15.14 have not been met, [Plus500] reserve the right to reject your offer 
outright. If we have, nevertheless, already opened or closed a Transaction prior to 
becoming aware that a factor set out in Section 15.14 has not been met, [Plus500] 
may, acting reasonably, either treat such a Transaction as void from the outset or 
close it at our then prevailing price. However, we may allow you to open or, as the 
case may be, close the Transaction in which case you will be bound by the opening 
or closure of such Transaction, notwithstanding that the factors in Section 15.14 were 
not satisfied. 
Clause 15.14.3 says:  the quote must not contain a Manifest Error 
The terms and conditions of the account give Plus500 the power to void any transactions 
which are affected by a manifest error.
In terms of the price itself, I have looked at what was happening in the underlying market. 
Whilst I wouldnt expect prices in the underlying market to necessarily be identical to other 
prices derived in the market, I would expect the prices to be reflective of it. The trade was 
closed at the price of 506.75 but the chart data appears to show a price high at one point of 
97.30 and a price high for the month of February 2020 that did not exceed 150  both much 
lower than the 506.75 Mr H was seeing. I have no reason to doubt the information that has 
been provided to me and on balance, I am persuaded that the information was accurate and 
that pricing Plus500 showed in this period was triggered by a manifest error.
Plus500 have refunded Mr H $515.74. They say this reflected the amount that was in his 
account prior to the manifest error. I appreciate that he says he believes the price would 
have reached $82 and this is the price they should refund him at. It is difficult to say what 
would have happened or what Mr H would have done in this situation, particularly as the 
price continued to improve in his favour. I feel any comments on this would be speculation 
with the benefit of hindsight. Essentially, Plus500 decided to put him back in the position he 
would have been in had the manifest error not occurred so that he is not at a loss as a result of this. With this in mind, I feel the decision to pay Mr H $515.74 was fair and is broadly in 
line with what we would suggest here at this service. 
Overall, I consider that Plus500 have accepted that the manifest error had an impact on 
Mr H and have tried to rectify this by paying him $515.74 so that Mr H is not out of pocket by 
putting him back in the position he would otherwise have been in. From what Ive seen they 
have been fair and reasonable, and I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on Plus 500s 
part has been established.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Plus500UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman