DRN-2717086
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance plc (Vauxhall Finance) has been misrepresented to him as he was not told it was a 
Category D insurance write off.
Mr W has been represented by his partner at times but, for ease, and because Mr W is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer to him throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
If Mr W was told something that was false and if that false information led him to enter into 
an agreement he most likely would not have entered into, had it not been for that false 
information, I would think the agreement was misrepresented to him.
The relevant legislation explains that the finance provider (Vauxhall Finance here) are 
responsible for what they say and what the broker (the dealership here) say when 
negotiating the agreement as their representatives. So, I think Vauxhall Finance are 
responsible for any misrepresentation.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence the car was a category D write off and that 
the business should have known about this and have ensured Mr W was also aware.
I say that because:
Vauxhall Finance have provided a copy of the Hire Purchase Investigation (HPI) 
check for this car and that shows it has not been an insurance write off. This is the 
standard check I would expect a business to use to establish whether a car had any 
outstanding issues before it was sold on;
Mr W has provided text from a check he says he commissioned from a company who 
provide vehicle history reports. That text explains the car was a Category D write off. 
But Ive not been provided with the report that the text has come from. Having 
reviewed a sample report from that business I can see that the reports are extensive 
and not only provide details of any write offs but also provide photographic evidence 
of the salvage. As that detail hasnt been provided I find the business evidence more 
compelling and, even if that information was provided, I dont think theres evidence 
here that the business would have been aware the car was a previous write off  the 
HPI check Id expect them to do was clear.
So, Im afraid that whilst I understand and sympathise with how distressing this situation will 
be for Mr W, I dont think it would be fair to ask Vauxhall Finance to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman