DRN-2459173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint relates to the decision of Aviva Insurance Limited to decline their 
claim made under a home insurance policy for damage following a storm.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs M reported to Aviva that following strong winds, their flat 
garage roof had been blown off. There was also damage to some of the tiling on the main 
roof of the house.
Aviva appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor reported that over time the 
fixings between the felt and decking on the flat roof had been weakened. His view was that 
the high winds had simply highlighted the existing condition of the roof.
In declining the claim for the flat roof, Aviva commented that the nails holding the roof in 
place were rusted and worn. Its view was that the main cause of the damage was the poor 
condition of the roof. It referred to a policy exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear, or 
that happens gradually. Aviva also declined to cover the damage to the main roof.
Mr and Mrs M highlighted that the roofer who repaired the damage had commented that this 
had been caused by storm. Unhappy with Avivas decision, Mr and Mrs M brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. His view was that the main cause of the 
damage to the flat roof was the condition it had been in at the time of the storm. However, he 
noted that the surveyor appointed by Aviva hadnt suggested that the tiles damaged on the 
main roof were suffering from any pre-existing condition at the time of the storm. The 
investigator proposed that Aviva pay Mr and Mrs M the costs of the repairs to the main roof, 
plus interest.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators assessment with regard to the flat roof. In 
support of their position, they commissioned a new report from a surveyor.
Aviva disagreed that it should cover the repair costs to the main roof. Its opinion was that the 
main roof had moss growth on it and was also in need of maintenance.
The investigators view of the complaint remained unchanged, and so the file has been 
passed to me to consider.
In further submissions, Aviva referred to the photos taken by its appointed surveyor of the 
main roof, commenting upon the way the tiles were sited.
Mr M provided further details about the way in which the flat roof was constructed. He has 
commented that all three layers of the roof were blown off in one piece, and he has stated 
that this shows that the bonding between the layers was not compromised. Mr M considers 
the photos also show that nails remained effective throughout the storm. He says that the 
nails that do show signs of ageing were only securing the periphery of the felt above the 
gutter line. Other nails, plus the timber decking, did not shows signs of wear and tear. Mr M 
has also said that the flat roof did not have signs of de-bonding or cracking, and the felt was 
in good condition.
Mr M has commented that Avivas surveyor did not in fact see the underside of the felt and 
decking because the affected roof area had been covered by a temporary repair. 
Consequently Mr M considers the surveyors assessment of the damage was based on 
conjecture, and that there was no evidence of de-bonding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms claim was considered under the cover provided by the policy for storm 
damage. When considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this 
service generally looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of 
the event claimed for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the 
identified storm the main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we 
would normally expect an insurer to cover the claim.
My understanding is that both parties accept that at the time of the claim, wind speeds in the 
vicinity of Mr and Mrs Ms house were around 60mph. Overall, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs Ms property experienced storm force winds at this time.
Damage to roofs is consistent with what storm force winds can do. Consequently what I 
need to determine is whether in my view, storm force winds were the main cause of the 
damage sustained both to Mr and Mrs Ms flat roof, and to their main roof.
The flat roof
Avivas surveyor visited Mr and Mrs Ms house shortly after the storm. He reported that (t)he 
friable condition of the felt indicates it has been in situ over [its] expected lifespanand this 
has made it prone to being damaged by winds. He also stated that (o)ver a period of time 
the fixings between the felt and plywood decking have weakened. In declining the claim, 
Aviva stated that the nails holding the roof in place were rusted and very worn.
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that when the Aviva surveyor inspected the flat roof, it had 
been covered as a temporary repair to provide some protection. However, the detail in the 
surveyors report indicates that he was still able to carry out a reasonable inspection of the 
damage.
Mr M has also provided a report from his own surveyor, and I have carefully considered its 
contents. I understand that this surveyor was able to examine some of the timber decking 
that had formed part of the damaged flat roof. He has explained that original fixing nails were 
still in position. Mr Ms surveyor reported the sheeting to be in sound condition, and that 
there was no evidence of corrosion to the remaining fixing nails. He has also said that the 
position of the property means that it is exposed to strong winds.
Mr Ms surveyor was limited in the evidence he had to examine due to repairs having been 
carried out to the roof some time ago. This meant that no parts of the original felt roof 
covering were available to inspect.
In assessing this matter, I must balance the evidence that has been provided by the parties. 
At the outset of this complaint, Mr and Mrs M provided some photographs taken following the storm. These included images of the nails that I understand held the flat roof in place. I 
appreciate that Mr M has said these were only securing the periphery of the felt. But the 
condition of these nails would seem to align with the comments made by Aviva that the nails 
used on the flat roof were rusted and worn. As confirmed by Mr Ms surveyors report, the 
roof covering was around 15 years old.
The winds that the flat roof were exposed to were clearly strong. However, on the balance of 
the evidence submitted, my view is that it is more likely than not that the dominant cause for 
the damage sustained to the flat roof was its condition at the time that the storm occurred, 
rather than the storm itself. I am persuaded that the fixings between the felt and decking had 
weakened over time, as reported by Avivas surveyor.
I note that Mr and Mrs Ms policy also included cover for accidental damage to buildings. But 
there are exclusions under this cover, including damage caused by wear and tear, or 
anything that happens gradually. Based on these, my view is that the gradual deterioration in 
the condition of the flat roof over time would also result in the claim not being payable under 
this section of the policy.
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with my findings in this regard, my 
conclusion is that Aviva acted fairly when it declined to cover the damage to the flat roof.
The main tiled roof
Damage to tiling on a roof is consistent with the type of damage storm force winds might 
cause. In his report, Avivas surveyor did not provide comments about the reason why tiles 
had been dislodged on the main roof.
Our investigator proposed that Aviva should cover the damage to the main roof under storm. 
Aviva has disagreed, highlighting moss growth and suggesting that the main roof was in 
need of maintenance. It has stated that the tiles were not secure, and has referred to the 
photos taken by its surveyor in relation to how the tiles were sitting.
Having examined the photos, Im not persuaded on balance that these show the main roof 
was in the poor state that Aviva has suggested. And Im mindful that the surveyor makes no 
comment in his report about the condition of the main roof prior to the storm. Whilst I note 
what Aviva has said about how the tiles are sitting in the photos, this was after the storm 
event.
Overall, in the absence of specific comments from the surveyor about the state of the roof, 
my view is that it is more likely than not that the storm force winds were the main cause of 
the damage to the tiles on the main roof. Consequently I consider it reasonable that Aviva 
should cover the costs of repairing the damage to the main roof.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have already paid for the repairs at their property. I therefore 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to settle the claim made for the damage to the main roof, 
subject to the remaining policy terms. Mr and Mrs M will need to provide appropriate 
evidence to Aviva Insurance Limited to show the cost of the repairs to the main roof.
To any sum due should be added 8% per annum simple interest from the date that Mr and 
Mrs M paid for the repairs to the main roof to the date of settlement. If Aviva Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I make no other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman