DRN-3703669
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance Company Limited made to her car 
following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants the repairs rectified. 
What happened
Mrs Ks car was damaged, and Admiral took it for repair. Two years later, Mrs K said the 
paintwork was peeling and she thought it should be repaired under the lifetime repairs 
guarantee. Admirals engineer examined pictures of the damage and he said it was more 
likely to be due to wear and tear and stone chips. Mrs K was unhappy with this.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
reasonable for Admiral to rely on the engineers view. Mrs K hadnt provided any further 
evidence for Admiral to consider. So she thought Admiral had justified its decision not to pay 
for further repairs. 
Mrs K replied that the damage was located only on areas previously repaired by Admirals 
approved garage. She said she would obtain a report from a repairer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs K feels frustrated and disappointed by Admirals decision. I can 
see that its taken Mrs K some time to get a response to her complaint due to confusion 
about the claim and the garage where the repairs were carried out having changed 
ownership. Mrs K said this garage told her that the lacquer was coming off in the areas 
previously repaired. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Mrs K sent photographs of the areas of concern to Admiral. It had its engineer review them. 
Mrs K thought Admiral should inspect her car physically. But I dont think its unusual for 
engineers to consider damage and repairs issues based on photographs. 
The engineer said the damage was due to extensive stone chips and scratches. And, as 
these hadnt been repaired, flaking had occurred due to the wear and tear. This is a 
maintenance issue and doesnt mean that the initial repairs were faulty. And so the 
rectification wasnt covered by the lifetime guarantee. 
Mrs K said the damage was only in the areas previously repaired, the left hand side of the 
front bumper and the bonnet above this. But I can see from Admirals file that the original 
damage to the car was:
starts from the d/s door dents go along over the wheel arch and around onto the front 
bumper
I cant see that Mrs K has raised concerns about the paintwork in all of these areas. I think 
that if the paintwork had been faulty, then she would have noticed further areas of concern. 
Mrs K said she would provide a report from a garage for Admiral to consider. But I cant see 
that she has done this. And so I cant see any further evidence that Admiral should have 
considered.
And so I think Admiral has considered the expert opinion of its engineer and reasonably 
relied upon this to justify its decision not to pay for further repairs. I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman