DRN-3558068
The complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK plc wont pay to her the amounts that shes claimed 
from it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a garage that was supplied and 
installed but wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
Miss H used her Santander credit card to pay £2,516 in August 2020 towards the 
cost of the supply and installation of a garage. The suppliers specification for the 
work said that the cost for supplying and building on the existing concrete base was 
£4,005 and that the cost for dismantling and removing the existing timber garage with 
asbestos roof and concrete bunker was £950. The total cost of the work increased to 
£5,032 and Miss H paid £550 in cash towards the cost of dismantling and removing 
the existing garage and the final invoice of £1,966 using a credit card from a different 
credit provider in September 2020.
Miss H had issues with the garage, including flooding, so she complained to the 
supplier and then to Santander under section 75. She also paid for the work to be 
inspected by an independent expert. She wasnt satisfied with Santanders response 
so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that there had been a breach of contract by the supplier but Miss H had paid £550 in 
cash to have the old garage torn down so that shouldnt be considered as part of her 
claim. He also said that the quoted cost for now replacing the garage of £13,000 was 
significantly disproportionate to what was originally paid so he thought that a refund 
of the cost of the garage would be fairer. He recommended that Santander should: 
refund £4,752 to Miss H (which he said was the cost price of the garage minus the 
£550 paid in cash); arrange for the garage to be torn down; reimburse Miss H the 
£540 that she paid for the independent inspection; reimburse her £132.51 for the cost 
of the water butt and dams that she bought to deal with the flooding; and pay her 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander says that the contract price was £5,032, Miss H paid a 50% deposit on her 
Santander credit card, the actual cost of the removal of the original garage was 
£1,100, £550 of which Miss H paid in cash and the other £550 was included in the 
£1,966 that she paid on a different credit card. It says that that the supplier will 
remove the replacement garage and will refund £3,932 to Miss H and that it will cover 
the other compensation of £922.51.
Miss H has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says 
that the quote for the new replacement garage is much higher because construction 
costs have risen substantially and she wont be able to afford the new replacement 
garage so will be left with an empty garage pad and nowhere to store her 
possessions. She also says that the removal of the original garage wasnt completed 
with due care and attention and part of the existing pad and her driveway were 
removed so a new base is required and new drains may need to be installed. She 
says that the supplier was abusive and she doesnt want it to do the work. She says 
that no money should be deducted as shes had to pay out hundreds of pounds and 
has as yet unknown losses due to electrical goods sitting in puddles.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Miss 
Hs complaint about Santander, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and that Santanders response to her 
claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable, but Im not determining the outcome 
of Miss Hs claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Miss H paid £2,516 towards the cost of the garage using her Santander credit card in 
August 2020, I understand that she paid £550 in cash to the supplier towards the 
cost of removing the original garage and she paid £1,966 to the supplier in 
September 2020 using a different credit card.
There were issues with the garage and Miss H paid £540 for it to be inspected by an 
independent expert in March 2021. The inspection report included photos of the 
issues with the garage and said:
We would recommend that the garage is stripped and rebuilt, ensuring that 
the walls are vertical and that all concrete panels align and are connected 
securely and sealed. The roof timber should be reset and holding down straps 
installed. The roof should be reinstalled with care taken at the edge detailing. 
All rainwater goods should be installed securely and to a fall. Rainwater 
should be directed away from the garage and ideally into the rainwater 
drainage network within the curtilage of the site. Consideration should be 
given to installing a drainage channel at the front of the garage to direct water 
away from the door and prevent water ingress.
Santander says that that the supplier will remove the replacement garage and will 
refund £3,932 to Miss H and that it will cover the other compensation of £922.51. The 
£3,932 is the total cost of the replacement garage of £5,032 less the £1,100 that Miss 
H was charged for removing the original garage.
The suppliers specification said that it would dismantle and remove the existing 
timber garage with asbestos roof and concrete bunker  and I consider that the 
supplier has done that and that Miss H has received the benefit of it so I consider that 
its fair and reasonable that she should pay for it. Miss H says that the removal of the 
original garage wasnt completed with due care and attention and part of the existing 
pad and her driveway were removed so a new base is required and new drains may 
need to be installed. The independent experts recommendations didnt include the 
need for a new base or drains  and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
to show that the removal of the original garage wasnt competed with due care and 
skill or that the base or drains were damaged. I find that its fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances for Miss H to be responsible for the £1,100 that she paid for the 
original garage to be removed.Miss H has provided a quote for a new garage of £13,000 and says that the cost is 
much higher because construction costs have risen substantially and that its not fair 
or reasonable that shes left with an empty garage pad and nowhere to store her 
possessions. Im not persuaded that the cost of a like-for-like replacement of a 
garage that was to cost about £4,000 would have increased to £13,000, even though 
I accept that construction costs have increased substantially. I agree with our 
investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Santander to be required to pay 
for a new garage in these circumstances and that its fair and reasonable for it to 
reimburse Miss H for the amount that she paid the supplier for the replacement 
garage. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for 
Santander to pay £3,932 to Miss H.
Santander has said that the supplier will remove the replacement garage but Miss H 
says that she doesnt want it to do the work. As Miss H contracted with the supplier 
and it supplied and installed the garage, Im not persuaded that its inappropriate for it 
to remove the replacement garage  and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Santander to pay for a third party to remove the 
replacement garage.
Miss H paid £540 for the independent experts report and £132.51 for the water butt 
and dams that she bought to deal with the flooding. Santander has agreed to 
reimburse her for those costs and I find that it should also pay interest on all of the 
above amounts that are to be reimbursed to Miss H. Miss H says that shes lost 
priceless mementos, memorabilia and personal items which were damaged or 
destroyed by the flooding but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show the value of those items or that they were damaged as a result of the issues 
with the garage or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander to 
pay her any compensation for those losses.
But these events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Miss H. Our 
investigator recommended that Santander should pay her £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  and it has agreed to do so. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander to pay £250 to Miss H to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience that shes been caused. Im not persuaded that a higher award of 
compensation is justified in these circumstances or that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Santander to take any action, other than as described above, in 
response to her complaint.
Subject to any further representations by Miss H or Santander, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
Santander has accepted my provisional decision but says that the remedy will be split 
between it and the supplier. Miss H says that her house is currently under offer and a sale 
would hamper the ability to remove the garage as it won't be able to be removed unless it's 
fully replaced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. If Miss H 
doesnt want Santander to arrange and pay for the replacement garage to be removed, or it 
isnt possible for that to happen because the house has been sold, then she should inform 
Santander that she doesnt want it to be removed. But Im not persuaded that her sale of the house means that Santander should be required to replace the garage and I consider that 
the remedy that I set out in my provisional decision remains fair and reasonable.
Santander says that the supplier will be responsible for some parts of the remedy. That is 
something thats between it and the supplier. Im unable to require the supplier to take any 
action and I consider that Santander is responsible for the actions required, whatever 
arrangement it has made with the supplier.
 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to take the actions described in my 
provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I order Santander UK plc to:
1. Arrange and pay for the replacement garage to be removed (unless Miss H tells it 
that she doesnt want it to be removed or it isnt possible for it to be removed 
because the house has been sold).
2. Pay £3,932 to Miss H to reimburse her for the cost of the replacement garage.
3. Pay £540 to Miss H to reimburse her for the cost of the independent inspection.
4. Pay £132.51 to Miss H to reimburse her for the cost of the water butt and dams.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Pay £250 to Miss H to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Santander must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman