DRN-4104144
The complaint
Mr T complains that  a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like 
more compensation than VWFS has agreed to pay.
What happened
Mr T says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a new car in September 2020. He 
says he had problems with the software from when he first got the car resulting in numerous 
repair attempts which didnt work. He was also unhappy with the roof rack and bars and 
whilst these were replaced it remains difficult to uninstall.
Mr T says he asked to reject the car in May 2022 but didnt get a response to his letter and 
then further complained to VWFS in November 2022.
VWFS upheld Mr Ts complaint in relation to the software related issues and offered to 
refund the equivalent of one months rental (£346) plus £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience. It didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint about the roof rack explaining that the issue 
was characteristic of the accessory.
Our investigator issued a view in which he upheld Mr Ts complaint. He found there was a 
fault with the car but not with the roof rack. He felt VWFSs refund of the equivalent of one 
months rental was fair but felt the compensation for distress and inconvenience should be 
higher. He recommended that VWFS:-
Refund the equivalent of one months rental (£346) to cover loss or impaired use of 
the car adding 8% simple interest
Pay £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused by the faulty goods
Remove any adverse data from Mr Ts credit file in relation to this agreement.
VWFS accepted this view, but Mr T didnt. He raised a number of issues around the right to 
rejecting within 30 days, how his rejection request was handled by VWFS, the time and effort 
taken with garage visits, the lack of resolution on the roof rack issue, and the lack of 
explanation as to why the equivalent of one months rental was sufficient compensation.
Our investigator considered and responded to these points but as he didnt change his view 
Mr T asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T took out an agreement for a new car in September 2020. As such I think he could 
reasonably have expected it to be fault free. We usually say if issues arise within six months 
of having a car the onus is on the business to investigate and to see if there is a point-of-sale 
issue for which it is responsible. After six months the onus is on the consumer to show there 
is a point-of-sale issue  usually by providing some independent evidence or report to 
support this.
Mr T says he had issues from when he first got the car. He hasnt been able to evidence 
work carried out to his car or the garage visits he says he made. He has told us a new 
control unit was fitted in May 2021 but that doesnt accord with the vehicle history showing 
this took place in October 2021. Notwithstanding that discrepancy its clear that there was a 
software issue with the car from at least October 2021. 
Mr T hasnt given us any independent evidence to confirm if the fault was present at the 
point of sale or not and now he has sold the car its not possible to get an independent 
inspection of it. However there clearly was a problem which took several attempts to repair. 
VWFS accepted this in its final response letter.
The issue for me to consider is the appropriate level of compensation. VWFS offered to 
refund the equivalent of one months rental and accepted our investigators recommendation 
that his should have interest applied along to this  with a payment of £200 for the distress  
and inconvenience. Mr T doesnt feel this is sufficient for the inconvenience. He would like a 
minimum of the equivalent of 14 months payments refunded and at least £500 
compensation.
The issues Mr T had with the car related to a software fault with the SOS warnings, satellite 
navigation, and an issue with the roof rack. From the vehicle history I can see that there was 
an issue with the SOS warning light  with a new control unit fitted in October 2021 but its 
clear from the vehicle history the SOS warning light was still an issue in December 2021 and 
March 2022 so clearly this fault hadnt been rectified by this last date. 
Mr T  has told us his mileage was limited because of the issues with the car. As I understand 
it he didnt feel safe driving it. However, he did still drive approximately 8000 miles . If he was 
really concerned about safety I am not sure he would have driven the car at all. I have no 
evidence he used the car less than he would have done had he not had the software issue.  
And also, no evidence as to whether the software fault was ongoing or intermittent and if the 
latter how intermittent the problem was. So, its difficult to assess the exact impact of the 
fault on Mr Ts use of the car.
In its final response letter of 22 November 2022 WFS advised it understood the software 
issue had been resolved. Mr T says it wasnt and he sold the car with the fault. He hasnt 
evidenced this so I cant be sure if the fault was finally resolved or not  
With regard to the roof rack as  I understand it from the information I have Mr T raised a 
problem with this in November 2021. The roof rack was replaced as a gesture of goodwill 
although the issue seems to have taken some time to resolve. Mr T wasnt happy with the 
resolution as he has told us the roof was difficult to uninstall but VWFS advised this was 
characteristic of the accessory. I appreciate that must have been frustrating for Mr T, but it 
seems there was nothing more that could be done.
In terms of the other points that Mr T has made to support his request for further 
compensation I have no evidence Mr T asked to reject the car within the first thirty days he 
had the right to do so or that the dealership obstructed such a request .
As I understand it  Mr T asked the dealership  to reject the car when a new control unit was 
fitted in October 2021, but this was declined on the basis that as more than six months had 
passed the business said it had more than one right to repair which was accurate. And at 
that point the control unit had been replaced so there would have been a reasonable 
expectation the issue had been resolved.With regard to Mr Ts letter to request rejection to in May 2022 it seems this wasnt received. 
Having looked at the customer notes I cant see any reference to this  just a reference to 
paying off the full balance for the car the month Mr T got it. I think Mr T probably did send a 
letter requesting rejection but as there is no evidence that VWFS received this I cant hold it 
responsible for not taking any action until Mr T contacted VWFS in   November 2022. VWFS 
issued a final response letter the same month,  so I think VWFS completed its investigation 
in a timely manner.
I  appreciate Mr T has told us he sold his car at a loss; he hasnt evidenced why this was  or 
that the car was sold with the software issue still ongoing. However, selling the car was his 
choice  he could have asked us to consider allowing him to reject the car and waited until the 
outcome of our investigation. Unfortunately,  as he sold the car it cant be inspected so I 
dont know if there would have been grounds to reject it or not.
Taking all of this information into account it seems to me that the  ongoing software issue  
would have impacted on Mr Ts use of the car although its difficult to quantify how much so 
and as the car has been sold its impossible to get it independently inspected. After much 
consideration I feel that the refund of one months rental VWFS offered and the increased 
compensation it agreed of £200 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should :-
Refund the equivalent of one months rental payment of £346 with 8% simple interest 
added
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused due to the issues with the car
Remove any adverse data from Mr Ts credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman