DRN-2810333
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc cancelled his pet insurance policy and wouldnt 
pay his claim.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr M took out pet insurance for his dog. The policy insurer was Pinnacle.  
The policy gave cover for a condition for 12 months, subject to the policy terms and 
conditions.
In October 2020 Mr M made a claim for his dogs fractured jaw which needed surgery. He 
said the treatment cost £5,000 and he claimed for the £3,000 policy limit.
When Pinnacle assessed the claim it saw from Mr Ms dogs medical history that shed been 
to the vet for various medical issues. Pinnacle said:
Mr M should have told it about those issues when it asked about his dogs health 
when he bought the policy but he didnt 
if it had known about the medical issues it would have added the following seven 
exclusions to the policy, in line with its underwriting guidance:
oSkin Problems  Non Reviewable
oEar Problems  Non Reviewable
oEye Problems  Non Reviewable
oFemale Genital Problems  Review after Spay
oMammary Problems  Non Reviewable
oHeart Problems  Review after 28 January 2021
oPneumonia  Review after 28 January 2021
it had made a commercial decision not to offer insurance cover for any policy which 
would have more than five exclusions so it would never have offered to insure Mr Ms 
dog. 
Pinnacle cancelled the policy from the start, said it would refund Mr M his policy premium 
and it wouldnt pay the claim.
Mr M complained to us. He said Pinnacle had ignored his dogs vet letter stating that most of 
the conditions Pinnacle thought were pre-existing conditions werent pre-existing. He wants  
Pinnacle to pay the claim. He detailed how hes been badly affected by his dogs accident 
and his struggle to pay the vet costs as Pinnacle wouldnt pay his claim.
Pinnacle told us that Mr M had made a careless misrepresentation about his dogs medical 
history when he was questioned about her health when he bought the policy. It believed it 
had acted fairly and in line with the relevant law.
Our investigator said Pinnacle had acted fairly.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the accident which broke his 
dogs jaw wasnt related to the alleged pre-existing conditions.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked Pinnacle about the health questions it asked 
Mr M when he bought the policy, information on its underwriting criteria, and whether it had 
refunded the policy premium. Ill refer to Pinnacles responses in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide wither Pinnacle acted fairly and reasonably and I think it did. I dont uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
Our approach is in line with the relevant law on this issue, The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive considered the circumstances of this case to consider whether Pinnacle fairly added the 
exclusions and cancelled the policy given our approach, in line with CIDRA.
When Mr M bought the policy he was asked:
Has (his dog) ever shown any sign of injury or been unwell? We need to know 
anything you have noticed or discussed with your vet or any other professional about 
(his dogs) health or behaviour. Even if there was nothing to be concerned about and 
the problem was resolved quickly.
The policy sales process said it was important Mr M tell Pinnacle about pre-existing 
conditions or symptoms his dog had before he took out the policy and that failure to do so 
may affect his claim and policy. So I think Pinnacle warned Mr M that not giving full 
information might affect his policy cover.  
Mr M answered no to the above question. But his dogs vet records show shed been seen 
by the vet for various issues before the policy started. 
Ive seen Mr Ms dogs vets letter which says why the vet thinks only the dogs eye problem 
and skin problems should be considered pre-existing conditions. But I think the question Mr M was asked is clear that its asking for broader information than just diagnosed pre-
existing conditions.
Ive seen Mr Ms dogs medical history and think Mr M didnt take reasonable care in telling 
Pinnacle about the issues shed seen the vet for. Pinnacle has provided its underwriting 
criteria which shows that if Mr M had told it about the issues it would have added the seven 
exclusions listed above to the policy. So I think Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation as it made a difference to what Pinnacle would have done about the 
policy.
I think it would help Mr M to explain how Pinnacles underwriting criteria works. His dogs vet 
letter says pneumonia wasnt diagnosed and no heart problems were noted. But the vet 
notes for April 2019 says Mr Ms dog:
has had a lot of stertorous breathing in the last 3-4 days, concerned as this is so 
much worse for (the dog) than her breathing usually is, but lungs do sound clear, 
covering in case of aspiration pneum/rhinitis.
So there was a concern that Mr Ms dog noisy laboured breathing was pneumonia 
symptoms. The underwriting criteria shows that if there are pneumonia symptoms then 
pneumonia and heart problems are excluded, reviewable after two years. Its for Pinnacle to 
decide what risks it wants to exclude under its underwriting criteria and its decided to 
exclude the risk of heart problems as well as pneumonia if the latter symptoms are 
suspected. 
Mr Ms dogs vet letter also says the dogs ear problems should be seen as part of her skin 
problem. But Pinnacles underwriting criteria says that where there are skin problems then 
ear problems are also excluded. It doesnt want to cover the risk of ears problems if there 
are skin problems.
While Mr Ms dogs vet letter says a pseudopregnancy shouldnt be considered as a medical 
condition, Pinnacles underwriting criteria says where a dog has had a pseudopregnancy it 
doesnt want to cover the risk of female genital problems or mammary problems and 
excludes both. As Ive said its for Pinnacle to decide what risks it wants to cover.
Im satisfied that Pinnacle applied exclusions in line with its underwriting criteria given Mr Ms 
dogs medical history.
Pinnacle says that Mr Ms misrepresentation about his dogs health was careless, rather 
than deliberate or reckless, and I think thats fair. Where there is careless misrepresentation, 
under CIDRA and our approach, Pinnacle can do what it would have done if it had the 
correct information from when the misrepresentation was made, in this case the start of the 
policy.
Pinnacles made a business decision that it wouldnt issue a policy if the policy had more 
than five exclusions. So as Mr Ms policy would have had seven exclusions Pinnacle would 
never have offered Mr M a policy from the start. That means Pinnacle can fairly treat Mr Ms  
policy as though it never existed and not deal with any claims. As the policy in effect never 
existed Pinnacle must refund Mr M the policy premiums he paid and its now sent evidence 
that it did.
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ms been struggling to pay the vet fees and hes been very worried 
about the whole situation. I understand that his dogs broken jaw is unrelated to her previous 
health issues. But for the reasons above I think Pinnacle acted fairly and reasonably in 
cancelling the policy, not paying the claim and refunding the premiums to him.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman