DRN-3771668
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for a used van engine.
 
What happened
Mr R was told by a garage in July 2021 that his van needed a new engine so he used his 
Virgin Money credit card in July 2021 to pay £1,854 for a used engine and turbo from a 
supplier. The garage says that when it fitted the engine it found water in the sump and that 
the engine had no compression due to water damage. 
Mr R contacted Virgin Money and it made a chargeback claim to the supplier for the 
payment that Mr R had made to it. The supplier challenged the chargeback so Virgin Money 
declined Mr Rs claim and it says that it determined that there was no claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the engine wasnt of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose which was a breach of contract. 
She recommended that Virgin Money should refund the cost of the engine to Mr Rs account, 
backdated to its decision in December 2021 to decline his claim, and reconstruct his credit 
card to reflect that refund. 
Virgin Money hasnt responded to our investigators recommendation so Ive been asked to 
issue a decision on Mr Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Virgin Money made a chargeback claim to the supplier for the payment that Mr R had 
made to it for the engine  but the claim was challenged by the supplier and Virgin 
Money declined his claim in December 2021;
it says that it determined that there was no claim under section 75 but Ive seen no 
evidence to show that it properly considered his claim under section 75 or the 
reasons for its determination;
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  and I consider that Virgin Money 
should have properly considered Mr Rs claim under section 75;
to be able to uphold Mr Rs complaint about Virgin Money, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the engine 
and that Virgin Moneys response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Rs claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
a garage told Mr R in July 2021 that his van needed a new engine so he bought a 
used engine and turbo and the garage says that when it fitted the engine it found 
water in the sump and that the engine had no compression due to water damage; 
the garage says that the supplier contacted it and said that the water damage must 
have been caused by the garage washing the engine but Ive seen no other evidence 
from the supplier or Virgin Money to show that the engine was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr R or that the issues with it were caused by the garage; 
I consider it to be more likely than not that the engine wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr R which would be a breach of contract by the supplier for 
which Virgin Money would be liable under section 75; and
I consider that Virgin Moneys response to Mr Rs claim wasnt fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to take the 
actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Virgin Money to rework Mr Rs credit card as if 
the payment of £1,854 had been refunded to his credit card account in December 2021 
(when Virgin Money declined his claim) and to make the refund and payments described 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, to:
1. Rework Mr Rs credit card account as if the payment of £1,854 had been 
refunded in December 2021, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that 
the account was in credit - it should also refund the credit balance to Mr R.
2. If Mr N has repaid the £1,854 (or any part of it) to Virgin Money but doesnt have 
a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin Money to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Virgin Money must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman