DRN-1286035
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) sent information about 
her current account she held with it, to her partner.   
What happened
Mrs B has said that her partner started to receive text messages about the current account 
she held with Halifax. She has said she never provided her partners number but believes it 
may have been added without her consent when they took out a joint mortgage with Halifax.
The text messages Mrs Bs partner had received was about the account being overdrawn 
and the associated charges. There were several messages sent to Mrs Bs partner, but she 
says he didn't tell her about some of them due to the conflict it had caused. 
On 2 July 2019 Mrs B set up a standing order and her partner received a text to confirm this. 
So it was at that point that Mrs B complained to Halifax.
Halifax looked into the complaint and initially said it must have been something Mrs B had 
set up. But she confirmed this wasnt something she had authorised. Halifax upheld the 
complaint and offered £75 for the trouble and upset it had caused and offered £10 for calls 
costs. But it said it hadnt breached data protection as there wasnt anything sensitive in the 
text messages it had sent. Mrs B remained unhappy. She said she wanted Halifax to take 
responsibility for the error and she wanted further compensation. So, she brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. And while she agreed Halifax had made an error, 
she felt it didnt need to do anything further. To summarise she said that Halifax confirmed it 
was possible that it added her partners number in error at the time she took out a joint 
mortgage with him. She said the first text sent to Mrs Bs partner was on 23 January 2019 
and a further six messages were sent between January and July 2019. But Mrs B didn't 
raise this with Halifax until July 2019 (because Mrs B was pretending the texts were nothing 
to with her). As such she felt Mrs B had several opportunities to notify Halifax that it was 
sending messages to her partner. This would have prevented the trouble and upset caused 
to Mrs B having to have difficult conversations. She advised that Mrs B could contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if she remained unhappy about how her data had 
been handled. Overall, she felt the offer Halifax had made was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs B didn't agree with the investigators opinion. She said that originally, she wasnt sure 
the text messages her partner had received were about her account. She assumed it was a 
third party trying to obtain information. And as her partner didn't tell her about all the text 
messages Halifax had sent, she wasnt aware for six months. She felt the investigator had 
misunderstood what she had said, and so she asked for the case to be passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
I have considered Mrs Bs testimony and I can see that in the complaint form she submitted 
to our service she says:
My partner has been receiving texts about my current account with Halifax Bank. The first 
two earlier on in the year were about me being overdrawn and would be charged, he asked 
me about it and I actually fibbed and said it must be a hoax as I wasn't overdrawn. I did not 
want him knowing my business, I did nothing at this time.
I appreciate that Mrs B wasnt made aware of all the text messages (during the entire  
sixmonth period) but I think on balance she was aware of the first two messages her partner 
had received. 
I have also reviewed Mrs Bs bank statements and I can see that the text messages sent 
match up with Mrs Bs balance at that time. So, I think its reasonable to suggest that Mrs B 
would have or ought to have been aware her account was overdrawn at the time the 
messages were sent. With that in mind, I think its fair to say when she was aware her 
partner had received a text message (which had caused a conflict and ultimately impacted 
Mrs B) she could have checked if this was related to her account. And upon realising it did, 
she could have removed her partners number from her account at that point. 
Having seen the text messages that were sent to Mrs Bs partner, I can see each message 
included the last four digits of Mrs Bs account. So again, I think it is likely Mrs B would have 
been aware this text message was in relation to her account. 
I totally appreciate that Halifaxs error has had an impact on Mrs B. And I understand that it 
has caused a conflict between her and her partner. This error shouldnt have occurred. But I 
am pleased to see that there has been no financial detriment caused due to the error and 
Mrs B has now changed the number on the account. 
I do accept this would have caused Mrs B a degree of trouble upset. But in light of what I 
have already said, I do think its reasonable to say Mrs B could have mitigated her own 
losses by removing the number sooner. So, when considering an award for trouble and 
upset I think the offer made by Halifax is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman