DRN-3430155
The complaint
Mr B complains that TransferWise Ltd blocked and closed his account whilst he was abroad. 
He incurred expenses. He would like compensation and his funds returned. 
What happened
Mr B had a personal account with Wise.
I am aware that Mr Bs company also has a complaint with our service which will be dealt 
with separately.
On 29 July 2021 Wise closed Mr Bs personal account. At the time he was travelling by car 
in Europe with his family.
Mr B has told us he was stuck abroad with no money and no way of paying for 
accommodation or petrol as his account was blocked and closed.
Mr B was told Wise were carrying out a due diligence exercise on the funds left in the 
account which could take up to 60 days.
Mr B said although he opened a new account whilst he was abroad, he wasnt able to get 
access to his new card. So, he couldnt get access to his money.
Mr B had his funds paid into a new account he nominated in 29 October 2021.
Mr B contacted our service when he was stranded abroad to complain.
Mr B had said he had paid €15,540 for accommodation and food whilst he was stranded 
abroad. He also said he had to borrow €18,500 from a friend who had driven to meet him in 
order for him to pay for the accommodation and for flights for his family to return to the UK.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said Wise had acted fairly when they 
closed Mr Bs account. He thought there had been a delay in giving Mr B access to his 
funds. He asked Mr B for evidence of the impact this had on him.
Our investigator thought that as Mr B wasnt able to evidence the expenses he had incurred; 
it wasnt possible to establish the impact the delay had on Mr B. And therefore, he wouldnt 
award him compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with the view. He said he had provided all the evidence he had, and he 
wasnt being believed.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account Closure 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Wise contacted Mr B on 29 July 2021 and let him know it had closed his account 
immediately. They were also carrying out a due diligence exercise on the funds in the 
account.
Ive considered whether Wise acted fairly in closing Mr Bs account. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Wise closed Mr Bs 
account without notice. For Wise to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
accounts as its already done. 
I also note that Wise carried out a due diligence exercise on the funds remaining in the 
account. 
UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Wise 
were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mr Bs account.  In addition, I 
have checked the terms and conditions and I am satisfied Wise were entitled to do this. So, I 
dont think they have done anything wrong here. In carrying out the review Wise were 
following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Wise was unfair.
Return of funds
Mr Bs funds were returned to him on 29 October 2021 to an account he nominated. I am 
satisfied that Mr B has had his funds returned.
Delay
Looking at the evidence I can see that Wise could have completed their review sooner. 
Because of this I have gone on to consider the impact that this delay had on Mr B.
Mr B has told us because of the block on his funds he was in a very difficult situation. He 
was stuck abroad on a road trip with his partner and children and he was on his way to see 
other family in another country. He has said that because he couldnt access any money, he 
wasnt able to buy petrol or pay for accommodation. He told us he lived in his car for two 
weeks before he was offered an apartment by a lady in the village. He finally borrowed 
money from friends who drove this money to him from another country. Mr B says with this 
cash he paid for his partner and children to fly back to the UK. He also paid for the rent for 
the apartment that they had stayed in as well as the food provided to them.We asked him for evidence of the flights he bought for his partner and children and for more 
information about the apartment where he was staying. He hasnt been able to provide 
further information to us. 
The evidence he has provided of an email from the owner of the property he stayed in 
suggests a commercial venture and not a private email address. However, Mr B has said he 
rented a private apartment from an individual who wasnt using their own apartment and that 
is why he cant provide us with the evidence we have requested. 
Mr B originally said he had stayed in the car with his family for two weeks before staying in 
the apartment until the end of October. However, the evidence regarding the 
accommodation costs he has sent us shows apartment costs from 29 July to 29 October. 
So, it looks like Mr B was being charged 80 euros a night even for the two weeks he lived in 
his car. 
Originally Mr B said he couldnt borrow money from friends and family and that is why he 
had to stay in the accommodation. But he was able to borrow a substantial amount of money 
from friends who drove the cash to him across an international border.
I find it implausible that Mr B would wait so long before asking to borrow money from his 
friends. He eventually borrowed a substantial amount from them. If the situation was as he 
described, I think it more likely that someone in his position would have borrowed some 
money sooner to pay for petrol to get to his final destination. 
In addition Mr B spent more on accommodation and flights back for his partner and children 
than he had in the accounts that were blocked, so by staying, he was incurring costs over 
and above the funds he had available to him.  Given that Mr B ended up borrowing money 
from friends I find it implausible that he didnt ask to borrow money sooner before such large 
expenses were incurred.
We have asked Mr B to provide evidence of the airline tickets that he bought for his partner 
and children to fly back to the UK but he says that he has now split up from his partner and 
he cannot get access to this information.
I find it unlikely that someone would wait three months in a foreign country when travelling 
with children given the uncertainty of not knowing how long it would take for the Wise review 
to conclude.
In summary I find Mr Bs version of events implausible. He has provided some contradictory 
accounts of his story and in view of the lack of independent evidence, I am unable to award 
Mr B compensation for the delay in carrying out the review of the funds in his account.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman