DRN-3588168
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Northern Bank Ltd trading as Danske Bank did not properly set up 
standing orders in line with her instructions. This caused the order to be unpaid, which 
meant that Mrs A had to make up the shortfall when it was noticed.
What happened
Mrs A sent standing order instructions to the bank in 2016. She amended one of these 
instructions in 2016 to increase the monthly payment. At some point between then and 2021, 
it was noticed that the orders had not been set up properly and that payments amounting to 
around £350 had not been made in that time. Mrs A had funds enough to make the payment 
immediately the shortfall was discovered.
Given the passage of time since things went wrong, the bank has little specific information 
about this, but it agrees that it likely got things wrong and caused this problem. It has offered 
Mrs A £50 to reflect any distress or inconvenience that it has caused her by its mistakes.
Mrs A says that this is not enough, and that the bank should make a payment to her in the 
amount of the shortfall. She says that it was their mistake and that this would put things right.
Our investigator looked at what had gone wrong. They thought that the banks offer was a 
fair one, as it reflected any distress and inconvenience caused. The delay in payment did not 
cause Mrs A to owe any more than she otherwise would have, and the immediate catch up 
payment did not cause her any financial difficulty. 
Mrs A did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are broadly agreed between the parties, and both sides agree that the bank likely 
got things wrong in the way it processed Mrs As instructions. That being the case, the 
question is whether the bank must do any more than it already has to put things right.
While I can understand Mrs As frustration, and her argument that the bank should pay the 
shortfall, I dont think itd be fair to say that the bank should have to pay that amount. 
Ultimately here Mrs A was never left without any money as a result of any mistakes the bank 
made. While there was a shortfall in payments, Mrs A has told us that she was still able to 
make this up when she realised the payments hadnt been made. The impact of the issue 
here was that the relevant payments were eventually made  just later than Mrs A wanted 
them to be. So I cannot say that the bank should pay the shortfall, where that isnt money 
that Mrs A has ever been without even if the bank did make errors here.
In relation to the distress and inconvenience caused by this mistake, I agree that £50 is a fair 
sum for the bank to pay. Mrs A was not put in any financial difficulty that I can see, nor is 
there any wider impact here, such as on her credit rating for example. But, it clearly would 
have been very frustrating to have discovered that the payments hadnt been made. And the 
bank accepts it is probably to blame for this. So for the degree of personal embarrassment 
shes been caused and the inconvenience in dealing with this, I am satisfied that £50 is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Northern Bank Ltd trading as Danske Bank must pay Mrs A 
£50 in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman