DRN-1374330
 
The complaint
Mrs A's complaint concerns her level term assurance policy with ReAssure Limited. She is 
unhappy that it has ended as she was under the impression it would provide cover until she 
passed away.
What happened
Mrs A took out the policy in 1999. She paid a monthly premium of £10 for just over £6,000 of 
cover until the policy ended in July 2019, at which point she complained to ReAssure. 
It didn't uphold the complaint. It explained that it was only responsible for the administration 
of the policy, which it felt it had carried out correctly, in line with the documentation issued to 
her when the policy started.  
Mrs A referred the complaint to this service but our investigator reached the same 
conclusion as ReAssure. She felt the documentation had made clear the policy had a fixed 
term of 20 years and that ReAssure had administered the policy on that basis and in 
accordance with the terms that Mrs A had signed to say she understood at the outset. The 
investigator also noted that since 2012 Mrs A had made a number of enquiries about 
extending the term of the policy and increasing the level of cover, which ReAssure hadn't 
been able to do because it was level term assurance.  
Mrs A disputed the investigator's view. She explained that her late husband had always 
looked after their finances and that she simply wanted to be able to continue with the cover 
to provide for her funeral expenses. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change her view, the matter's been referred to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise Mrs A 
will be very disappointed, I've come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Reassure's responsibility in respect of the policy was solely to administer it correctly, in line 
with its terms and conditions, which I believe it has done. Looking at the documentation 
produced at the time of the sale it confirms that the policy was a level term assurance 
providing cover for a fixed term of 20 years, to protect the financial security of Mrs A's 
dependents. 
I know that Mrs A is very concerned she no longer has cover in place but, in the 
circumstances, that isn't something I can hold Reassure responsible for. It may be that she 
will be able to find some alternative cover that can be funded by the £10 premiums she's now no longer paying to the ReAssure policy. But that's something she would need to take 
guidance upon. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman