DRN-2362993
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 2004 to go with some additional borrowing. Mr and Mrs H says Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds), trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold them PPI.
Only Mrs H was covered by the policy.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below.
 
Ive noticed that Mr and Mrs H havent said they didnt know they had agreed to take out this 
policy, or that they were told they had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude they agreed to 
take out this policy because it was a form of protection they wanted to have. Although the 
relevant PPI application form is no longer available, I think thats supported by the fact that 
when they took out their initial mortgage borrowing in June 2002, as well as some further 
borrowing in May 2003, they chose not to take PPI. So I think its something they made a 
definite decision about when they took out some extra borrowing in 2004.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Ive seen that Mr and Mrs H say they took out the PPI at a meeting but from what Lloyds 
has told us it is also possible that it was taken out over the phone. And the evidence about 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable for them. For example Mrs was eligible for the cover and whilst she told us 
about having some benefits of around 6 months, in the event of a successful claim the PPI 
would pay out for longer  up to 12 months. And given how long shed been in her job, I think 
the PPI would have lasted for longer than her redundancy entitlement as well. Mrs H also 
told us she was entitled to a death in service payment from her employer. But that would 
have only paid out in the unfortunate event of her death. She wouldnt have been paid a 
death in service benefit if she was off sick or if she lost her job. Mrs H also told us about a 
life policy she had but again, thats a different type of product to PPI, only paying out for the 
sole eventuality of death.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which would have made 
it difficult for them to claim. Although Mrs H says she had back problems in around 2000 and 
depression , I see that this was treated at the time and didnt lead to her taking a significant 
amount of time off work. Mrs H also told us about another medical condition she had after 
taking out the policy, in 2006, but I cant see any reason why she couldnt have made a 
successful claim for that had she wanted to. So taking all this into account, I dont think it 
was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended the cover. Also, I see there were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and 
Mrs H would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman