DRN-4222465
The complaint
Mr A complains that the default recorded by Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 
Money hasnt been removed completely from his credit report.
What happened
Mr As credit card account with 118118 Money went into default. He initially raised a 
complaint saying that he had the funds available to repay the arrears. He received a final 
response letter dated 31 August 2022 from 118118 Money saying that if he provided copies 
of his bank statements showing he had the funds available to pay the arrears it would look to 
review the default and remove this. Mr A says he provided the requested copies of bank 
statements. 118118 Money responded to Mr A saying that it had reviewed the information he 
had provided, and it didnt agree that he had the available funds between the date of the 
Notice of Default letter from 12 May 2022 to 10 June 2022, noting that Mr A had borrowed 
from other lenders at the time. Because of this is said it wouldnt be able to remove the 
default.
Mr A then raised a further complaint about his credit card being provided irresponsibly. 
118118 Money provided a final response dated 8 February 2023. It upheld Mr As complaint. 
It noted that the debt had been transferred to a third party and it would ensure the interest 
and charges applied to his account were removed. It also said that it would contact the credit 
reference agency to remove the records applied by 118118 Money in regard to this account.
Our investigator thought the redress offered by 118118 Money in response to Mr As 
complaint - being to remove all interest and charges and amend his credit file  was 
reasonable. He therefore didnt require 118118 Money to do anything further.
Mr A was still concerned about the default applied to his credit file and how this would be 
dealt with as his debt had been sold to a third party.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My conclusions were as follows:
This complaint was initially about the default note being removed from Mr As credit card 
account. However, since Mr A referred this to this service, a further complaint about 
irresponsible lending was upheld. Given 118118 Money accepted that the credit card wasnt 
provided responsibly and provided a remedy to this (which included the removal of the 
default) I have considered whether this was reasonable and whether 118118 Money is 
required to do anything further.
When it is accepted that lending shouldnt have been provided, we wouldnt expect 118118 
Money to benefit from the lending and as such we would expect all interest and charges to 
be refunded. I understand this has happened which I find reasonable. The outstanding issue 
relates to the default.
118118 Money has said it would contact the credit reference agencies to ask for the records 
applied to Mr As credit file by 118118 Money to be removed. I find this reasonable, and I 
understand this has also happened. It is reasonable that Mr A remains responsible for any 
capital amount outstanding as he will have had the benefit of the funds.
However, 118118 Money transferred Mr As debt to a third party in October 2022. There is 
nothing wrong with this action and I can see that Mr A was informed as we would expect. 
However, given 118118 Money upheld Mr As irresponsible lending complaint, we would 
expect it to put Mr A back in the position he would have been had the lending not been 
provided. While it has taken most of the actions expected, we would expect it to ensure all 
negative information is removed from Mr As credit file, once any outstanding capital balance 
has been repaid by Mr A (post the adjustments for the refunded fees, charges and interest). 
In this case I understand that 118118 Money has already removed the adverse information it 
has recorded but I would expect it to ensure (once the outstanding balance has been repaid) 
that any adverse information is removed which includes any adverse information recorded 
by the third-party owner of the debt. If 118118 Money isnt able to do this, it should buy back 
the debt and ensure the required actions are taken.
No further information was provided in response to my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed. 
As I set out in my provisional decision 118118 Money has taken most of the actions we 
would expect it to take when it is accepted that lending has occurred irresponsibly. But Mr A 
was concerned that due to his debt being sold to a third-party adverse information may still 
be recorded on his credit file. In this case we would expect 118118 Money to ensure all 
negative information is removed from Mr As credit file, once any outstanding capital balance 
has been repaid by Mr A (post the adjustments for the refunded fees, charges and interest), 
including any adverse information recorded by the third-party owner of the debt. If 118118 
Money isnt able to do this, it should buy back the debt and ensure the required actions are 
taken.
Putting things right
In additional to the actions already taken, Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money 
should confirm that all adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in regard to the 
account (including any recorded by the third-party owner of the debt) will be removed once 
the outstanding balance has been repaid.
My final decision
My final decision is that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman