DRN-4060910
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) treated him unfairly when 
declining his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application.
What happened
Mr F applied to TMW for a BTL mortgage on a property he owns to release funds and 
complete work on the property. 
The application was declined by TMW after being referred to its underwriters. During the due 
diligence for the application, TMW identified a third-party person linked to Mr Fs credit file. 
Mr F provided a court order that confirmed the third-party had no interest in properties 
owned by Mr F. He felt this should suffice to show there was no risk of the third party adding 
a risk to his credit worthiness and the borrowing should be provided.
TMW reviewed this but said until the link to the third-party was removed from Mr Fs credit 
file, TMW was unable to offer the mortgage because the application didnt meet its lending 
criteria.
Mr F says hes lost out as a result of the application being declined as hes needed to source 
the funds for work elsewhere and this has impacted the profit margin on the property.
Our investigator looked at Mr Fs complaint and said that he believed TMW acted fairly when 
declining the application. He was satisfied it had applied the lending criteria correctly and 
TMW didnt need to provide credit to Mr F if this wasnt met.
Mr F disagreed the assessment was fair. He explained how hes taken mortgages at 
different points with different lenders. He said the court order separates the third party from 
him as a matter of fact and so the third parties creditors would have no means to recover 
equity from Mr Fs property. He feels TMW has acted unreasonably in its decision not to lend 
and he asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr F, but Ill explain why this is the case.
I think it is important to note from the outset that the actions of other lenders and their 
decisions to lend to Mr F cannot be taken to show that TMW has acted unfairly when 
declining the application for the BTL. Each lender has its own lending criteria and builds 
within this, its appetite to risk.
I understand that Mr F feels the court order should suffice to satisfy TMW that the 
association with the third-party is not an issue. But it is the association and link on Mr Fs 
credit file that TMW has said needs to be removed. It has been clear that once there is no 
link on Mr Fs credit file that it will be able to reconsider the application. But in the absence of 
this, it is unable to do this. 
Having reviewed TMWs lending criteria, Im satisfied it has applied this correctly and acted 
fairly when explaining this to Mr F.
Each business will have different criteria for lending, so as Ive said above, other lenders 
actions can not be taken to show TMW has done anything wrong. And as it has applied its 
lending criteria correctly, Im not persuaded it has acted unreasonably or treated Mr F 
unfairly when declining his application. So it follows that I see no reason to direct it to do 
anything else in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman