DRN-3468210
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC made the decision to close his accounts and 
havent given him a specific reason as to why. 
What happened
On 29 November 2021, Barclays sent Mr S a letter advising that theyd taken the decision to 
close his accounts and all facilities from 28 January 2022. Mr S wasnt happy about this, 
especially as Barclays hadnt provided a reason as to why theyd decided to close his 
accounts. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ss complaint. They confirmed theyd undertaken a review of Mr Ss 
accounts, and that the decision to close the accounts had been taken following that review. 
Barclays also confirmed they wouldnt be providing any further information to Mr S as to why 
theyd taken the decision to close his accounts following the review.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mr S in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr S might be unhappy to have been given notice by Barclays of their 
intention to close his accounts and to not have been told the reasons why Barclays had 
decided to close his accounts.
However, the terms of Mr Ss accounts do include that Barclays can close those accounts 
without providing a reason if they chose to do so, so long as they provide Mr S with at least 
two months notice that his accounts will be closed.
In this instance, Barclays sent a letter to Mr S dated 29 November 2021 which advised Mr S 
his accounts would be closed from 28 January 2022. So, Im satisfied Barclays did provide 
Mr S with two months notice of their intention to close his accounts, in line with their terms.
This service has also obtained more detailed information from Barclays as to why they made 
the decision to close Mr Ss accounts, so as to confirm whether or not Barclays actions could 
be considered as being unfair. And while Im not at liberty to disclose this information to Mr S 
as he might like, Id like to reassure Mr S that having reviewed the further information that 
Barclays have provided, I dont feel Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr S by choosing 
to close his accounts as they did. 
I say this because Im satisfied both that Barclays decision to close the accounts was based 
on fair and legitimate reasoning, and that the decision to close the accounts would have 
been applied to all other Barclays customers where this particular reasoning applied.
I realise that the above explanation may seem unsatisfactory to Mr S, and I appreciate that 
he might want to know the full reasons for Barclays making the decision to close his 
accounts that they did. But ultimately, Barclays arent obliged to provide this information to 
Mr S. And in consideration of everything that Ive considered when assessing this complaint, 
I dont feel that Barclays are acting unfairly towards Mr S by not providing more detailed 
information to him.
All of which means that, while I can understand Mr Ss frustration, I find it very difficult to 
conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr S in the manner that he believes 
here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays 
to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman