DRN-3724829
The complaint
Mrs G, through her representative, complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC, lent to her 
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mrs G applied for one loan in July 2015. It was approved for £1,300 with a  total charge for 
credit of £584.66 which made a total to pay of £1,884.66 over 36 payments of just over £52 
each. Mrs G repaid the bulk of it in August 2018 and the final £12 in October 2018. 
Mrs G complained and AvantCredit issued its final response letter in June 2022  it did not 
uphold Mrs Gs complaint. So, she referred it to the Financial Ombudsman and one of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint. 
He had sight of the information AvantCredit had at the time she applied and that included a 
credit search it had carried out plus copies of about one month of a recent bank statement  
screenshots only. 
Our adjudicator considered that she had too much recent debt plus two historic defaults all of 
which indicated, in his view, that she was already in a position where she was struggling to 
pay her existing debts. And so, he thought there was a significant risk that Mrs G would not 
be able to make her repayments to AvantCredit without borrowing again. 
AvantCredit disagreed and it said that it knew Mrs G had two defaults which had occurred 
some time before she had applied to AvantCredit. From reviewing her bank statements 
Avant Credit said that it thought it likely that two payments adding up to around £130 a 
month were probably to cover those. It challenged our adjudicators view that obtaining a 
credit card just before Mrs G applied to AvantCredit for the loan was unfair. It did not think 
that showed a sign of debt struggles. 
AvantCredit listed the 16 active credit accounts Mrs G had, and about which it knew, at the 
time of her application. Ill come back to this in the main part of the decision. 
Avant Credit asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Avant completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs G  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mrs G wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs G and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs G. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mrs G undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs G. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint, and I have decided to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint.
The checks AvantCredit carried out were proportionate as it obtained a credit search, it 
spoke to her and obtained details of her financial situation and it looked at some bank 
account statements for the period leading up to 29 July 2015. And as this was a loan of 
£1,300 over 36 months (three years) then anything less would likely not have been enough. 
Our adjudicator picked up on Mrs Gs recent credit history which had included two defaults 
and her bank statements do show she was paying some debt collectors money each month. 
Our adjudicator had identified two home credit loans taken relatively recently by Mrs G plus 
a payday loan, also commenced just before this loan application to AvantCredit. In response 
to that, AvantCredit set out some of its own calculations and I have reviewed them. 
Mrs G earned around £1,708 each month and I do note from the loan account customer 
notes that AvantCredit had reduced her declared income of around £1,900 a month due to 
its own research. AvantCredit has demonstrated that it knew Mrs G had 16 active credit 
accounts at the time and explained:After taking the AvantCredit loan the customer would have a [sic] new monthly 
unsecured credit commitments at an estimated £821.70 (£391.35 of regular payment 
and £430.35 to make above minimum payments) which is 48% of the customers 
stated income.
 
AvantCredit had calculated that Mrs Gs general living expenses was about £859 (rounded) 
and so when added to the figures above (after taking into account the AvantCredit loan) then 
Mrs G would have been left with about £27 or £28 a month. 
I consider this too low a figure. For a loan spread over three years I think that this calculation 
is tight and leaves absolutely no scope for any slight change in any of her loan or general 
living expenses. I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.   
Putting things right
AvantCredit neds to do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs G received as a result of having been given 
her loan. The repayments Mrs G made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs G having paid more than they received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
remove any negative payment information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file relating to 
the loan. Although as the final payment was around October 2018 it may be removed 
from her credit file soon due to the six years having passed. 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I direct that AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
does as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman