DRN-1567958
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
April 2006 alongside a further advance. Mr P and Miss W say Santander UK Plc mis-sold 
them the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didn't think Mr P and Miss W's complaint should be upheld. Mr P and Miss 
W didn't agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr P and Miss W's complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr P and Miss W's 
consent before adding the policy. Mr P and Miss W say the advisor didn't make them aware 
the MPPI was optional. 
As the mortgage and MPPI were arranged during a meeting I dont know what was 
discussed. So Ive considered Mr P and Miss W's comments alongside the paperwork we 
have and what I know in general about how Santander sold these types of policies.
Santander has provided us with the 'customer profile review' which is all the information the 
adviser gathered at the time the MPPI was sold. This includes details of Mr P's personal 
circumstances and his various needs for the mortgage. There is a section within this review 
specifically for MPPI and it states that Mr P wanted to look at the protection options available 
should he be out of work. It seems that at the time accident and sickness cover was of 
significance to Mr P as the MPPI provided cover for this, and not for unemployment. So 
whilst I cant say for certain what was discussed, I think its likely that the MPPI and the 
extent of the cover it would provide  wouldve been spoken about.
Santander has also provided the mortgage offer which would've been sent to Mr P and Miss 
W following their meeting. The mortgage offer summarised their further advance and there is 
a section which specifically states they do not need to take out any insurance with 
Santander. So I think if Mr P and Miss W werent sure about the MPPI I think they wouldve 
questioned it at this stage. The MPPI wouldve also appeared on their statements, and I 
wouldve expected them to query this sooner.
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented
as optional, although I can understand why Mr P and Miss W may not remember this as it 
was so long ago.Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr P and Miss W. The MPPI provided cover for Mr P 
only so it had to check that the MPPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because:
Mr P was eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem Mr P was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover - like known medical conditions.
Mr P says that he would've received some employer benefits if he was off work for 
accident or sickness, so he didn't need the MPPI. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 
months if Mr P was off work due to accident or sickness. And any employee benefits 
could be used to help cover every day expenses or other financial commitments. 
 
Mr P and Miss W were taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that their 
repayments wouldve been made if Mr P was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness wouldve been important to them.
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr P and Miss W about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr P and Miss W have said but these points dont change 
my decision  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman