DRN-2815072
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Amtrust International Underwriters DAC dealt with his claim on 
his mechanical breakdown insurance policy and that it didnt cover the claim up to the policy 
limit.  
What happened
Mr Gs car broke down, so he took it to a garage for repair which is on Amtrusts list of 
approved repairers. The garage had some difficulty identifying the fault with his car, so Mr G 
moved it to another approved repairer who also had some difficulties identifying the fault. He 
then moved it to a manufacturing specialist garage who diagnosed the fault. 
Mr G submitted a claim to Amtrust which was accepted and Amtrust paid a contribution to 
the repair. Mr G didnt think this was good enough and complained, he said Amtrust hadnt 
paid enough to repair his car and it was taking too long to repair. 
Amtrust looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had approved its contribution 
to the repair but apologised for any difficulties Mr G may have had. Mr G didnt agree and 
referred his complaint here. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and found that Amtrust hadnt explained why it 
hadnt paid the full repair cost, subject to the policy terms and conditions. So, he 
recommended Amtrust pay the full repair cost, in line with the policy terms, plus 8% simple 
interest to compensate Mr G for not having the money. Our Investigator didnt think Amtrust 
was responsible for the delays in repair as the policy says it will only contribute towards the 
repairs and not repair Mr Gs car. So, while there were delays with the garages, he didnt 
think these were Amtrusts fault. Mr G disagreed, he said he should be compensated more 
for the length of time it was taking to repair his car. 
As Mr G didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy say: This Insurance will contribute towards the 
cost of repairs required to Your Vehicle, due to unexpected mechanical or electrical 
Breakdowns occurring within the Period of Cover, limited to the maximum Claim Limit(s) 
defined under Terms used in this insurance. The terms go onto say all mechanical and 
electrical parts are covered, except those specifically excluded and then provides a list of 
those parts. 
I can see that when Mr G initially claimed Amtrust didnt pay or explain why it hadnt made a 
contribution for the whole repair cost. Because of this our Investigator recommended Mr Gs 
complaint be upheld and Amtrust pays the whole repair cost, subject to the policy terms and 
conditions. Amtrust accepted this and said it was raising payment for the additional amount 
along with the 8% simple interest per year. As Amtrust accept this and Mr G is satisfied with 
this aspect of his complaint I wont consider it further here as Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable.
Ive considered Mr Gs point about Amtrust paying him additional compensation for the 
length of time his repair has taken. I feel it would help to explain a bit about the policy Mr G 
has. His policy covers him for a contribution towards the cost of repairs. This means Amtrust 
isnt responsible for repairing Mr Gs car, just for paying towards the cost of repair. Its 
therefore not fair and reasonable for me to hold Amtrust responsible for delays with the 
garages. It follows that Im not going to ask Amtrust to do anymore.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to pay Mr G the full repair cost for his car, subject to the policy terms and 
conditions, if it hasnt already done so. Amtrust International Underwriters DAC should also 
add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, calculated from the date Mr G paid it until 
the date it makes settlement.  
If Amtrust International Underwriters DAC considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman