DRN-4333504
The complaint
Mr B and Miss C complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined their claim and 
cancelled their travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents.     
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2022, Mr B and Miss C took out an annual travel 
insurance policy via a price comparison website for themselves and their infant son, who 
Ill refer to as T. The policy was underwritten by IPA and started on 2 May 2022. In    
June 2022, whilst on a trip, T caught Covid-19. Mr B and Miss C sought medical 
treatment for him, as he was struggling to breathe. They made a claim against the policy.  
IPA declined the claim, cancelled the policy, and refunded the premium to                      
Mr B and Miss C. It said that T had pre-existing medical conditions and the policy wasnt 
one they should have had. Mr B and Miss C didnt think that was fair and pursued their 
complaint. In response to their complaint, IPA maintained its position in relation to the 
claim but offered compensation of £100 in relation to its handling of their claim. 
Mr B and Miss C say that when they took out the policy, they were asked about 
conditions like diabetes, depression, high blood pressure or asthma. As T doesnt suffer 
from those conditions, they selected No and went on to purchase the policy.                  
Mr B and Miss C say that theyve repeated the sales journey and theres nowhere to 
declare some of the minor things about which theyve sought medical advice for T and 
after disclosing conjunctivitis and croup the premium only increased slightly. They want 
IPA to deal with their claim. Mr B and Miss C say that they would have at least expected 
a proportional settlement.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that IPA hadnt asked 
Mr B and Miss C a clear question about pre-existing medical conditions and hadnt 
shown what it would have done if the conditions had been disclosed. The investigator 
recommended that IPA reconsider Mr B and Miss Cs claim in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy. 
Mr B and Miss C accepted the investigators recommendation, but IPA didnt. It said, in 
summary:
The question it asked explains exactly what conditions Mr B and Miss C needed 
to declare during the sales process. Miss C ticked the box that indicated that 
shed read the important information and proceeded to purchase the policy. In a 
similar case, this service said that an insurer isnt responsible for whether a 
customer reads the information. 
If the eligibility questions had been answered correctly, Mr B and Miss C would 
have been given a different list of policies that suited their needs. The policy 
purchased doesnt cover anyone with a medical history. This service has 
supported that position in similar complaints. 
The investigator considered what IPA said but didnt change her view. IPA asked that an 
ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision 
On 22 August 2023 I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to uphold      
Mr B and Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
IPA has referred to previous cases with this service. Each case is considered on its 
own facts, and we dont issue binding precedents. So, Ive looked at this complaint 
on its own facts and merits. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
IPA thinks that Mr B and Miss C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they took out the policy in that they didnt declare Ts       
pre-existing conditions. 
 
Its important to establish what questions IPA asked of Mr B and Miss C in this case. 
IPA has now provided what it says are historic screenshots which show what Miss C 
saw when she and Mr B bought the policy. Miss C says that after IPA declined her 
claim, she asked the price comparison website for a copy of the question she was 
asked. IPA says that the question Miss C has provided from the price comparison 
site is the current question, which was changed after Mr B and Miss C took out the 
policy. I proceed on the basis that IPA has provided screenshots of what Miss C saw 
when she purchased the policy. 
IPA says that it doesnt own or control the price comparison website. The price 
comparison websites part of the sales journey contained the following: 
Do any of these travellers have a pre-existing medical condition? 
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your 
medical history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your 
policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and respiratory 
conditions (including asthma).You do not need to declare pregnancy as a medical 
condition.Mr B and Miss C ticked the box marked No and proceeded to the Policyholder 
Details page. I dont think that the question Ive set out above is clear as it doesnt 
explain what is meant by a pre-existing condition. And the examples it gives  
diabetes, high blood pressure, depression, and respiratory conditions (including 
asthma) - didnt relate to T and are serious, long term conditions T didnt have. But 
thats not the end of the matter as Mr B and Miss C continued the sales journey and 
were asked questions by IPA.   
On the Policyholder Details page, Mr B and Miss C were asked by IPA to confirm 
that they had read the Important Information which says as follows:
Important Information
[]
Please note that the policy you have selected will only be suitable if you and anyone 
you wish to insure can answer no to the following questions. 
1) Within the last 2 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy 
suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication (including 
repeat prescriptions) and/or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?
2) Are you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy:
a) awaiting a diagnosis, surgery, treatment, tests or investigations (or their results) for 
any medical condition, or suffering symptoms that have not yet been discussed with 
a doctor? []
If you can answer no to the questions above, please select confirm & pay now to 
proceed. 
If anyone you wish to insure is unable to answer no to the questions above, please 
request a quote for policies that cover pre-existing medical conditions using the link 
below
Show me policies for people with pre-existing medical conditions
In fact, Mr B and Miss C couldnt answer no to IPAs question about medical 
conditions in the last two years as T had several medical conditions in his medical 
history including conditions which led to referrals to paediatric endocrinology, 
orthopaedics and a dietician, and conjunctivitis. And T was waiting for paediatric 
endocrinology investigations at the time. So, Mr B and Miss C should have asked for 
a quote for a policy that covers pre-existing conditions. 
I think that IPA was entitled to rely on Mr B and Miss Cs indication that theyd read 
the Important Information and therefore that they could answer no to the 
question about medical conditions. But Mr B and Miss C shouldnt have proceeded 
with the purchase as T had suffered from medical conditions requiring prescribed 
medication or treatment, including surgery, tests, or investigation within the relevant 
period.  Ive noted that Mr B and Miss C say that like a lot of new-borns in winter, T 
developed croup and conjunctivitis and whilst these were minor, they had to seek 
medical advice and treatment because of his age and the fact that over-the-counter 
medication wasnt available. I dont think that alters the outcome here. Thats 
because the questions IPA asked were clear and T had a number of medical 
conditions that should have been disclosed. 
Mr B and Miss C have repeated the sales process and say that there isnt an option 
to disclose some of Ts medical conditions. But it remains the case that if Mr B and 
Miss C had responded correctly to the question about medical conditions within the 
previous two years, they wouldnt have been able to proceed to purchase the policy. 
I dont think that IPA was at fault in concluding that Mr B and Miss C hadnt taken 
reasonable care in answering the questions it put to them.  
 
IPA says that if Mr B and Miss C had answered the questions accurately, they would 
have been redirected back to the price comparison websites panel of insurers and 
wouldnt have been able to proceed with the purchase of the policy. This means Im 
satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Mr B and Miss C have referred to the possibility of a proportional settlement. There 
are no grounds on which I can fairly direct IPA to settle their claim on that basis. 
Thats because Im satisfied that if Mr B and Miss C had answered the questions put 
to them accurately, IPA wouldnt have offered them the policy. 
IPA declined the claim, cancelled the policy, and refunded the premium. It was 
entitled to do that, and I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
IPA accepted my provisional decision. Miss C responded to say that whilst she didnt agree 
with the outcome, they accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B, Miss C nor IPA have provided any fresh information or evidence in response to 
my provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier 
conclusions. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that IPA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the claim, cancelling the policy and refunding the premium. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman