DRN-3838853
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined their request for a term extension 
on their interest-only mortgage. To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs R would like Santander 
to agree to extend the mortgage term for five years, until Mr R reaches the age of 75.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 21 October 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs R being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs Rs interest-only mortgage is due to expire in January 2024. In early 
2022 Mr R, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, contacted Santander to request a 
term extension. However, Santander explained that it could not extend the mortgage term 
beyond Mr Rs 70th birthday, which was the maximum lending age Santander would allow for 
an interest-only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Santander, but the bank didnt uphold the complaint. Santander 
acknowledged that Mrs R is younger than Mr R but the banks lending criteria applied to the 
first borrower to reach the age of 70. Santander said that it would consider a term extension, 
subject to application, but this would be on a capital repayment basis. (I note Santanders 
maximum age limit for a capital repayment mortgage is 75 years of age.)
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He explained that Santander was entitled to apply an age-based limit to lending, but 
the bank hadnt provided details of the risk assessment it had used for this. As a result, he 
wasnt able to confirm if Santander had applied its policy fairly.
But notwithstanding this, the investigator didnt think that, even if Santander had provided 
this information, Santander was required to grant a term extension. Thats because Mr R had 
confirmed that he had options, such as pension lump sums and a holiday property that could 
be sold. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings and had a long discussion with the 
investigator, which Ive listened to, and which I summarise below.
Mr R thought that if he didnt have the options of his pensions and selling the other property, 
then he thought our service would tell Santander to extend the mortgage year-by-year. Mr R 
thought that, by extending the mortgage until he was 75, this would maximise the tax 
benefits hed be entitled to from his pensions. 
Mr R wanted Santander to do him a favour by extending the mortgage. Mr R said that he 
has been a good payer and so couldnt see any reason why Santander wouldnt extend the 
mortgage. 
Mr R was concerned that Santander hadnt sent us the risk assessment it used when setting 
its upper age limit for mortgage lending.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that the binding contract entered into between Mr and Mrs R and 
Santander in 2007 provides that the full balance is repaid at the end of the 16-year term. I 
note Mr and Mrs R have been making overpayments, and have reduced the balance. 
However, there is still a substantial amount left to be repaid, about £70,000.
Santander has said that it will not extend the interest-only mortgage beyond Mr Rs 70th 
birthday, which is Santanders upper age limit. Financial services providers are entitled 
under the Equality Act 2010 to apply age limits to financial products. Santander is also 
allowed to set its own lending criteria, based on its risk appetite and commercial 
consideration. I dont have the power to interfere with this or to tell Santander who to lend to, 
or on what terms.
Mr R has focussed much of his concerns on Santanders decision not to send us the risk 
assessment it has used when setting its upper age limit for interest-only mortgages. 
Santander has provided me with some information about its lending policies, which I am 
entitled to keep confidential, as it is commercially sensitive, but I dont have the risk 
assessment. If I thought it was necessary, this is something I have asked Santander to 
provide as part of the complaint and something Id usually consider, if I felt it was relevant 
when considering the facts of the case. In Mr and Mrs Rs case, however, Im not persuaded 
it is, for reasons Ill explain. 
Ive noted what Mr R has told us about his and Mrs Rs circumstances. They own another 
property, originally purchased for their children while they were at university, but now used 
as a holiday home. Mr R said that hes thought about selling this house or renting it out, but 
the family still wants to use it. Mr R has also explained that he has pension funds from which 
he can draw lump sums, but would like to maximise the tax benefits from these by drawing 
on them later rather than sooner. 
From listening to Mr Rs conversation with the investigator, the clear impression I have is 
that Mr R has the resources available to repay the outstanding balance owed on the 
mortgage at the end of the term, but would prefer not to do so. Im not persuaded that this is 
a compelling argument that would justify a term extension. Overall, Im not persuaded 
Santander has acted unreasonably in declining to extend the mortgage on an interest-only 
basis beyond Mr Rs 70th birthday. 
I must explain that Mr R is mistaken in his belief that, if he had no resources to repay the 
mortgage, I would tell Santander to extend the term on a year-by-year basis. That is 
incorrect. Where a mortgage term has come to an end and there is no basis on which it can 
be extended and no repayment vehicle, we would generally allow a short period of time 
(usually around 3 months) for the property to be sold or re-mortgaged. I am explaining this 
because I dont want Mr R to think hes being disadvantaged because he has options to pay off the mortgage when other borrowers do not. So if the mortgage term comes to an end and 
Mr and Mrs R dont repay the balance, we wouldnt expect Santander to treat them 
differently from borrowers who dont have repayment options.
Mr R has proposed that, if the mortgage is extended on interest-only for five years, he will 
make regular overpayments at his convenience to clear the balance. Mr R also said that, 
although Santander had given him quotes for a capital repayment mortgage, those figures 
will now have changed, which I think is probably right, given that interest rates have 
increased.
Santander has said that it will consider  if an application is made  a capital repayment 
mortgage which could (if the application succeeds) run until Mr Rs 75th birthday. However, 
this would require a commitment from Mr and Mrs R to make regular monthly payments, 
rather than ad hoc payments as and when it suited Mr R to do so, which is what he thought 
would be a reasonable outcome. I think Santanders offer to consider an application for a 
capital repayment mortgage is reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont think Santander is 
required to do anything more than this.
This means that I am not upholding the complaint about Santanders refusal to extend the 
mortgage term on an interest-only basis.
If Mr and Mrs R want to apply to Santander for a capital repayment mortgage, they should 
contact the bank to speak to a mortgage adviser. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs R could (if they 
wanted to) speak to an independent financial adviser to see if there are better deals 
available from other lenders. 
Some lenders (not Santander) offer Retirement Interest Only mortgages, where borrowers 
make monthly interest payments, and only pay off the capital when the last surviving 
borrower dies or goes into nursing care. There are also equity release mortgages, where no 
monthly repayments are made, and the interest rolls up into the outstanding balance, with 
the whole amount payable when the last surviving borrower dies or goes into nursing care. 
Other lenders offering conventional mortgages have different lending and age criteria. 
So there are likely to be alternative mortgage options available, and a financial adviser would 
be in the best position to discuss these with Mr and Mrs R. They can find details of financial 
advisers on the Financial Conduct Authority website.
If Mr and Mrs R decide not to accept my decision, they will be free to pursue their grievances 
against Santander in court. This would include any claim they might want to make about age 
discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court 
and so I dont have the power to determine whether or not Santander is in breach of that Act; 
only a court has the power to do this.
I hope Mr and Mrs R are able to reach an agreement with Santander about paying off their 
mortgage, whether that is at the end of the 16-year interest-only term, or by arranging a new 
capital repayment mortgage with Santander or via a re-mortgage with another lender.
But for the reasons Ive given above, Im unable to find Santander has treated Mr and Mrs R 
unfairly or that it has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman