DRN-3713140
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a claim 
for damage under a home insurance policy he holds jointly with Mrs H.
All references to Lloyds include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr H called Lloyds after a section of his garden wall collapsed. 
Lloyds considered the damage but turned down the claim. It said it believed the damage had 
occurred gradually and was excluded from the policy. Lloyds also said there wasnt a one-off 
insured event for it to consider under the policy.
Mr H disagreed and complained. He then said the probable cause of damage was accidental 
due to a vehicle collision. Lloyds reviewed the claim and maintained its decision to turn it 
down. Lloyds said there wasnt sufficient evidence to support a vehicle collision.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. In summary he said Lloyds:
Hadnt investigated his claim correctly.
Hadnt sent an expert out to do a site visit.
Implied he was dishonest in taking out the policy and claiming.
Have been unprofessional in investigating the claim.
Declined the claim on prejudice and perceived costs as opposed to the facts.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
concluded Lloyds acted reasonably in turning down Mr Hs claim. They said they were more 
persuaded by Lloyds experts conclusion that the damage happened gradually. And they 
didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr H unfairly on the calls they listened to.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In addition to the points previously 
raised he added that:
He didnt agree with Lloyds explanation of how the wall collapsed.
Lloyds looked at the wrong property when deciding his claim remotely.
His complaint was against the seller of the policy, and not Lloyds.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr H has questioned whether the complaint has been considered against the correct 
business. Ive checked the policy documents and I can see that Lloyds is stated as 
the underwriter of the policy. So, as Mr Hs complaint is regarding a claim (which is 
ultimately the underwriters decision to accept or turn down), Im satisfied that Lloyds 
is the correct business to respond here.
Im not going to comment on every single point Mr H has raised, and I dont intend to 
cause a discourtesy by not doing so. My role isnt to determine exactly what caused 
the wall to fail, but rather to decide if Lloyds decision to turn down the claim was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Lloyds position is that it hasnt been shown that a one-off insured event was the 
predominant cause of the damage being claimed for. And that the damage was due 
to wear and tear over time.
Mr Hs position is that the wall was accidentally damaged by a vehicle collision and 
should be covered by his policy. 
Mr H holds an events-based policy. So, in a claim, the onus is on Mr H to show an 
insured event has occurred which is one of the listed events in the policy. And if 
Lloyds has applied an exclusion, it needs to show it fairly applies. But if theres no 
insured event, as Lloyds has argued here, then the claim wont succeed in any case.
Ive listened to two calls Mr H made to Lloyds at the first notification of the loss. In the 
call, Mr H volunteers that theres been snow and bad weather recently, and he also 
says this may not have been the cause of the wall collapsing. 
Ive not heard anything on either call which would lead me to conclude Lloyds 
implicated Mr H was being dishonest. And I can hear that the agent reassures Mr H 
that the questions asked are the same as for any customer making a claim. So, I 
dont agree Lloyds acted unfairly here.
Mr H later provided an invoice from his builder which states, Collapse of Wall due to 
Road Traffic Accident and Movement of Existing Road and Earth. 
Ive considered Lloyds expert report from a party Ill refer to as P. Ps report is 
based on the photos Mr H provided of the damage and states, The roadside 
elevation exhibits no collapse and has no discernible damageThe method of failure 
from a vehicle impact would in any case be akin tocause both sides of the dry-
stone wall to collapse. Im persuaded that the photos Ive seen support Ps 
conclusion here.
Ps report also states, we see severe lateral bulging at the base of the wallwhere 
the pressure from the retained soil will be greatestwe see stones sticking out proud 
of the wall and this is another sign of the wall moving outwardsthe [stones] are 
weatheredand this is evidence that the displacement in those stones occurred a 
long time ago.
P concludes, The retained earth over time pushes the wall out too and there is no 
restraint to these forces. I note the wall infill is dry with lots of fines present. If water 
had travelled through the wall then I would expect the finer soil particles to have been 
washed awayThe wall collapse was an inevitable outcome following a long and 
gradual deterioration which has slowly deformed the stonework. I am satisfied, well 
beyond the balance of probabilities that the wall did not collapse because of a vehicle 
impact or from weight of snow or from any particular weather event.I acknowledge Mr H strongly disputes Lloyds investigation of the claim. And that 
some of its communications and investigations may not have been relevant to either 
a dry-stone wall, or his property. But ultimately, Im satisfied that Lloyds reached a 
reasonable outcome based on the available evidence (which included Mr Hs own 
photographs). Ive not seen anything other than the builders invoice to support the 
cause of damage being due to a vehicle collision. So, on balance, Im more 
persuaded by Ps report which concludes the wall collapse was due to a longer term, 
underlying issue.
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that Lloyds outcome was based on cost, but 
simply one where the policy wasnt able to respond because there was no insured 
event. I say this because I can see P also considered whether Mr Hs claim could be 
accepted as Accidental Damage in line with our services approach. P concluded the 
events leading up to the claim didnt meet the criteria for sudden damage and even if 
the claim was accepted, it would most likely be excluded due to longer term wear and 
tear. I find Ps conclusions reasonable in the circumstances here.
I note Mr H has suggested he couldve also claimed under the heave, subsidence or 
landslip section of the policy. But even if the wall collapsed because of one of these 
causes, the policy excludes damage to garden walls under this section. So, the claim 
wouldnt succeed here either.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman