DRN-3756725
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from BUOYANT GROUP LIMITED (previously
known as PAY WEEKLY LTD trading as Pay Weekly Carpets) in respect of a hire agreement
he took out with it for a carpet.
Mr L is represented in this complaint by a third party, but for ease I will simply refer to Mr L in
this decision rather than Mr L and the third party.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr Ls property was surveyed for the supply and fit of a number of floor
coverings.
Mr L paid for all the floor coverings in cash, with the exception of his lounge carpet, which
he paid for by way of hire agreement with Buoyant.
Following the survey Mr L was sent confirmation of his lounge carpet order and the hire
agreement details. Under the terms of the hire agreement Mr L (everything else being equal)
undertook to pay:
1 survey fee of £22 £22 (to the surveyor)
1 administration fee of £18 £18 (to Buoyant)
32 weekly instalments of £10 £320 (to Buoyant)
followed by annual hire payments (from year 2 onwards) of £1.
Mr L was also required to pay, on completion of the fitting of the lounge carpet, £50 to the
fitter  which he did.
Fitting of the lounge carpet was scheduled for 30 September 2020 but didnt take place until
3 October 2020. Mr L said he took a day off to accommodate the fitting date of
30 September 2020.
Unhappy with the service he had received, Mr L complained to our service.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately concluded that
Buoyant should pay Mr L £150 compensation less anything it had already paid by way of a
credit to Mr Ls account.
Both parties disagreed with the investigators finding, so Mr Ls complaint was passed
to me for review and decision.
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I would also like to reiterate what the investigator has explained to Mr L on a number of
occasions. And that is our service, and I specifically, can only consider (and will only be
considering) Mr Ls complaint to the extent that it relates to the hire agreement and the
supply (and fitting) of the carpet subject to that hire agreement. In other words, I cant
consider, and will not be considering, Mr Ls complaint to the extent that it relates to the
supply and fitting of any other floor coverings he purchased, or believes he purchased.
Mr L submitted to our service that Buoyant should have to compensate him for the distress
and inconvenience he suffered in trying, unsuccessfully, to contact it on a number of
occasions before his lounge carpet was ultimately fitted on 3 October 2020 and for having to
take a day off work on 30 September 2020 for the lounge carpet to be fitted, which it wasnt.
In an email to our service dated August 2021 Buoyant said that as a gesture of goodwill it
had credited Mr Ls account with £100 which cleared the amount outstanding [on Mr Ls
account] thereby closing [it]. And because of this it felt it shouldnt have to do anything
further in respect of Mr Ls complaint.
I dont underestimate Mr Ls strength of feeling, but Im satisfied that £100 (which Buoyant
says its already paid) constitutes adequate compensation for it to have to pay in this case. I
say this having considered, amongst other things, what Mr L has said about his unsuccessful
attempts to contact Buoyant (before the lounge carpet was ultimately fitted) and given that
Im not persuaded it was necessary for him to have taken the 30 September 2020 off work,
or that he lost a days wages by doing so.
Buoyant has made a number of submissions in support of its view that having credited
Mr Ls account with £100 it shouldnt have to pay anything further in compensation. But
because Im satisfied that £100 does indeed represent a fair compensation sum for Buoyant
to have to pay I make, nor do I need to make, any comment or findings on these
submissions.
Our service asked Buoyant to provide an up to date statement for Mr Ls account,
confirmation that the account had been closed  with nothing further due under it  and
confirmation that Mr L now owned the carpet and it had no further interest in it.
Our service also asked Mr L to provide evidence of the payments he had made against the
hire agreement.
Unfortunately, Buoyant didnt provide the information our service requested, and Mr L only
provided evidence of having paid £130 against the hire agreement (although I accept based
on what Buoyant has said and submitted, Mr L paid more than this). So, I cant say for
certain what Buoyant should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr L, and this
fact is reflected in my provisional decision below.
I then went on to say what Buoyant should do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr L.
Mr L responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary he reiterated 
the reasons for taking 30 September 2020 off work and to say that there had been a 
number of points that I hadnt commented on or addressed.After I had issued my provisional findings, Buoyant provided our service with a copy 
statement for Mr Ls account which showed:
£100 credit being applied to it on 12 February 2021
the account being cleared to £nil on 12 February 2021 with no credit balance 
accruing
the agreement status marked as complete (closed) 
the recurring amount and recurring period marked as n/a
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank Mr L for his various responses to my provisional decision. But Im 
satisfied he has provided nothing materially new for my consideration. But for the avoidance 
of doubt, I would like to confirm that in concluding £100 represents a fair and reasonable 
sum for Buoyant to have paid for the distress and inconvenience the whole matter  to the 
extent that it relates to, or could be said to relate to, the hire agreement  Ive had regard to 
what Mr L says Buoyant did before the hire agreement came into force, whilst it was in force 
and after it ceased to be in force including, but not restricted to, what Mr L says were threats 
from Buoyant to remove the carpet.
And because of this, and because Buoyant has now provided our service with a copy 
statement for Mr Ls account (and because what I understand this statement shows) I can 
confirm that all Buoyant now needs to do is confirm to Mr L (and our service) that it has no 
further interest in the (lounge) carpet.
My final decision
My final decision is that BUOYANT GROUP LIMITED must Confirm to Mr L (and our service) 
that it has no further interest in the (lounge) carpet, but it need do nothing more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman