DRN-2177343
The complaint
Miss B complained about 4 loans she took out through a company called PDL Finance 
Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Miss B says she was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused her financial problems. 
Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender to keep things simple.
What happened
Previously, one of our adjudicators had said 1 out of the 4 loans might be something wed 
recommend upholding, but they said that the first 3 loans all appeared to be sustainable for 
her, given the circumstances of the case.
However, I issued a provisional decision about this case in August 2020. And I set out why I 
didnt think the complaint shouldnt be upheld in respect of any of the loans. As well as 
agreeing with the adjudicator that loans 1  3 werent upholdable, I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint about loan 4 being unsustainable either.
I then gave both parties some time to think about my provisional findings and reply to me 
with any further information or evidence they had, within a month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve had a response from Mr Lender but nothing back from Miss B containing more 
information or evidence.
So, as I comprehensively explained in my provisional decision, I think the borrowing was 
sustainable for Miss B in all 4 loans. I think this is somewhat supported by her managing to 
pay off loans 1  3 on time, although I accept Miss B says she was also finding getting-by 
financially quite difficult at around that time. 
I think its also fair to say Mr Lenders financial checks about Miss Bs circumstances ought 
to have become more comprehensive as time went on, perhaps by verifying other 
disclosures about her financial situation or viewing her bank statements. However, I havent 
been shown any evidence which shows such checks would have actually made any 
difference to the lending decision here; I still think Miss Bs salary was high enough to cover 
the payments due for loan number 4, just as it was for loans 1 - 3.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss B and as Ive said, I certainly dont wish to imply she hasnt 
experienced financial challenges. However, I think she earned a reasonable amount at the 
time, set against what these loans were costing. I dont have enough evidence she was 
unable to pay for loan 4 or that it was unsustainable. The best evidence of this is her monthly 
net salary amount and her full repayments of loans 1  3, all of which were for broadly 
similar amounts. 
At some point the uninterrupted lending pattern would have become inappropriate in the way 
our adjudicator previously pointed out. But I dont think it had reached that stage by loan 
number 4 in this particular case, given the timescales involved. In addition to loans 1  3 not 
being upheld therefore, I dont uphold the complaint in respect of loan 4 either.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about any of these loans. And dont require PDL Finance 
Limited to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman