DRN-3333100
The complaint
Mr A says AFH Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH)  
Did not deliver to him the ongoing service for his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP), especially with regards to annual reviews, that he contracted and paid for in 
2014; besides an annual review in 2015 no other such review was conducted; this 
remained the case up to when he complained in November 2020 and up to when he 
terminated its service in January 2021. [issue 1]
Did not deliver a service for his best interest, in terms of the discretionary 
management of his SIPP portfolio; instead its management was affected by a conflict 
of interest, whereby weighting within the portfolio was changed and given in favour of 
AFHs in-house funds despite the previous funds being better performers with longer 
track records; and that led to a loss of performance. [issue 2]
Applied a Negative Interest Charge (NIC)  for holding cash  to his account starting 
from April 2020 (and after liquidation (to cash) of the SIPP portfolio in March 2020) 
that was neither disclosed to him nor agreed by him at the outset of the service. 
[issue 3]  
Continued to apply the fee for discretionary management of the SIPP portfolio  
and/or failed to advise him to terminate the service (and the fee)  after liquidation of 
the portfolio, up to the point of his complaint and thereafter; the liquidation to cash 
obviously meant that the discretionary investment management service was no 
longer required and that continued application of the associated fee was 
unnecessary. [issue 4]
Mr A says AFH should refund the fees/charges related to the above issues. AFH disputes 
the complaint. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, but he endorsed AFHs settlement offer with regards to a part of issue 4. He mainly 
said:
In terms of background  prior to 2014 Mr A received service from a different firm; in 
2014 his account was moved to AFH; it conducted a review, featuring his objectives 
(financial security for his partner in the future and immediate (and ongoing) 
retirement income for him), and in its September 2014 retirement planning report it 
recommended the SIPP (with Pension Commencement Lump Sum and income 
drawdown facility, and with discretionary investment management); Mr A agreed and 
his pension was transferred to the SIPP; a fee (1% of the transfer value) applied for 
the initial transfer related advice and arrangements, and then another fee (1% of the 
value of the SIPPs investments) applied for the ongoing advice service (provided by 
AFH) and the discretionary investment management service (provided by an agent of 
AFH); the relationship continued until Mr A terminated it; and the transfer of his 
account to a new firm was completed in March 2021.
With regards to face to face annual reviews [issue 1], even though none happened 
after 2015 there is evidence of an annual review offer to Mr A in 2017 which he 
declined. There is also evidence that AFH provided the ongoing advisory service he 
sought during the relationship and that the absence of annual reviews after 2015 did 
not impact on the service he received. He was in regular contact with his AFH 
adviser throughout, there is detailed evidence of this showing that his needs and 
enquiries were discussed and actioned in the course of these contacts. Given these 
circumstances, and despite the missing annual reviews, he received the benefit of 
the ongoing advisory service and AFH should not have to refund the associated fees.
In terms of the discretionary management service [issue 2], Mr A agreed a risk profile 
for this and evidence is that the AFH funds he cites suitably matched that profile. He 
had an active management arrangement in the service, which meant the managers 
could change the SIPP portfolio  in line with his profile, when deemed suitable and 
on a discretionary basis  without having to provide him with documentation or seek 
his consent. He appears to have gained confidence in the AFH funds until an 
investment report in January 2019 showed a drop in performance.
The portfolio liquidation happened against AFHs advice  it advised Mr A to hold 
the portfolio as it was but he instructed its liquidation to cash. With regards to the NIC 
that was applied to the cash holding [issue 3], there is a Key Features Document 
(KFD) for the ongoing service that refers to such a charge applying to uninvested 
cash holdings, but it is not clear that this KFD was ever issued to Mr A as it should 
have been. The next question to consider is if awareness of the NIC, specifically, 
would have made a difference to his decision to liquidate the portfolio. He intended to 
liquidate the portfolio. In order to avoid the NIC he would have had to do that and 
then stop the ongoing service. Evidence shows that he intended to and proceeded to 
continue receiving advice from AFH after the liquidation and that he also intended to 
reinvest the cash holding when the market effects of the 2020 pandemic settled. In 
these circumstances, it is unlikely he would have wanted to cancel the service 
immediately. He could have considered changing advisers and resetting his pension 
arrangements but evidence is that he did not have cause to do so until later in 2020 
after his relationship with AFH broke down. Overall, it is unlikely that awareness of 
the NIC would have made a difference to his liquidation decision.
With regards to continuation of the fee covering the discretionary management 
service [issue 4] AFH accepts that this service (and the associated fee) should have 
been stopped when Mr A complained (and referred to the services cancellation) in 
November 2020. It has offered to refund the associated fee that was applied 
thereafter. This is reasonable and AFH should not have to refund the fees that were 
applied prior to this point. The discretionary service was coupled with the ongoing 
advice service. Prior to his complaint he was timing his SIPPs return to/reinvestment 
in the market and he needed AFHs advice for that, so he still required its service.
Mr A disagrees with this outcome and wants an ombudsmans decision. He mainly says  
His decision to liquidate the SIPPs investments was not taken lightly, but it was a 
sincere decision he made, having had no assurances or plan from AFH at the time, in 
order to preserve value in the SIPP in the face of market uncertainty; his decision 
ought reasonably to have prompted AFH to advise him on ongoing charges, but it did 
not do that.Whether (or not) he would have liquidated the SIPP if he was aware of the NIC is the 
wrong question to consider, the correct question is whether (or not) the NIC and the 
associated KFD are enforceable. 
It was implicit within the liquidation that he had withdrawn from the discretionary 
management service  because there were no longer SIPP funds under 
management  and that he did not need the service, so there was no service to 
warrant the continuing fees and AFH should have advised its termination.
The correspondence from 2017 that has been cited does not show that he never 
wanted a review and there is correspondence from 2019 in which he expressly 
sought, without success, a meeting with AFH to discuss his SIPP; the regular contact 
with his AFH adviser that has also been cited happened for good reasons (not limited 
to the SIPP and extending to other subjects including his ISA, his partners ISA and 
pension, and some relatively mundane matters); AFH has misrepresented some 
contacts that happened in order to support its defence of the complaint.
His complaint about the discretionary service extends to AFHs conflict of interests in 
its operation, to its unreasonable conduct of that conflict for its benefit and against his 
interest (in terms of favouring the selection, for his SIPP, of its relatively poorer 
performing in-house funds) and to the detrimental effect that had on the 
underperformance of his SIPPs investments.
His loss of confidence in AFH/the adviser began in 2019 and, until he considered the 
relationship broken by November 2020, he had expected the adviser to take action to 
restore his confidence, but that did not happen.
The investigator responded, he explained why his view remained unchanged and he referred 
the matter to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
The facts related to this issue do not appear to be in dispute. The relevant ongoing service 
for the SIPP was arranged in 2014 and was followed by an annual review in 2015, but it is 
true that no formal/face-to-face annual reviews happened between the parties thereafter. It is 
also true  as the investigator highlighted  that there is ample available evidence of ongoing 
contacts and correspondence between the parties over the years in which the service was 
conducted and up to its termination. 
I have reviewed this evidence. I am satisfied that it establishes, on balance, that Mr As AFH 
adviser  with whom he already had a longstanding and ongoing client-adviser relationship 
prior to both of them moving to AFH  was accessible to him (Mr A) on an ongoing basis, 
was called upon for advice and execution of instructions on an ongoing basis and provided 
such advice and execution on an ongoing basis throughout the service period. I note Mr As 
point about the variety of reasons behind the ongoing contacts and correspondence. 
Nevertheless, his SIPP featured amongst the different subject matters of the 
contacts/correspondence/discussion that led to advice and/or action by the adviser over the 
years, so the evidence retains relevance to his complaint. A reasonable conclusion to be drawn, on balance, from the overall contents of the contacts 
and correspondence between the parties is that the annual reviews that were missing after 
2015 do not appear to have resulted from AFHs intent or neglect. 
Instead, both sides appear to have taken a somewhat pragmatic approach based on the 
recognition that their ongoing engagements  and Mr As ongoing access to the adviser  
were sufficient to oversee and monitor the SIPP. The fact that AFHs 2017 offer of a formal 
review was declined by Mr A supports this finding. His response, which included I dont 
think a review would serve any great purpose, suggests that he considered a review 
unnecessary at the time and further suggests he was satisfied with the level of monitoring (in 
relation to the SIPP) already achieved between him and AFH at the time. He highlights that 
he mentioned, in the same response, that it would be nice to see the adviser again at some 
time, but I do not consider that this dilutes my finding or the fact that he declined offer. This 
did not ask for a review meeting, instead it was a pleasantry from him to the adviser that 
perhaps illustrated their longstanding relationship. 
I must also be mindful that the ongoing advisory service existed alongside a discretionarily 
managed SIPP portfolio. This meant the advisory element was somewhat limited, given that 
management of the portfolios investments was not subject to advice and was wholly subject 
to the managers discretion  the manager being an agent of AFH but also a separate entity. 
On balance, I consider that this adds to my finding above. In addition to the ongoing and 
reasonably active engagements between Mr A and the adviser over the years, the SIPP 
portfolio was also under active discretionary management, so I am not persuaded that the 
missing annual reviews after 2015 were consequential.
Mr A also refers to his suggestion of a meeting in January 2019. He did this in an email to 
the adviser in which he expressed dissatisfaction arising from the SIPP portfolios six-
monthly performance report, and after summarising his concerns he concluded the email 
with  I think it would be useful to know your thoughts, and I am happy to come to your 
office for this. He says no meeting with the adviser followed this, but there is evidence that 
further correspondence did follow. The adviser addressed the matter. He responded to      
Mr As concerns in writing and he liaised with, and shared feedback from, the portfolios 
manager within the same month. There is evidence that by the time the adviser sent him the 
next six-monthly report on 5 June 2019 Mr As concerns appear to have been allayed to an 
extent. In his reply, of the same date, he said the report was much better reading than the 
last one. Notably, the advisers email concluded with another review invitation, but Mr A did 
not undertake this invitation.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold issue 1.
Issue 2
The performance of investments in the markets is rarely guaranteed. I have not seen 
evidence of such a guarantee in Mr As case. The discretionary management of his SIPP 
portfolio was based on a mandate arranged and agreed at the outset. That mandate 
reflected his objectives  which were as I have stated above, and which included the capital 
preservation and growth required to sustain his financial security and income goals. It also 
reflected his risk rating of 3 out of 5 which, as set out in the 2014 recommendation report, 
matched the objectives. The mandate also linked this profile with an asset allocation 
approach for the portfolio based on 2% held in cash, 13% in bonds and absolute return 
securities, 11% in property (which appears to have included an AFH fund), 25% in direct and 
UK Equity, 19% in Global Equity and 30% in AFHs equity based Strategic Core Fund. There 
is also content within the management agreement that explains AFH could have conflicts of 
interests in parts of its operations but, despite that, it will uphold its obligation towards the 
clients best interests.With authority from and accountability to the mandate, the manager had full discretion to 
manage Mr As SIPP portfolio and it could do so without the obligation to liaise with him or to 
seek and obtain his approval for the steps it took. AFH did not conceal the possibility of 
conflicts of interests in its operations, and Mr A was made aware of this possibility in the 
service agreement. The fact that AFHs funds could or would form part of the portfolio was 
also not concealed, this was essentially set out in the 2014 recommendation report and was 
evident in the asset allocation information within it. 
The notion that this aspect served AFHs interests is not enough, in isolation, to conclude 
that it is responsible for a wrongdoing in its agents management of the portfolio. There was 
transparency in the matter, so that is not the issue. The issue is whether (or not) AFH is 
responsible for mismanagement of the portfolio by its agent in terms of a breach of the 
mandate and/or in terms of action and/or neglect that was against Mr As best interests. 
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that either has been established.
This service would not normally determine a matter of performance in isolation. Instead the 
issues I mentioned above are what should be determined in this case. Mr As complaint in 
November 2020 led with his dissatisfaction about performance. He said the portfolio had a 
performance rate of around 21% over the preceding five years and that he had learnt from 
other advisers and managers that the portfolio should have performed within the range of 
45% to 50% over that period. Performance alone is not a basis to find wrongdoing, so I 
make no findings in this respect. He followed this point with reference to the portfolios 
content being fundamentally changed in 2018, beyond the mandate and to the point of 
having almost 75% of AFHs funds within it. AFH has explained that most of the funds he 
perceived as AFH funds were actually third party funds with delegated authorities from 
AFH; that this was an arrangement which came to effect following changes to its regulatory 
permissions that made it possible; so they were not its own funds and it was not tied to 
them. Furthermore, it notes that the mandate allowed for no more than 75% equity contents 
and this was not breached.
Overall and on balance, key relevant facts are that the mandate did not prohibit the use of 
AFH funds (the opposite  inclusion of AFH funds  was the case) and that the mandate 
allowed for 75% equity contents; I am persuaded by AFHs evidence on the delegated 
authority arrangement for the funds it explained, but even if they were AFHs funds their 
selection, alone, did not amount to a wrongdoing; I have not seen evidence that the mandate 
limited the use of AFH funds; there is evidence that despite his concern in January 2019, by 
June 2019 Mr A was either pleased with or not so concerned about these funds, so they 
appear to have had periods of performance which served his interests; it is noteworthy that 
his argument, based on input from third party advisers and managers, was/is not about a 
failure of these funds but about them not performing better than they did (or as good as other 
funds); the argument does not negate the factual performance they achieved, in their own 
rights, and it does not automatically prove that the funds were not in his interests; and 
evidence does not show that the mandates 75% cap on the portfolios equity content was 
breached.
On the grounds addressed above, I do not uphold issue 2.
Issue 3
With due respect, enforceability of the NIC (and/or KFD) is not the pivotal consideration that 
Mr A appears to consider it to be. As the investigator said, the charge applied within the 
service but there is insufficient evidence that its specific existence, nature and amount was 
brought to Mr As attention. I agree, and for this reason I do not say or suggest that he was 
aware of the charge. However, the matter cannot reasonably conclude on that note. The charge was applicable in the circumstances where cash was being held. Even though there 
is insufficient evidence to say it was brought to Mr As notice in 2014 it remains necessary to 
consider whether (or not) his actions would have been different in 2020 if the NIC was 
brought to his attention at the time, and if that was done before he took the steps that gave 
rise to it. It is also settled that such notice was not given to him in 2020, hence the focus on 
what he would have done had notice been given.
Overall and on balance, I consider that notice of the NIC would not have made a difference 
to Mr As liquidation decision and instruction. If he had prior notice of the charge in 2020 his 
instruction would probably still have been given and executed, and the NIC would still have 
been applied. As such, I am not persuaded to uphold his claim for a refund.
The charge related to the management part of the service, but as stated above the portfolio 
management from AFHs agent and the ongoing advice from AFH were elements of the 
same ongoing service, so if the liquidation proceeded the only way to avoid application of the 
NIC was to terminate the service as a whole. The balance of evidence does not show that 
Mr A would have done this in March 2020 or that the circumstances at the time lent 
themselves to such an outcome. Even though the liquidation was something he considered 
(and instructed) against AFHs advice, there is enough evidence to show that he had no 
desire to terminate the relationship at the time and that he continued to rely on AFHs 
adviser being available to give him advice in the near and later future  especially given his 
declaration of an intent to re-enter the market later in the year and his need for advice in this 
respect. Some push-back from him in response to the NIC would have been possible, if not 
probable, given that he appears to have been previously unaware of it, but his decision to 
liquidate at the time appears to have been unyielding and the same can reasonably be said 
of his need for ongoing advice from AFH, so it is more likely (than not) that he would have 
proceeded with his instruction and undertaken the charge if he had to.
Issue 4
Like the investigator, I endorse AFHs settlement offer for the part of this issue related to the 
service charges applied after Mr As complaint (and reference to termination of the relevant 
service) on 18 November 2020. It has offered to refund Mr A the fees received for this period 
and I consider that such a refund is fair given that the service (and fees) should have 
stopped in response to Mr As communication at the time. On balance, I do not find grounds 
to award any further form of refund in this issue and I am not persuaded by Mr As argument 
that the liquidation in March 2020 should have prompted [earlier] termination of the service 
(and fee) at the time and/or advice in this respect.
My findings above, about the advisory and management elements of the service being linked 
and about Mr A continuing to need the former after the liquidation, apply here too. Also 
relevant to this issue is evidence that the liquidation was expressly a temporary measure, 
that the plan was, in due course, to reinvest the portfolio under the same ongoing 
arrangement and that, in the interim and despite the liquidation, Mr A continued to use the 
linked advisory service. Correspondence after the liquidation instruction of 17 March 2020 
illustrates this and includes the following  on 19 March the adviser gave him advice on 
withdrawing income in a more tax efficient way from April onwards; further income 
withdrawal related work was the subject of the advisers email (to Mr A) of 23 March; in June 
Mr A sought advice about a separate matter concerning usage of a capital amount he was 
about to receive, but his email also referred to the SIPP, to his plan to reinvest it later in the 
year and to his request for a chat with the adviser in this respect  there is also evidence of 
the adviser liaising with the portfolio manager in this month in the same regard; in October 
the portfolios performance was the subject of correspondence between both parties; and 
that was followed by Mr As complaint in November, and further correspondence about 
performance. There is also evidence of generic monthly investment reports sent by AFH to its clients (including Mr A) during this period, one of which appears to have prompted the 
enquiries Mr A made in June about using the capital amount he referred to.
Overall, I consider that the balance of available evidence does not depict a service that was 
redundant after the March liquidation. Instead it shows a continuing service by AFH, the 
advisory part of which Mr A actively continued to use (and benefit from) and the 
management part of which he expressly intended to resume later in the year when he 
planned to reinvest the portfolio. In this context, I disagree that the liquidation served as an 
obvious trigger to terminate the service and/or to recommend such termination.
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr As claim, in this issue, for a refund of fees 
beyond the refund offered by AFH.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr As complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman