DRN-2834784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Norwich & Peterborough 
Building Society (YBS), mis-sold them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies, in 
November 2005 and then in October 2006. Each policy was in both their names and in equal 
shares. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out each policy to be used alongside mortgage borrowing. The first 
policy covered Mr and Mrs B for accident sickness and unemployment and cost them 
£10.44 per month. On a successful claim, it would have paid out a monthly benefit of £180 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and Mrs B were off work through accident and 
sickness, or if one of them were to lose their job. 
Mr and Mrs B then took out a second policy in 2006 when they changed their mortgage. 
The second policy provided the same type of cover and cost £21.07 per month and would 
have paid out a monthly benefit of £363, again covering them for up to 12 months per 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs B say the policies werent properly explained to them and in any event they 
had no need for them. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with this view and asked that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they agreed to take out each policy during a meeting at a branch. 
YBS says it didnt make a recommendation about Mr and Mrs B taking out the policies. 
But it still needed to make sure that on each occasion that Mr and Mrs B were given 
enough information to so that they could make an informed choice about the policy 
being right for them. 
YBS hasnt been able to provide us with all the paperwork from the time. This is 
understandable given the time thats passed. But where the information is limited or 
incomplete, Ive made my decision, on balance what is most likely to have happened 
based on what we do know about the sales processes that were in place and taking into 
account what both Mr and Mrs B and YBS have told us.
YBS says that Mr and Mrs B would have signed a separate application for the PPI. It 
cant provide a copy of the actual document signed by Mr and Mrs B, but it has given us 
a sample copy of the form they would have completed. The form also gave Mr and Mrs 
B the opportunity to split the benefit of the PPI between them if they so wished. The 
benefit was split equally between Mr and Mrs B, which suggests that Mr and Mrs B 
would have given the level of cover some thought when they completed their 
application. When Mr and Mrs B increased their borrowing a year later the PPI was 
increased to match the new monthly payments, so they would have filled in a similar 
form. 
It follows that for both sales, I think YBS made Mr and Mrs B aware that PPI was 
optional. They decided to go ahead with taking it out and, for the second policy, chose 
to increase the amount of cover to reflect their further borrowing. 
From the information they have given us I think that both Mr and Mrs B were both eligible 
for the PPI and it doesnt look to me they would have disadvantaged by the conditions or 
limitations of the policy. Mrs B told us about a medical condition shed started 
experiencing in around 2004 for which she took over-the-counter medication to keep it 
controlled and which had only led to taking less than a week off work. On that basis, it 
seems unlikely that Mrs B would have needed to put in a claim for this condition. 
Mr B hasnt told us about any sick pay but says he was entitled to redundancy if he lost 
his job. Mrs B said she was entitled to around 6 months sick pay from her employer if 
she couldnt work through accident or sickness, as well as redundancy if she lost her 
job. But this policy would have paid out in addition to and for longer than Mrs Bs sick 
pay would have lasted - up to 12 months for accident and sickness. And given that 
Mr and Mrs B havent told us about having other financial resources to fall back on, I 
think the PPI cover could have been useful to them if one or both of them were to lose 
their job or couldnt work. The policy covered their monthly mortgage repayments and 
as their mortgage was secured over their property I think it offered valuable protection if 
things went wrong.
Also, Ive not seen anything to make me think that either of the two policies was unaffordable 
for Mr and Mrs B.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs B about each of the policies wasnt as 
clear as it could have been but for the same reasons as Ive explained above as to why I 
think each policy was suitable, I dont think clearer information would have changed 
Mr and Mrs Bs minds about buying these particular PPI policies.
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of anything YBS did wrong and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman