DRN-3395974
The complaint
Ms C (represented by her father, Mr E) complains that West Bay Insurance Plc cancelled her 
motor insurance policy unfairly and without due notice.
What happened
The policy started on 16 July 2021. West Bay asked for proof of Ms Cs no claims discount 
(NCD) so Mr E uploaded a motor proposal confirmation from her previous insurer showing 
that Ms C had five years NCD. An advisor told Mr E the proof hed provided should be 
acceptable - but that a different team would review it. When it was checked, West Bay found 
it unacceptable. The document didnt show the end date of the other insurance, so the NCD 
appeared still to be in use on another policy. 
West Bay emailed Mr E several times in July and August 2021 saying it was important he 
should check the online portal for a letter and follow the instructions in it. Mr E opened the 
emails, but West Bay says he told its advisors he didnt check the letters in the portal. The 
letters advised Ms C that her NCD proof wasnt acceptable, so she should contact West Bay 
 and that her policy may be cancelled. West Bay also sent Ms C a letter (by post) on 12 
August 2021 to say the policy was going to be cancelled on 21 August 2021. As there was 
no response, the policy was cancelled, and she was charged a £50 cancellation fee. 
Mr E didnt accept the reason for the cancellation, or the charge for it. He insisted that hed 
checked the portal and that there was nothing in it except the policy documents. He said he 
called West Bay to query the matter several times, but no-one returned his calls. He also 
said Ms C didnt receive the notice of cancellation through the post.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Cs complaint. She thought the reason for the policys 
cancellation and the cancellation charge were fair. She noted that Mr E only realised the 
policy had been cancelled when West Bay refunded the premium. She said when Mr E 
called West Bay to query it, he didnt say hed had problems with the portal. He said hed 
read the emails from West Bay but that he didnt access the portal to view the letters, as 
advised. As the investigator remained of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld,   
the complaint was passed to me for review.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the reason for the cancellation was fair. West Bay had advised Mr E in a call and later 
in writing that the proof of NCD couldnt be on an active policy. The document he provided 
wasnt a renewal invitation, but a motor proposal confirmation.  It appeared to show the 
policy with the other insurer would be in place until 2022. I can see why Mr E wouldnt have 
noted that fact  I dont think most consumers would have done. And I have no reason to 
doubt that the other insurer had told Mr E the document would be acceptable. But only West 
Bay could make that decision, as it was offering the new policy and needed valid NCD proof.
 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for West Bay to query the proof Mr E provided. As the 
matter wasnt resolved, I think it was also fair for it to cancel the policy and to charge a 
cancellation fee, in line with the policys terms and conditions. Its very unfortunate that Mr E 
and West Bay didnt discuss the issue, as I think it could have been sorted out fairly quickly. 
Mr E accepts that West Bay sent him several emails, all of which said it was important to 
access the online account and to follow the instructions set out in the letters on there. West 
Bay can also show that it sent a cancellation notice to Ms C by post. It cant be held at fault 
for her not having received it. Mr E thinks the emails should have set out what the problem 
was. I agree that it would have been a more direct way to communicate, but we cant instruct 
an insurer how to contact consumers. The portal appears to be the main way information is 
shared, so I think its likely that the emails are generic and are simply used as an efficient 
way of directing consumers to it, for various reasons.
Mr E told us he checked the portal as requested, and that as no letters were available to 
view, he called West Bay a few times to query it. But Mr E hasnt provided any evidence of 
these calls  or of chasing up a response to them. I think most consumers would have 
chased an insurer (probably by email) if they couldnt access documents, especially when 
the insurer had said it was  important to read them.  
West Bay says Mr E didnt tell it there was a problem with the portal until after the policy was 
cancelled. Id have expected Mr E to have called it early in August 2021, as soon as he 
became aware that he wasnt able to access the first letter. He cant show that he did. And 
theres no evidence of him chasing up that letter with an email  even after getting further 
requests to view online more letters that he says werent there. 
I think the available evidence points to Mr E not having accessed the portal. In a call 
recording on 19 September 2021 an advisor asked him whether hed gone onto the portal 
and read the letters. Mr E said he hadnt seen them. He didnt say he hadnt been able to 
see them, as they werent there. If hed looked for the letters without success, I think its 
inexplicable that he didnt refer to their absence in that call. So I think it was reasonable for 
West Bay to conclude from what he said that he hadnt looked at the portal.
The following day, Mr E spoke to one of West Bays managers. It doesnt have a recording of 
the call, but it provided the managers note of it, which was recorded on its system at the 
time. The note shows that Mr E told the manager hed read the emails from West Bay - but 
that he didnt look at the portal. He told the manager he thought the letters were junk mail. 
Recently, Mr E sent us screenshots of the portal showing that the letters West Bay says it 
issued (or a means to view them) arent there, although the policy documents remain in 
place. Mr E thinks that shows the letters were never there. But West Bay says letters arent 
available to view once a policy is cancelled. Mr E doesnt accept that, but he has no 
evidence to the contrary. 
Mr Es right to say that West Bay cant prove the letters were ever sent to the portal, but I 
think its far more likely than not that they were. I dont think it would have made any sense 
to refer him to non-existent letters. And it was in West Bays interests to have valid proof of 
Ms Cs NCD. It lost her custom to another insurer when the issue wasnt resolved. 
I appreciate that Ms C must have been very upset to find shed been driving uninsured after 
the cancellation. Fortunately, it seems her car wasnt involved in any incidents during the relevant period. Although I sympathise with her, I dont think Mr E on her behalf has been 
able to show that West Bay acted unreasonably, so I cant uphold her complaint.   
         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman