DRN-3899687
The complaint
Mr P complains that  Santander UK plc (Santander) didnt immediately reduce his monthly 
payments after he made a part settlement payment leading to additional interest being 
charged. And of delays in dealing with his complaint. He would like more compensation than 
Santander has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Santander has accepted it didnt action the part settlement of Mr Ps loan as soon as 
it should have. As compensation for this, and for its lack of contact throughout the 
complaint process it has offered £160 compensation. It has also refunded interest of  
£181.52.. Mr P isnt happy with the level of compensation, he feels he deserves 
more.
It seems to me that in making the interest rebate Santander has put Mr P back in the 
position he would have been in if the part settlement had been processed as it should 
have been.  This is what we aim to do when we uphold complaints. So, I think  
Santanders actions were appropriate in this respect.
In terms of the £160 Santander has offered for not actioning the partial settlement as 
soon as it should have and for the delay in dealing with Mr Ps complaint I think this is 
a reasonable figure. I dont doubt Mr P experienced some distress and 
inconvenience because of Santanders actions. But he hasnt given us any specific 
reasons that I feel would justify a higher level of compensation.  
Finally, I appreciate Mr P isnt happy about the overall level of interest charged on the 
loan. But he  has been correctly advised that, as this didnt form part of his original 
complaint to us, if he wishes to take this further he should raise this direct with 
Santander in the first instance.
My final decision is that Santander has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement Santander UK plc should, if it has not already done so,  pay Mr P 
£160 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman