DRN-1564385
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) didnt carry out adequate 
checks before lending to him and that the loans werent affordable.
What happened
This complaint is about the three loans Lending Stream provided to Mr L between April and 
July 2013. The loans are listed below.
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 18-Apr-13 outstanding £300
2 22-Jun-13 outstanding £275
3 01-Jul-13 outstanding £105
 
Mr L says that adequate affordability checks werent carried out before the loans were 
provided and that he had other short term loans outstanding at the time.
Lending Stream said it carried out adequate credit and affordability checks and the 
repayments were affordable for Mr L. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loans two and three.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. Mr L didnt as he was concerned he had 
paid more than was recognised in Lending Streams offer calculation.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the amount being borrowed had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. At the time of the loans the relevant 
guidance was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT). This set out the need to make a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able to the make the repayments 
without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Lending Stream has agreed to our adjudicators recommendation that loans two and three 
be upheld. Therefore I havent considered these loans any further.
In regard to loan one, I do not find it was unreasonable that this loan was provided. I say this 
because before the loan was granted information about Mr Ls income and expenses was 
gathered and a credit check carried out. I find these checks proportionate given the size of 
the loan repayments compared to Mr Ls income and that this was Mr Ls first loan with 
Lending Stream.
The checks showed that Mr L was working full time with a monthly income of £2,000 and 
expenses of £850, suggesting the loan was affordable. His credit check didnt raise any 
concerns. Given the information gathered at this stage I do not find that Lending Stream was 
wrong to provide this loan. 
Mr L was concerned that he had paid more than Lending Stream had noted in its offer 
calculation. Based on the information I have seen I have nothing to suggest the calculations 
made are incorrect. 
 
 
Putting things rightI am upholding this complaint in regard to loans two and three. Lending Stream has said that 
these loans have been transferred to a third party and that it wil buy back these loans. Once 
this has happened, it should, as it has agreed:
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on the upheld loans without an outstanding 
balance along with 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
 
remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr L having made 
overpayments then these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. If there is an outstanding balance, any refund can be offset 
against this. If there is still an outstanding balance, Lending Stream should work with 
Mr L to agree an affordable repayment plan;
 
remove any negative information about loans two and three from Mr Ls credit file 
once they have been repaid.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr L a certificate to show how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman