DRN-1497225
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 when she applied for a credit 
card on a postal application form.
What happened
In 2000, Mrs H applied for a credit card with TPF on a postal application form which had 
been sent to her old address. At the same time, she was sold a monthly premium PPI policy 
to protect her credit card repayments.
The cost of the PPI policy was 70p per £100 of the outstanding balance per month for 10% 
of the monthly repayment up to a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy also gave her life cover. 
Mrs H complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. Mrs H added several points. I have considered them all and so I will refer to the points 
which possibly could affect my decision and which I consider relevant:
She couldnt recall a postal PPI application;
The words in the small print we strongly recommend you take out this cover was 
advising her to buy the PPI, so she concludes it wasnt optional;
The print was very small;
She would get 12 months full sick pay, so she didnt need PPI;
Her circumstances were not fully assessed by TPF;
The costs and benefits were not clear;
The terms and conditions were not clear;
She does not recall receiving the PPI pack with the postal application;
She does not recall receiving the Welcome Pack sent after the PPI had been bought. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs H, 
so Ill explain why.
Mrs H specifically complained that TPF gave her the idea that the PPI had to be taken at the 
time she applied for the credit card. She felt it was a condition of the credit card terms to buy 
it because the small print on the form said we strongly recommend she took out the 
cover. So I then looked very carefully at the application form which Mrs H completed for the credit card and PPI. I appreciate Mrs Hs point that she felt the strong recommendation from 
TPF in the small print lead her to buy the PPI. But I can see the strong recommendation is 
followed by a tick box for the PPI. So although it was worded to be a strong 
recommendation, it seems it was open to Mrs H not to tick the box and so refuse the 
recommendation. On Mrs Hs form, shes ticked the box requesting PPI cover. And I can see 
that she diligently completed the rest of the form with her personal and financial details  and 
she didnt take up other offers on the form like Card Protection or an Additional Cardholder  
so I think she probably read the form very carefully while she was completing it. And  
although I know this will disappoint her - I think she wanted the PPI and chose to have it by 
ticking the box. 
TPF told us the sale was non-advised which is what I would expect for a postal application 
because its highly unlikely that a customer would have spoken to anyone who gave any 
advice during the sales process. For non-advised sales, TPF only had to give Mrs H 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make her own informed 
decision about buying PPI. This means Mrs H would have had to make her own assessment 
about whether the PPI was right for her because TPF didnt have to. So I looked at Mrs Hs 
financial circumstances to see if she would get any benefit from the PPI.
Mrs H told us she had savings and an income protection policy worth 12 months of her 
salary. She did not produce any evidence of her savings, so I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me to uphold the complaint on that point. Mrs H did produce copies of various 
insurance policies, but the income protection policy she produced was not in her name. So I 
dont think it would have reduced the likely benefit of the PPI. 
Mrs H told TPF she would get 6 months full pay followed by 6 months half pay if she was off 
sick from work. She told us she would get 12 months full pay and sent in evidence of this 
(which she said applied to her in 2000). However, the evidence I have seen from Mrs H 
seems to date from 2014 onwards and refers to 6 months full pay followed by 6 months half 
pay  not 12 months full pay. I think its more likely she would have received 6 months full 
pay followed by 6 months half pay. So I think the PPI could have lasted for longer than her 
employee benefits and so PPI would have been of value to her.
Mrs H said she could have relied on her husband to pay her credit card repayments. I 
appreciate Mrs Hs point but, because peoples circumstances change, there is no guarantee 
that she could rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I think the PPI 
was of value to her.
TPF says the postal application was sent to consumers with a postal pack containing key 
information about the PPI policy  although Mrs H doesnt remember receiving it. I think the 
application form couldve been clearer on the cost and benefits it offered her, although the 
postal pack likely contained more information. But as Ive already decided she chose to have 
PPI and that she probably had a need for it, I dont think any more detailed information about 
the cost and benefit would have put her off from buying it.
I also dont know exactly what the application form and any other documents said about the 
exclusions. But I dont think the main ones affected her, so I dont think she would have 
refused the PPI even if shed been given a full list of exclusions.
This means TPF doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But TPF will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: TPF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because TPF didnt tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, TPF has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said which I have explained above but her points 
dont change my decision.
what the business needs to do
If it has not already done so, TPF has to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. And if it has not already done so, TPF 
should also pay back to Mrs H any extra interest she paid because of that.
TPF should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs H the difference between 
what Mrs H owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. TPF should also pay Mrs H 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. 
But  unless it has already done so  Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back 
to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman