The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process an international transaction he wanted 
to make and blocked his account. Mr M says due to changes in the exchange rate hes out 
of pocket and wants Santander to pay him compensation.
What happened
On 24 July 2019, Mr M tried to send just over £20,000 to an account in Spain. Santander 
blocked the payment and asked Mr M to contact them so that it could verify the payment was 
genuine. Santander also blocked the account. 
Mr M contacted Santander on 1 August 2019. Santander explained to him that all its 
transactions are put through routine monitoring and security checks. And in order to protect 
its customers it actively reviews transaction amounts and frequencies and will, from time to 
time, put restrictions in place to safeguard its consumers. It told Mr M that its actions were in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of his account. The bank explained to Mr M that it 
was concerned he had been the victim of a scam or fraud regarding the payment he wanted 
to make. And hed suffer a financial loss. So, it blocked the payment.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response. He says Santander had no right to block the 
payment, its his money and hes never had any problems making similar payments in the 
past. Hes also said that due to changes in the exchange rate the payment would cost him 
more, so hes out of pocket. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint.  He said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong and had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions. Mr M disagreed. 
He says Santander shouldnt have blocked the payment. Hes also said the investigator 
reached a biased outcome and simply sided with the bank. As no agreement could be 
reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats 
hes said to us and to Santander. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms frustration, its important to point 
out that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what it should have 
done. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill deal with Mr Ms concern that the investigator has simply sided with the bank - with 
the implication being that Santander is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I 
do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
DRN-1883327parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. 
Also, because this service provides an informal dispute-resolution service (we were 
established as an informal alternative to the civil courts) it is for us to determine how we 
assess and determine complaints. If Mr M does not agree with our view, he does not have to 
accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue 
his complaint by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how 
to go about doing that.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain action in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts and ask for information about payments. Santander has said that Mr Ms access to 
his account was blocked to meet these requirements.
Mr M says he hasnt done anything wrong and he hasnt been the victim of a scam. That 
may well be the case. But a business such as Santander has to have in place security 
measures and procedures in order to try to prevent fraud and safeguard its customers 
accounts. And its not for this service to interfere with these processes. Thats a matter for 
Santander. But Ive considered whether the processes were applied correctly and in line with 
the terms and conditions.
Of course, there is a balance to be achieved between Santander assisting individuals who 
contact it to make payments and it providing protection from fraud. Having put a fraud 
detection system in place, when it flags up a transaction as potentially suspicious, its not 
unreasonable for Santander to act on that. And thats whats happened in this case.
Ive listened to the call Mr M had with Santander on 1 August 2019. And I know Mr M feels 
the information Santander asked him to provide about the payment was unreasonable. But 
as Ive already explained banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and 
regulations. And having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that the bank was within its 
rights to ask Mr M for more information about the payment if it felt it needed further 
clarification. And that it had to make certain checks to comply with its regulatory obligations. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account also permit Santander to take the action it did. 
Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with them. So, I cant 
say the bank treated Mr M unfairly when it asked him about the payment. 
Mr M has said hed made similar payments without any problems. But the fact that none of 
his previous transactions hadnt been picked up by Santanders security systems doesnt 
mean it was wrong to highlight the July payment. Its for Santander to decide what factors 
their system should look at when reviewing transactions. And I havent seen anything which 
suggests it was used unfairly or incorrectly here. So, I cant say Santander did anything 
wrong when it declined to process Mr Ms payment on 24 July 2019.
Mr M has compared Santanders approach to other businesses where instructions are 
followed immediately without further security checks being completed. That may well be 
Mr Ms expectation of Santander, but the bank is entitled to decide if it will operate like that. It 
follows that I dont agree Mr M was treated unfairly because Santander followed its own 
processes.
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr M when Santander blocked the 
payment. So, I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander 
acted inappropriately when it blocked Mr Ms payment and asked him for information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman