DRN-1925113
The complaint
Mr B has complained to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) about the way it has dealt with a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
In 2015 Mr B entered into an agreement with a company called My Planet Limited 
(MyPlanet) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The cost of the system 
was £7,995 and was paid for in part by way of a loan arranged with Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) to be repaid over a 10-year term.
Mr B says that the reason her purchased the solar panels was because he was told by 
MyPlanet that the financial benefits generated by the system would cover its cost  
effectively making it self-funding.  But the system has not performed as Mr B was expecting 
and says it was misrepresented to him.
  
Under s.75 a credit provider can be responsible for a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
to the same extent as the supplier.  MyPlanet is no longer trading and so Mr B made a claim 
to BPF.
Initially BPF upheld Mr Bs claim but calculated there had been no loss.
Unhappy with BPFs response, Mr Bs representative referred a complaint to this Service.  It 
made several points, but in summary said:
Mr B considered BPFs calculation overstated the performance of the system;
The credit agreement with BPF is invalid as it doesnt correctly record the total 
purchase price of the system (to reflect the deposit he paid to MyPlanet).
He had lost faith in the solar panels and doesnt consider them fit for purpose.
He would like the loan agreement to be unwound and the solar panels uninstalled.
One of our investigators started reviewing the complaint, but BPF recalculated the system 
benefits to Mr B and provided an updated offer of compensation.
It said the total cost of the system to Mr B including his deposit, the loan and interest would 
be £8,527.99 over 10 years.  It also calculated that the likely financial benefit the system 
would provide over the same period was £8,443.65, and so it made a total offer of 
compensation of £212.06 including £100 payment for trouble and upset.
The investigator reviewed BPFs calculation and said the offer was fair in the circumstances.  
The claims management company (CMC) representing Mr B rejected the offer and 
disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  It said the offer was not fair as the credit 
agreement for Mr Bs loan was not accurate and so is null and void.  It also stated that if Mr 
B stopped making loan payments, BPF would find it difficult to enforce the agreement by 
way of court order.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reviewed everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  
and Ill explain why.
It is not disputed between the parties that MyPlanet misrepresented the solar panel systems 
benefits to Mr B.  The offer of compensation BPF has made is in recognition of this fact.  So, 
its not necessary for me to consider whether there is a valid claim for misrepresentation 
under s.75, but the key issue is to decide whether the offer is a fair and reasonable way for 
things to be put right.
Inaccurate loan agreement
The system purchase price was £7,995 and that having paid a cash deposit, the amount of 
loan he took out was £4,000.  The credit agreement stated that the price of the goods was 
£4,000 and that there was an advance payment of £0.
  
Although the CMC says that the error on the credit agreement means that it is legally void 
and unenforceable, Im required to take account of the law, but decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Given that Mr B clearly knew the cost of the system, having agreed the order for £7,995 and 
paid a cash deposit.  Having signed the credit agreement for a loan amount of £4,000, Im 
satisfied Mr B knew the sums involved and its clear what his intentions were in paying for 
the solar panel system.  So, I dont feel it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
for me to ask BPF to unwind the agreement and remove the solar panels for that reason.
BPFs offer and benefit calculation
The cost of the system (including interest on the loan element of the payment) to Mr B is 
£8,527.99 over the 10-year term.  So, to calculate Mr Bs loss, its necessary for BPF to 
determine the financial benefit generated by the system using its actual historic performance 
and estimated future performance.  That methodology is in line with what our Service would 
usually recommend.
The financial benefits come from the energy generated by the system in the form of reduced 
energy bills and Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.  
The CMC representing Mr B has stated the calculation is based upon overstated 
performance of the system.  Ive considered this point and looked at whether the 
assumptions its made is reasonable.
  
BPFs calculation of the likely future benefits is based upon several assumptions.  This 
includes using data from the Energy Saving Trust to assume a self-consumption rate of 
37%.  The calculation also includes allowance for electricity price inflation, the degradation 
rate and an estimation of the retail price index. I think these are reasonable assumptions for 
it to have used.
I also note BPFs calculation is based upon the system having generated 3,545.97kwh in its 
first year.  Mr Bs FIT statements show that his panels generated 3,345.50kwh between 14 May 2015 and 25 April 2016.  Given that period is just under a year, Im satisfied this 
reasonably accounts for the slight difference and that the figure BPF has used is fair.
 
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration with the system and understand hed like to be refunded and 
have the solar panels removed.  But given that Im satisfied BPFs offer will put him in a 
position that the system will cover its cost (and be self-funding) over 10 years, I cant fairly 
ask BPF to unwind everything.  I also note that Mr B will continue to receive ongoing benefits 
after 10 years.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
but Im satisfied that the offer it has now made is a fair and reasonable way to put things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman