DRN-3387551
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided by Monzo Bank Ltd when he tried to reverse a 
payment.
 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr H contacted Monzo via its chat facility and asked it to reverse a payment 
of £235 hed made to a business (A). Mr H told Monzo he was struggling financially and 
mentally. Mr H said he needed the funds back to pay for food and that he was trying to find 
somewhere to live. 
Monzo said it could raise a dispute for Mr H but that he needed to complete a form to start 
the process. Mr H asked Monzo to proceed without completing the form and gave further 
details about his circumstances and financial difficulties. Monzo said it the process was quick 
and didnt agree to reverse the payment without completing the form. At the end of the day, 
after Mr H had given particularly difficult information, Monzos agent signed off by saying 
have a great day and using a smiley emoji. Mr H responded a minute later and asked to 
raise a complaint. 
Monzo issued a final response but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Monzo said it had a 
standard process to follow and that it had reasonably asked Mr H to complete a dispute 
form. An investigator at this service looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it in part. They 
thought Monzos request for a dispute form to be completed was fair. But the investigator 
thought Monzos agent had shown a lack of empathy and caused Mr H unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience due to the way he responded. The investigator asked Monzo to pay Mr H 
£100 but it didnt agree and asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Hs case has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H was going through a particularly difficult time when he asked Monzo to 
reverse the payment. And I can see how frustrating the issues raised have been for Mr H. 
But I have to be fair to both parties. And whilst I understand why Mr H wanted Monzo to 
reverse his payment, I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly by asking him to fill out a 
dispute form. Both Monzo and the investigator have set out the specific reasons why Monzo 
cant just refund payments, so I wont repeat them I detail here. But, in brief, Monzo says it 
needs to ensure a payment thats been reversed wont later be claimed by the merchant. 
I understand the situation was urgent for Mr H. But I think it was reasonable for Monzo to 
request a completed dispute form before it agreed to refund Mr Hs payment. I havent been 
persuaded that Monzo treated Mr H unfairly. 
That being said, I can see the way Mr Hs conversation with Monzo was handled did cause 
him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Monzos told us the use of emojis forms part 
of its tone. But Mr H had just given Monzos agent some very difficult information about his 
circumstances, living situation and financial difficulties. And the agent had refused to 
proceed in line with Mr Hs request to reverse the payment. Its clear Mr H was upset. I can 
see Mr H was upset by the lack of empathy Monzos agent showed. Being told to have a 
great day and sent an emoji isnt a positive or sympathetic tone in my view. And Im satisfied 
thats caused Mr H avoidable distress and inconvenienced. 
As a result of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H, Im going to uphold his 
complaint and direct Monzo to pay him £100. In my view, £100 reflects the impact of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay him £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman