DRN-4038947
The complaint
Mr G complains about the outcome of a chargeback claim he made to Capital One (Europe) 
plc, who Ill call Capital One.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
Capital One didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them 
to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Here, Capital One did submit a chargeback claim for the £1,260.25 Mr G paid in deposits 
when he secured a new car that he subsequently needed to return to the merchant 
(dealership).
The merchant defended part of that chargeback claim. They explained that they processed a 
refund of £525 to Mr G, so Capital One reduced the £1,260.25 by £525 and credited it to Mr 
Gs account. 
On balance, I dont think Capital One did anything wrong. The invoice for the car shows that 
there was a part exchange allowance of £2,200, and two deposits that totalled £1,260.25. 
Together, those costs equated to £3,460.25 and thats what the merchant has confirmed it 
repaid to Mr G.
Ive not been provided with any statements to demonstrate that wasnt the case and I can 
see our investigator asked for those in January of this year. I understand that Mr G disputes 
that calculation, but Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest its likely the calculation is 
wrong, and on that basis it seems Mr G has benefited from the chargeback debit hes 
received. I dont think it would be fair to suggest its left him out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman