DRN-3099390
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with his mortgage account and the 
service he received when he found out there was a credit balance.
What happened
Mr C has an interest only mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC. 
He receives a contribution towards his mortgage payments in the form of government 
support for mortgage (SMI) payments. And he pays the balance of the contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) himself.
Mr C agreed with Lloyds to defer his payments between March and September 2020 in line 
with guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) during the coronavirus 
pandemic. He contacted Lloyds in October 2020, after theyd let him know what his new 
monthly payment would be, to discuss deferring his payments further. He found out then 
there was a credit balance on his mortgage account.
Mr C was unhappy Lloyds hadnt told him about the credit balance before. And he 
complained about the service Lloyds provided when he asked them for an explanation. 
Lloyds agreed to refund the credit balance to Mr C less the payments hed deferred. And 
they apologised and paid him £450 to compensate him for the poor service. Lloyds paid     
Mr C an additional £100 when they refunded the credit balance twice in error and he had to 
make a repayment.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered how the credit on Mr Cs account had built up, why Mr C hadnt 
been aware of it before and whether Lloyds had put things right for Mr C in an appropriate 
way. He also thought about how Lloyds had treated Mr C bearing in mind Mr Cs disability 
and his concern Lloyds had breached the terms of the Equality Act 2010. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had responded fairly to Mr Cs complaint by refunding the 
credit balance and paying compensation. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint to this 
service. Since Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, his complaints been referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have provided detailed information which has helped me to understand their 
respective positions. I wont mention here everything theyve said. I dont intend to be 
discourteous and Id like to reassure the parties Ive taken everything into account when 
considering this complaint. I will focus here on what I consider to be the key issues in 
reaching my decision. Although Mr Cs raised some concerns about how Lloyds actions 
impact some of their customers more generally, I wont address those as my remit is to look 
at the individual circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
The credit balance
Mr C was concerned that although a credit balance had been accruing since around 2013, 
he hadnt been told about it despite his account being reviewed on two occasions, once by 
an independent third party. Mr C was unhappy with Lloyds explanation they werent under 
any obligation to tell him about the credit during general conversations about his account. 
And Lloyds acknowledged the annual statements they sent to Mr C didnt make clear there 
was a credit balance, even if they showed the capital balance of his mortgage was going 
down.
I understand Mr Cs frustration Lloyds didnt let him know about the credit. But for the 
reasons Ill explain, I dont think hes been disadvantaged as a result of not knowing about it 
sooner.
Lloyds have explained SMI payments are made by the Department of Work and Pensions 
(DWP) every four weeks while, in common with other lenders, their mortgages require their 
customers to make their contractual monthly mortgage payments (CMP) every calendar 
month. To ensure the CMP is paid, customers must pay the difference between the CMP 
and the SMI each month.
Lloyds say they mostly worked out Mr Cs contribution on the basis theyd receive 12 SMI 
payments a year. Since they received 13 payments, there was an overpayment each year 
which led to the credit on his account. Lloyds explain they work things out like this because 
of the uncertainties surrounding SMI payments. For example, its not certain SMI payments 
will be made for the full year or whether the customers application for SMI the following year 
will succeed. They argue, if all the payments are received, this gives their customers a 
buffer. 
Lloyds have explained an alternative method of working out a borrowers contribution, using 
the annual amount of SMI expected to be paid, was used for a period but was unpopular 
with their customers. It resulted in borrowers paying less than the amount needed to meet 
the CMP each month and arrears building up. Although the final SMI payment for the year 
might clear any arrears, that wasnt certain. The mortgage balance would also not reduce 
because there would be no credit to apply. So, interest was charged on a higher amount and 
meant higher contributions from borrowers each month.
Mr C thought hed been disadvantaged financially by paying more than he needed to each 
month towards his mortgage. He said he could have used the additional amount for heating 
and food, which hed gone without. Mr C felt he should be allowed to make the lower 
payments as a vulnerable customer and said he could come to a payment arrangement with 
Lloyds that would avoid any difficulties arising due to arrears.  
Im sorry to hear of Mr Cs difficulties. But, overall, I dont think hes been disadvantaged. 
The credit balance on Mr Cs mortgage has reduced the capital balance of his mortgage on 
which hes had to pay interest. So, hes benefited from making a lower contribution towards 
his CMP on a monthly basis over a long period of time. 
I think Lloyds have also resolved his complaint fairly. They reviewed his account. And they 
agreed to apply some of the credit balance towards payments he missed due to payment 
deferrals and transferred the net balance to Mr C. Mr C thinks Lloyds should have paid interest on the payment he received. Since Mr C has 
had the benefit of making lower monthly mortgage contributions, I think hed be benefiting 
twice if Lloyds paid him interest as well. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask them to do so.
Service issues
Mr C feels Lloyds discriminated against him when they were looking into his concerns. He 
thinks they failed to take his disability into account in line with the requirements of the 
Equality Act 2010. Mr C would need to take court action if he wished to pursue a claim under 
the Act. But Ive taken relevant legislation and guidelines into account when considering 
whether Lloyds treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. 
Lloyds acknowledged Mr C was given different information at different times about what his 
contribution to the CMP was. This was because theyd used the alternative method that Ive 
mentioned to work out his payments for a period. I dont think this impacted him significantly 
since he wasnt aware of the effect on his account at the time. But Lloyds took it into account 
when deciding on the level of compensation to offer him. And I acknowledge knowing about 
the credit balance more recently has caused Mr C frustration and distress.
Lloyds felt they hadnt given Mr C clear information about how they dealt with his request for 
payment deferrals in March and June. There was also a delay in refunding the overpayment. 
For these other issues of poor service and the time it took them to respond to his complaint, 
Lloyds offered Mr C additional compensation.
I acknowledge Mr C feels very strongly Lloyds havent been open and honest with him. Hes 
concerned about the way in which Lloyds communicated with him after his complaint had 
been formalised. And he feels Lloyds complaints process wasnt explained to him or as 
accessible to him as it is to other customers. 
Lloyds initially said Mr C couldnt have a refund of any overpayment made on his account as 
it would be too complex to work out what hed paid and what the DWP had paid to see what 
he might be entitled to. But Lloyds went on to look into his account broadly in line with the 
timescales they gave Mr C for doing so. 
I acknowledge Mr C felt some of the calls he got were inconvenient and Lloyds could have 
arranged those better. But overall, I think Lloyds kept Mr C updated with their investigations, 
escalated his concerns to more senior staff members appropriately and explained things to 
Mr C openly. 
Lloyds suggested Mr C make his complaint and his complaints been investigated and 
referred to this service in the appropriate way. I dont think being unable to access the 
complaints process on-line put Mr C at a material disadvantage in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Lloyds acknowledged where their service had fallen below expectations, including when they 
mistakenly sent Mr C the agreed credit balance twice which will have caused Mr C 
inconvenience in having to return it. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think the apology Lloyds made and the compensation of £550 
they paid is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr C for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered as a result of what happened in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have explained how Mr Cs mortgage payments will be calculated going forwards. 
And theyve said they will discuss with him each year any overpayment thats been made if 
he contacts them. I think thats reasonable.Whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr C, since I think Lloyds have done enough 
to put things right, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman