DRN-4112608
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the quality of a used car she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement (agreement) with Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB).
What happened
On 23 August 2022 Mrs W acquired a used car costing £11,804.00 under an agreement with 
STB. The agreement was brokered by a company that I will call C. The car was acquired 
with an odometer reading of 73,489.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mrs W undertook to make 
59 monthly payments of £274.36 followed by 1 monthly payment of £284.36 making a total 
repayable of £16,471.60 at an APR of 14.9%.
Shortly after taking delivery of the car Mrs W says she noticed the boot lid wouldnt lock and 
some damage to the paintwork.
The original supplying dealership agreed to inspect the car (and repair if necessary), but 
Mrs W wasnt prepared to return the car to it.
On 6 October 2022 Mrs W had the boot lid issue investigated and repaired by a garage at a 
cost of £78.00. The same garage also provided Mrs W with a repair estimate for other works 
totalling £1,236.65.
On 19 October 2022 Mrs W complained to STB.
On 21 October 2022 Mrs W returned the car to the supplying dealership saying she no 
longer wanted it. However, the supplying dealership said it was unable to identify any faults 
with the car or any repairs that were required. 
On 26 January 2023 the car was inspected at the supplying dealerships premises by an 
inspector appointed by STB with the odometer reading was 73,980. The report compiled 
following this inspection concluded the car was of satisfactory quality.
On 3 February 2023 STB issued Mrs W with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL STB said that given an independent inspector had found no faults with the car it 
wasnt upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the car had any faults and/or that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when first supplied. In other words, the investigator concluded 
that Mrs Ws compliant shouldnt be upheld.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. I would also add where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of its here Ive to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
As the agreement entered by Mrs W is a regulated one this service is able to consider 
complaints about it. STB are also the supplier of the goods under the type of agreement 
Mrs W entered into and is responsible for a complaint about the quality of the goods 
supplied.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mrs W entered into. 
The CRA implies a term into the agreement that the goods are of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable 
person would find acceptable, taking into account factors such as  amongst other things  
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Mrs Ws case the car was approximately 10 years old and had covered 
approximately 73,000 miles when she acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it 
compared to a brand-new car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price.
I accept that Mrs W believes the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to her 
and that she raised the boot lid issue, even if it wasnt with STB, within 30 days. I also note 
that within 6 weeks of taking possession of the car Mrs W had the car inspected by a garage 
and that garage carried out a repair to the boot lid and identified a number of other items 
requiring repair.
First I would like to address the issue with the boot lid. Now Im satisfied, based on what 
Mrs W has said and submitted, that there was possibly a fault with the boot lid. But Im not 
persuaded that this made the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied especially given 
how quickly Mrs W was able to get this issue fixed and for a price of only £78.00. And 
because of my view in this respect, and other relevant considerations which I dont list, nor 
do I need to list, in this decision it follows that Mrs W wasnt deprived of her short term right 
to reject the car, as provided for under the CRA.
I will now turn to the other faults the garage that repaired the boot lid said required repair at 
an estimated cost of over £1,000.
Now I can understand that receiving an estimate for repairs of over £1,000 would have 
caused Mrs W to question the quality of the car. But this estimate doesnt say that these 
faults were present, or developing, at the time of supply. Now given how quickly Mrs W raised her concerns about the cars quality with STB Im 
satisfied that it was STBs responsibility to provide evidence that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied to Mrs W by arranging, for example, an independent inspection of it.
Now I accept that Mrs W has reservations over the inspection STB arranged and the report 
produced following that inspection. But Im satisfied that this report can be relied upon and 
constitutes both plausible and persuasive evidence. And given that this report was unable to 
identify any faults with the car, including those Mrs W had specifically brought to STBs 
attention, and given the car passed an MOT test on 15 June 2022 (with a recorded milage of 
73,127) with no advisories I cant reasonably conclude that the car, when supplied to Mrs W, 
was of unsatisfactory quality.
For the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether it would be appropriate for me to 
direct STB to refund Mrs W the £78.00 she paid to have the boot lid fixed. But given that the 
dealership agreed to look at the car and undertake any necessary repairs (an option Mrs W 
didnt take up), I dont think it would be appropriate for me to do so.
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision. But taking everything into account 
Im satisfied that STB doesnt need to do anything more in respect of this compliant. 
However, I would remind it that if Mrs W is in financial difficulties that it treats her in line with 
its regulatory obligations.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman