DRN-3246048
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr D has a home insurance policy, underwritten by AXA, which covers buildings and 
contents  amongst other things  for a property he owns and rents out.
He made a claim in April 2021 after a ceiling collapsed in one of the rooms.
AXA declined the claim, telling Mr D there was no insured event which had caused the 
ceiling to collapse. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to AXA. And when they maintained that 
their decision to decline the claim was correct, Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AXA had done anything wrong.
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants AXA to settle 
the claim in full. Repairs, redecoration, replacement of some furniture, tenant costs and 
agency costs amounted to around £7,200 in total. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D bought his policy on-line. Theres no dispute that he received the terms and conditions 
and other policy documents at the time.
In the buildings section of the policy booklet, AXA say they will cover loss or damage caused 
by any one of a number of insured losses. 
This list of insured events isnt unusual for a home insurance policy. AXA say they will cover 
damage caused by fire, storm, flood or escape of water, for example. They also say theyll 
cover malicious damage.
Mr D also opted to take out a basic level of accidental damage cover. So, hes covered for 
accidental damage caused to certain parts of the building by the residents at the property 
and/or their guests.
AXAs claim notes say that when Mr D rang to report the damage and make his claim, he 
wasnt at first able to identify any specific cause for the collapse of the ceiling. When it was 
explained that AXA would be looking to see whether there was an insured event, Mr D 
recalled that there had been a party in the room above the collapsed ceiling on the night in 
question.
AXA say that the ceiling was made of lathe and plaster and was therefore going to collapse 
at some point simply through age and/or wear and tear. They told Mr D that lathe and plaster 
was no longer used in construction, for that reason. 
And they told him the damage wasnt covered because there was no apparent insured event 
which caused the collapse.
Mr D thinks the damage should be covered either as accidental damage or malicious 
damage. He maintains that the party-goers in the room above the ceiling were dancing 
and/or jumping around on the night in question and that caused the ceiling to collapse.
I know it will be disappointing for Mr D, but I dont agree with his view that the damage 
should be covered as either accidental or malicious damage. Ill explain why.
When he bought his policy, Mr D chose to opt for additional basic cover for accidental 
damage. That was presumably a conscious choice at the time. And Mr D paid higher 
premiums to get this additional cover. Its not unreasonable to assume he knew what he was 
paying for.
The policy is very clear that the basic accidental damage cover means the policyholder is 
covered for damage caused accidentally by the policyholder, residents at the address or 
their guests, to certain specified parts of the home. 
Those parts of the home are: windows, solar panels, bathroom fixtures (e.g. toilet, sink etc.), 
ceramic hobs, and underground service pipes or cables. Put simply, theres no accidental 
damage cover for ceilings. The collapse of Mr Ds ceiling is not covered by the accidental 
damage section of the policy.
Its not directly relevant, given that the collapsed ceiling isnt covered by the accidental 
damage section of the policy, but I should perhaps point out that even if it were, theres a 
clearly set out policy limit of £1,500 per claim. Mr D wants AXA to pay out around £7,200 in 
this case.
Malicious damage is an insured loss, as defined in the policy. However, even if we accept 
that it was the party upstairs that caused the ceiling to collapse, I think it would be stretching 
a point to suggest that anyone involved in that party had maliciously caused the damage.
By any normal understanding of the meaning of the word, in order for an act to be described 
as malicious, the perpetrator would have to be intending  intentionally  to cause harm or 
damage. I dont think Mr D is suggesting that the people attending the party jumped up and 
down on the floor of the flat above in order to intentionally bring about the collapse of the 
ceiling below.
Insurers are entitled to set out, in the policies they offer, what kinds of loss or damage 
theyre willing to cover - and for what price. 
Wed expect that the terms of any policy are made readily available to the potential 
customer. And that its clear whats covered and what isnt. Where any terms are unusual, 
uncommon or particularly onerous, wed expect the insurer to being those to the attention of 
the customer.
In this case, the policy documents were made available to Mr D. They are very clear about 
whats covered and what isnt. None of the terms are unusual or onerous  they are 
reasonably standard for this kind of cover.Taking all of that into account, I cant justifiably conclude that it was unreasonable or unfair 
for AXA to decline Mr Ds claim for the collapsed ceiling. Their decision was in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy given that theres no reason to believe, as things stand, 
that the collapse of the ceiling was caused by an insured event.
AXA also explained to Mr D that if he were able to produce any evidence or information to 
support the idea that the damage was caused by an insured event, theyd be wiling to look 
again at the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman