DRN-3161350
The complaint
Mr S complains that MS Amlin Insurance SE (Amlin) has unfairly declined a claim hes 
made on his marine insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary of 
what happened.
Mr S owned a small boat insured by a marine insurance policy underwritten by Amlin.
The boats outboard motor was stolen and, in the process, the boat was damaged 
and sank.
Mr S claimed on his policy for the outboard motor and some equipment that had 
been on the boat but Amlin declined the claim as it said one of the policy conditions 
hadnt been met.
The boat was damaged while on its normal mooring. But Amlin said the condition 
required the boat to be onshore or in a marina during the winter when the damage 
occurred.
Mr S complained to Amlin and when it maintained its position, he brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and said she didnt think Amlin had been 
sufficiently clear which of the conditions in the policy applied to Mr S at the time of 
the loss. She said Amlin should settle the claim and pay Mr S £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced.
Amlin asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While making this decision, Ive kept in mind an insurers duty to communicate 
information to its policyholders in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
There are two conditions detailed in Mr Ss policy relevant to this decision.
The first, which Amlin has relied on to decline the claim is:
 BO49 Vessel location
During the period 1st December to 31st March when not in use the vessel must 
be kept ashore or in a marina.
Because the loss happened during this stated period - on 28 March 2021 - Amlin 
says this condition applies. It says, as the boat wasnt in use at the time, it should 
have been ashore or in a marina. But it was in fact on a mud mooring near Mr Ss 
home. So it says Mr S didnt comply with this condition and it acted fairly when it 
declined the claim.
Mr S says his boat is a small vessel on a non-standard mud mooring and Ive not 
seen anything which shows Amlin disagrees with this. 
He says the following clause - relating specifically to small vessels such as his -
instead defines where the boat must be located:
BO56 Small vessel non-standard mooring
While in commission and afloat but not in use the vessel must be kept:
a. On the moorings stated in the Certificate of Insurance
Mr S says the boat was in commission and afloat and in regular use at the time the 
theft occurred. In addition, hes confirmed the boat was moored at the mooring stated 
on the certificate of insurance and Ive not seen anything which shows Amlin disputes 
this. 
Mr S points out the condition doesnt include any date restrictions or details of when it 
doesnt apply and another does. Overall, it seems to me hes complied with the 
requirements of this condition. 
Looking at this condition, I can reasonably understand why Mr S believes BO56 
applied to his boat particularly as theres no time periods detailed which explain when 
this condition doesnt apply and another does. I think it was reasonable he believed 
he was complying with its requirements.
Additionally, I understand why he believed BO49 didnt apply as his boat was in 
regular use even through the specified time period.
Overall, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied Amlin made 
it sufficiently clear why BO49, which isnt detailed as specifically relating to small 
vessels, applied rather than BO56, which does.
I dont think Amlins communication of its requirements was clear, fair and not 
misleading. And because of this, I think Amlin hasnt acted fairly in declining the 
claim.
When the claim was declined, Mr S believed hed have to sell the boat as he couldnt 
afford to replace the motor. Hes explained the use of the boat was one of the few 
pleasures he had so I can understand why the decline of the claim would have 
caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Amlin should now settle the costs incurred by Mr S upon 
production of an appropriate invoice or receipt, subject to the limits detailed in the policy. 
And pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MS Amlin Insurance SE to settle 
the costs incurred by Mr S in line with what Ive detailed above. Additionally, it should pay 
him £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
MS Amlin Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman