DRN-2889974
The complaint
Mr M complains as a director of B, a limited company, that Great Lakes Insurance SE failed 
to provide legal advice regarding a claim on Bs legal expenses insurance policy, its 
communications were too slow, were unclear and were prejudiced.
Where I refer to Great Lakes Insurance SE, this includes it agents and claims handlers 
acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
B owns a property which was let to tenants on a 12 month tenancy. One of the tenants 
moved out but arranged for another tenant to take their room and B entered into a new 
agreement with the second tenant for a six month period.
When the second tenant didnt pay the rent, B made a claim on the policy for cover to bring 
legal action against the first tenant. B said the first tenant was liable for some of the rent due.
Great Lakes accepted the claim and agreed to send a letter before action. But after receiving 
more information, it said the claim wasnt likely to be successful and it wouldnt provide any 
further cover. Mr M complained on behalf of B but Great Lakes wouldnt change its position.
Our investigator said B had suffered a loss that was covered by the policy. He asked Great 
Lakes to obtain legal advice on whether B had a valid claim and said if the advice confirmed 
there was a valid claim, Great Lakes should compensate B for its loss.
Great Lakes said it would be willing to obtain a legal opinion but didnt agree that B had 
suffered a loss and said even if it had, the policy would only have to cover the costs of 
pursuing the loss rather than paying that amount to B.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said:
The relevant industry guidance says an insurer should deal with a claim promptly and fairly; 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy includes cover for the legal costs of pursuing a claim for rent arrears. But the 
policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. I would expect an insurer to get legal 
advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable prospects. And the insurer is entitled 
to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong.
Great Lakes withdrew cover because it said there wasnt a reasonable chance of Bs claim 
against the tenant being successful, as B had entered into a contract with the second tenant 
which resolved the first tenant of any liability. B disagrees and says the first tenant is still 
liable for some of the rent, referring to correspondence from the tenants guarantor which 
admits this. I appreciate that B disagrees with Great Lakes on this. But this is a legal matter. 
Great Lakes is responsible for handling the insurance claim but not for assessing the legal 
dispute. Great Lakes should have obtained advice from a lawyer on this. I dont think it was 
for Great Lakes to determine the legal issues. So I agree that it should now obtain legal 
advice on the chances of Bs claim against the tenant being successful.
I dont think its for me to say whether B has suffered a loss. If the advice is that the claim 
does have reasonable prospects, that means B is entitled to cover under the policy of the 
legal costs of pursuing the claim. I dont think Great Lakes should have to pay the value of 
that claim; it should simply provide the cover B is entitled to under the policy. If the legal 
advice is that the claim isnt likely to succeed then theres no loss.
Mr M also complains that Great Lakes handling of Bs claim was slow, its communication 
was unclear and the way it handled things demonstrated racial prejudice. He hasnt pointed 
to any specific examples of prejudice and I havent seen anything to support this. There was 
an initial period of around two months where Great Lakes was gathering information, 
assessing the claim, corresponding with Mr M and preparing the letter before action. I dont 
think there was any unreasonable delay during that period, or that its communications were 
unclear. After sending the letter, Great Lakes received a reply from the tenants guarantor 
explaining what had happened with the second tenant. Great Lakes needed to consider this 
new information and again, I dont think it delayed unreasonably here. And if Mr M had 
provided more information about this at the outset, it would have known about this earlier.
Great Lakes should not have rejected the claim without having obtained legal advice. So I 
intend to uphold that aspect of the complaint, but not the other points raised by B; it handled 
the claim promptly and was in regular contact about the claim.
On this basis, I said I intended to direct Great Lakes to obtain legal advice on Bs claim 
against the tenant and - if the advice is favourable - provide cover for the claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms.
Replies to the provisional decision
Great Lakes has accepted the provisional decision and said it will arrange for the claim to be 
assessed in line with my proposed direction.
Mr M replied on behalf of B saying he would like to add that if legal action is no longer 
possible due to the delay that has arisen, he would like to claim compensation for loss of 
claim.
In response to Mr Ms comments about the loss of claim, we explained to him that even 
where a business makes a mistake, that doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder can 
simply do nothing and allow the loss or harm to continue, if that could be avoided; its 
reasonable to expect them to take steps to minimise the harm. So we asked him whether he 
had taken any steps to protect Bs position.
Mr M replied to say he has been sending reminders for payment and also sent a pre-action 
letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr M and Great Lakes have accepted the provisional decision and so theres no reason 
to change my conclusion that Great Lakes should obtain legal advice on whether the claim 
has reasonable prospects of success. It also remains my view that if the advice confirms there are reasonable prospects of success, Great Lakes should cover the claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms.
However, Mr M has also said that if its no longer possible to pursue the claim as a result of 
the delay, then B should be compensated for the loss of the claim. Ive considered this point 
carefully and, as set out above, asked for more information from Mr M about what steps he 
has taken in regard to this. Having considered his comments they dont lead me to change 
my provisional decision. 
As weve explained to Mr M, even if Great Lakes makes a mistake, that doesnt mean he can 
simply do nothing and allow the loss or harm to continue, if that could be avoided. 
In this case, if Mr M was worried that delays might prevent B from pursuing the claim against 
the tenant, he could have taken action to protect Bs position  for example by issuing legal 
proceedings. Mr M says he has sent reminders and a pre-action letter. He hasnt however, 
followed that up with further action or explained why it wasnt possible for him to do that. Im 
not aware of any reason why B couldnt take legal action. 
If B had taken steps to start legal action against the tenant, it would still have been possible 
to bring this complaint, and if the outcome was that the claim should have been covered, 
then any expenses B had incurred which neednt have been occurred (had the claim been 
covered when it should have been) could have been reimbursed. In my view it wouldnt be 
reasonable for B to not protect its position and expect Great Lakes to cover any losses that 
arise as a result. 
If the legal advice is that the case doesnt have reasonable prospects of success, then the 
claim wouldnt have been covered. So any loss of the claim would not be down to Great 
Lakes actions in any event.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to:  
obtain legal advice on Bs claim against the tenant; and (if the advice is favourable) 
provide cover for the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman