DRN-2924073
The complaint
Mr H complains Soteria Insurance Limited, trading as Co-Op Insurance, havent dealt with 
him fairly following a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr H was unfortunately involved in an accident in his car. He said it was 
identified there were problems with the suspension and bodywork, and his car was taken to 
Soterias approved repairer. Ill call this company A.
Mr Hs car was then returned to him, with the repairs apparently having been carried out. But 
Mr H says the suspension wasnt fixed like theyd told him it would be  so his car was 
looked at again, but still Soteria didnt repair the suspension. He said its not clear why A 
didnt fix the suspension as theyd told him they would. Later on, Mr H says Soteria refused 
to return his car and cancelled his insurance. He said Soteria threatened him to return the 
courtesy car he was given  but he doesnt know where his car is and said its been stolen. 
Mr H has also complained hes lost out financially because of whats happened. So, he 
wants Soteria to pay for his taxi costs for the period hes been without a car, and he doesnt 
agree its fair hed be expected to pay storage fees for the time the cars been in the garage 
as thats not his fault. He also said as part of this complaint hed been discriminated against 
as a result of the cancellation of the policy. And he was unhappy Soteria had registered a 
complaint for him, when he said hed not raised one  as well as saying his data was 
breached.
Soteria replied to Mr H explaining hed raised an expression of dissatisfaction, so they were 
required to treat what hed said as a complaint  and then in their response to his complaint 
they said:
The suspension damage was a pre-existing fault on his car  so they wouldnt fix it 
under the terms of the policy
Cancelling his insurance means hes no longer insured to drive the courtesy car
For the taxi costs, Soteria said theyd not cover these as Mr Hs car was repaired as 
far as the policy terms allow, and his car should have been returned to him already
As for the storage costs Soteria said Mr Hs car has been left at the garage well 
beyond the time it should have been, and a reasonable number of attempts had been 
made to return his car to him
They were satisfied theyd not breached his data
They also noted Mr H had concerns about the independence of the engineers Soteria had 
originally instructed  so they arranged for an independent inspection by another company. 
The outcome of this review was the same  and Soteria said their engineers are satisfied 
with all the information provided so they wont be paying to fix the suspension.
Soteria said theyd told Mr H on several occasions that the repair isnt going to be completed 
so Mr H needs to accept his car back. They added if Mr H still disagrees with their decision 
then theyre happy for him to get an independent report which theyd consider.
Soteria said they couldnt see Mr H had ever been told by them or A, the suspension would 
be repaired. While Mr H is refusing to return the courtesy car to the garage until all the 
repairs he says are necessary are completed  Soteria have said all the repairs they accept 
have been done. So, at the point of their letter on 10 March 2021 the courtesy car should 
have been returned. Soteria said even though Mr H has concerns, its not appropriate for 
him to refuse to return the courtesy car.
Soteria said they appreciated Mr H was willing to talk to their claims department, but that he 
also had to talk to A as one of their suppliers  and by refusing to do so they felt hed 
behaved in an inappropriate manner with them. So, they didnt think it was unreasonable for 
them to cancel the policy  and they take all allegations of discrimination seriously but didnt 
uphold this element of Mr Hs complaint.
They noted Mr H was also unhappy that his policy was cancelled with no warning, and that a 
fee was charged. Soteria explained this was done by a different company so suggested 
Mr H get in touch with them to raise his concerns  so I wont be considering those points in 
this decision. 
After Soteria issued their response, Mr H said he felt theyd stolen his car because theyd not 
returned it and hadnt told him where it was. Soteria said his car had been taken to As 
premises, which he knew about. And theyll exchange cars, but Mr H has to swap the 
courtesy car for his own as no further repairs will be done. Mr H said he was going to report 
the matter to the police but would voluntarily withdraw any criminal claim once his car has 
been fully repaired (Mr H meant the suspension)  and at that point hed swap over the 
courtesy car with his own and return the keys. Soteria replied and said they couldnt stop 
Mr H reporting the matter to the police and that was his choice  but theyd explained what 
had happened so wouldnt be entering into any further communication with him unless it 
related to new issues. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H asked us to look into things. He explained on 
25 March 2021 A had spoken to the police and retrieved the courtesy car from his property. 
He spoke to Soteria, and they confirmed this. Mr H said he still had a spare key for the 
courtesy car. Mr H said hed return the spare key when A confirm they did take the car back 
without his knowledge, the car is in good condition  and a brand new car is provided to him. 
Mr H had also declared his car Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN) because he said his 
car was undriveable now.
One of our investigators considered everything, and overall didnt think Soteria had acted 
unfairly in saying they wouldnt pay for the suspension to be fixed, or in cancelling the policy. 
She said she couldnt see Mr Hs car had been stolen as itd been taken by the garage and 
he signed for this at the time. She also found no evidence Mr H had been discriminated 
against. She said Mr H could take any concerns about Soteria registering a complaint to the 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  as they set the rules around complaint 
handling. And any concerns about data breaches to the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). So, overall, she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
In response Mr H repeated a number of his concerns already detailed in this decision. But he 
did also say Soteria had refunded him a proportion of his premium, whereas our investigator 
had said they werent required to do that. And he said his car wasnt safe to drive  but 
couldnt get a new independent report now to confirm that. He also said the independent 
garages address didnt exist so they couldnt have done a check. Because he didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
I can see Mr H said hed not been given a copy of the report from A. I understand from 
Soteria they sent the report to him on 25 June 2021 and have seen evidence of this  so 
overall Im satisfied Mr H has had time to raise any further issues hed like to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a substantial amount of information to our service, both before and after 
our investigator issued their outcome. I wont be addressing or commenting on everything 
mentioned and thats part of my informal role in settling disputes  but I have considered 
everything provided carefully. Instead my key focus is looking at whether Soteria have acted 
fairly in the way theyve handled Mr Hs claim. To do that, Ill address his complaint in two 
sections  not repairing the suspension and cancelling the policy.
I wont be considering any of Mr Hs concerns about how Soteria handled his contact with 
them  as he said hed not complained. If he wanted to raise those concerns he can speak 
to the FCA. And I wont be considering whether Soteria have breached his data  he can 
speak to the ICO regarding that. 
Have Soteria acted fairly in saying they wont repair the suspension on Mr Hs car
Mr H says he was told his suspension would be repaired, and Soteria have said theres no 
evidence of that  and its excluded under the policy terms because theyve determined the 
damage was pre-existing. Mr H has added that by not repairing the suspension when they 
should have, his car is a write off.
The starting point for any insurance claim is generally considering what the policy terms 
cover. Under whats not covered. Mr Hs policy terms say the following:
We will not pay for any losses that are not directly associated with the incident that caused 
you to claim, unless expressly stated in this policy
Ive not seen anything to suggest in the rest of the policy Mr Hs situation would mean his 
claim for his suspension would be covered. So, the question then is whether the suspension 
damage is as a result of the accident or not. If its not, then I cant fairly require Soteria to 
pay for the costs of repairing it.
An initial report was done by A who are one of Soterias approved repairers  meaning 
Soteria have them on the list of garages theyd contact to get repairs done. A said the car 
had around 100,000 miles on the clock, and due to the location of the issue it was more 
likely wear and tear. The damaged suspension is on the left-hand side of the car, and the 
damage from the incident was done to the right-hand side of the car. 
I think Soteria acted fairly at this point in relying on the report produced for them by their 
garage  and this is usually what Id expect. Soteria will have expected A to have carried out 
a thorough inspection of the issues Mr H has pointed to. 
But, given Mr H raised a dispute I think Soteria again acted fairly by paying for a second 
assessment from another independent garage. This garage concluded the same  that the 
suspension wasnt as a result of the accident.Ive not seen any reason to doubt the two different garages who have ended up both saying 
the damage was due to wear and tear, rather than the accident itself. And our general 
approach, because were not mechanics, is to rely on the expert reports that have been 
provided unless theres a reason to doubt them. In Mr Hs case, although I can see hes said 
the independent garage who did the second inspection dont exist, Im satisfied they do as 
Ive seen the reports provided.
Soteria went a step further, and said theyd consider a report if Mr H arranged one. Ive 
noted his comments he cant do this now, but he was told in a timely manner this was an 
option for him and Ive seen no evidence he chose to. 
Mr H has also said he was told A would repair the suspension  but Ive seen no evidence of 
that in any of the extensive submissions that have been provided. So, given the two garage 
reports say Soteria arent responsible for the damage, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint 
for this reason. 
Both garages also reported that the car was safe to drive  despite Mr Hs comments that it 
wasnt. So, for the same reasons as Ive said above, I think its fair to rely on those.
 
Ive noted Mr H also has concerns about whats happened to the car since he raised his 
complaint. I can see hes seemingly chosen to declare it SORN because he thinks the car 
wasnt worth anything anymore and it was a write-off. But, again, both garage reports show 
the market value of the car was sufficiently more than the repairs to not declare it a write-off. 
So, I cant hold Soteria responsible for any actions Mr H has seemingly chosen to take off 
his own back regarding his car after hed been given the correct information by Soteria.
Overall then, Im satisfied theres enough evidence to say Soteria arent required to repair 
Mr Hs suspension, the car was safe to drive, and Soteria arent responsible for Mr Hs 
actions in declaring it SORN. 
Cancellation
The relevant terms that apply to Mr Hs policy say:
We may cancel your policy if there are serious grounds to do so such asyou behave in a 
threatening, abusive, or inappropriate manner
The terms do go on to say Soteria will refund a proportion of the premium provided no claims 
have been made. So, I can see why our investigator didnt think Soteria would be refunding 
any premiums.
But, in relation to the cancellation, I think Soteria have acted fairly. Mr H has refused to 
engage with A and return the courtesy car unless Soteria repair his car  which theyd told 
him on many occasions they werent going to do. Ive found they treated him fairly during this 
process  so I can only conclude Mr H has effectively held the courtesy car to ransom in 
order to get his way. That isnt appropriate, so I find Soteria have acted fairly in cancelling 
his policy.
Ive also noted Mr H said hed been discriminated against when the policy was cancelled. 
Specifically, because there were no reasons or warning before his policy was cancelled, hes 
being charged a fee for cancellation when he didnt ask for that to happen and the location of 
his car wasnt provided.Ive said above Im not addressing the first two points  as theyve been done by a different 
company. And, in relation to where Mr Hs car is, Ive found he agreed for it to be taken to 
As premises  where hed picked his car up from previously. This is supported by a signed 
order confirming A would take his car, and theyd left him the courtesy car. This was the 
same garage where Mr H had previously had his car looked at within the last few weeks.
It really cant be a pleasant feeling to feel like youve been discriminated against. But for the 
reasons Ive explained about the issues I can look into, I cant agree with Mr Hs reasons for 
saying hes been discriminated against. Ive thought about Soterias communications with 
him regarding the claim, giving him options and explaining if he still disagreed then he could 
get another report which theyd consider. In addition, Ive thought about what happened 
regarding the courtesy car  and again how they explained their processes in terms of 
whats expected to happen once theyve made their decision on any repairs. So, Im satisfied 
theyve followed a reasonable process, made him aware of the options Id expect, and 
overall have treated him fairly. And more generally for Soteria cancelling the policy Ive 
already found theyve acted fairly, and I think its very likely theyd treat other customers in 
the same way if theyd acted as Mr H has.
Other issues
Mr H has also raised a wide number of other issues  including about what happened 
afterwards with the car. I want Mr H and Soteria to know Ive read everything thats been 
sent to our service. But, without meaning to be discourteous, Ive not commented on all 
points. Thats because for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied Soteria have acted 
fairly in not repairing Mr Hs suspension and cancelling his policy  so anything that 
happened after seems to have been Mr Hs choice, rather than anything Soteria did wrong. 
And as I dont think Soteria have done anything wrong, I wont be requiring them to pay for 
the taxi costs Mr H has claimed for, and dont think hes been treated unfairly regarding the 
storage fees either.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman