DRN-3632962
The complaint
Miss P complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled her claim on her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Following a road traffic accident, Miss P claimed on her car insurance policy with esure. 
Miss P is unhappy esure accepted liability for the claim, didnt give her a hire car, sold her 
car without her consent and didnt return some of her personal belongings. Shes also 
unhappy with the service she got from esure throughout the claim process.
When Miss P complained about these things, esure said it:
Didnt accept liability for the claim. 
Did accept it hadnt offered Miss P a hire car as it shouldve under Miss Ps policy 
terms and conditions. Initially esure paid Miss P £200 in compensation for this 
mistake, which it later increased to £300. 
Did accept its agents had sold Miss Ps car (even though shed said she might want 
to buy it back) and the service it gave Miss P wasnt of the standard it expected. For 
these mistakes, esure paid Miss P £400 in compensation. 
Couldnt return all of Miss Ps personal belongings from her car because some of 
them were liquid items. But esure said it had paid Miss P the policy limit for personal 
belongings of £150, as well as posting one item back to her.
Unhappy with this outcome, Miss P brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it didnt uphold it. He thought esure had acted fairly in establishing liability and said the 
overall compensation esure had paid of £850 adequately recognised the impact of esures 
mistakes on Miss P. 
Miss P disagrees. In particular, she doesnt think the compensation esure has paid her for 
selling her car without her consent is adequate. So Miss Ps complaint has come to me to 
decide.
I should mention Miss P brought a separate complaint to us about esures valuation of her 
car. Miss P has had an answer from our investigator on this complaint and has, I believe, 
accepted it. But for the avoidance of doubt, my decision here is only about the separate 
issues Ive outlined above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Turning first to the issue of liability, my role isnt to decide who was at fault for Miss Ps 
accident (thats something thats best decided by the courts). Also, Miss Ps policy has a 
term in it saying esure has full discretion and can take over, defend or settle her claim in its 
name as it sees fit. But esure must act fairly and reasonably in reaching its settlement 
decision. 
So thats what Ive looked at here. It seems esure was initially looking at a 50:50 split liability. 
It only accepted full liability when it got a statement from an independent witness saying     
Miss P was at fault. I think esure acted in line with Miss Ps policy terms and conditions and 
took into account the available evidence when it made its decision to accept liability. That 
means I think esure acted fairly and reasonably here.
Turning to the second issue, which is esures sale of Miss Ps car against her wishes. Where 
a consumer wishes to keep the salvage in a car, we expect an insurer to allow this. esure 
made a mistake in selling Miss Ps car when shed said she might want to by it back, which 
esure accepts. This was clearly upsetting and inconvenient for Miss P. But esure has 
already paid Miss P her cars market value, so I dont think shes lost out financially because 
of what esure did. I know Miss P thinks if shed been able to get the car repaired, it wouldve 
been worth more than the market value. But, of course, she can have no evidence to support 
this. Miss P also says the car had sentimental value. Even so, I think the £400 in 
compensation esure has paid Miss P for its overall poor handling of her claim, including 
selling her car without her consent, is fair and reasonable and in line with what Id expect.
Turning to the third issue of the car hire, again esure accepted it made a mistake in not 
offering Miss P this service. Miss Ps policy entitles her to £200 in compensation if a hire car 
isnt made available. esure has paid Miss P £300 in compensation  which takes into 
account some additional expenses she had. I think esure has acted fairly and reasonably in 
doing so.
On the final issue of personal belongings, I understand why esure was unable to return 
certain liquid items to Miss P by post. I also think esure acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances by paying Miss P the policy limit of £150 for personal belongings.
Ive looked at all of Miss Ps comments on this complaint but they dont change my 
conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman