DRN-2962807
The complaint
Ms C has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Cs complaint in part. Mr Lender did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Ms Cs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms C took three loans from Mr Lender between December 2017 and April 2019. A summary
of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mr Lender can be found
below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
dateactual 
repayment 
datenumber of 
repaymentslargest 
repaymentdeferrals
1 £300.00 11/12/2017 30/04/2018 4 £134.40 2
2 £750.00 30/04/2018 12/07/2018 6 £311.00 0
3 £310.00 15/04/2019 29/11/2019 6 £115.20 2
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Cs complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint about
loans 1 and 3. But, when Ms C applied for loan 2, our adjudicator thought that Mr Lender
ought to have been verifying the information Ms C provided it. This is because Ms C had
shown that she had problems repaying loan 1.
The adjudicator reviewed Ms Cs bank statements and he said the loan shouldnt have been
granted because there were signs of financial difficulties. So, he upheld Ms Cs complaint
about loan 2.
It appears that Ms C agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr Lender disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
The industry regulator allows up to two deferrals and the cost of repaying loan 1
didnt exceed the price cap.
Loan 2 looked affordable based on what Ms C declared about her income and
expenditure.
It wasnt proportionate to have asked for bank statements before approving loan 2.
Loan 2 was repaid early and so she saved money on interest.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Ms C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
Loans 1 and 3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have provided Ms Cs first or third
loan. Both Mr Lender and Ms C appear to have accepted our adjudicators findings about
these loans.
So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the level of individual checks Mr Lendercompleted before approving these loans, as I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement
about them.
Loan 2
The dispute in this case is whether Mr Lender ought to have done further checks before
approving loan 2. The adjudicator said it was right to do so given what it knew. But Mr
Lender, made a number of points (listed in the what happened part of this decision ) as to
why it was reasonable to lend.
When this loan was approved, Mr Lender asked Ms C about her income and she declared
she had an income of £2,300 per month. With outgoings of £1,625 meaning that Ms C had
disposable income each month of around £675 which was more than enough to cover the
largest repayment of £311.
In addition to this Mr Lender carried out a credit check, and this didnt show any defaults or
insolvency. It also seems that Mr Lender was aware at the time this loan was approved that
Ms C had one outstanding short-term loan but this didnt appear to have impacted Ms Cs
affordability.
Based solely on the checks Mr Lender carried out it wouldve believed Ms S could afford the
repayments she was committed to making.
But, Ms C applied for her second loan on the same date she repaid loan 1 and loan 2 was
for more than twice the amount to be repaid over a longer period of time (6 months
compared to 4 months for loan 1).
Ms C also deferred her repayments for loan 1 on two occasions (when payment 2 and 3 was
due), and she ended up repaying the loan 1 one month later than planned. And as Mr
Lender said, she wasnt charged any late fees for doing so. Mr Lender is also correct in
saying that the industry regulator allows a consumer, if they wish to defer a loan repayment
up to two times, but Ms C was required to pay the interest due in that month in order to
defer.
The adjudicator who initially investigated Ms Cs complaint thought that Mr Lenders checks
should have gone further for loan 2. Given the problems she had repaying loan 1 and
because she returned quickly for a new, larger loan. But I dont agree.
Ms C did defer the capital part of the repayments on the first loan, but she made all the
repayments she was expected to make on time. I do accept that returning for a new loan on
the same day as a previous one is repaid (and for a larger amount) couldve been a sign that
Ms C was having financial difficulties. But there werent any other signs, for example the
credit check didnt indicate that there were lots of outstanding STL or any form of insolvency.
Equally, this was Ms Cs second loan, so I dont think, at this point, any pattern could be
taken from what happened. Indeed, Ms C managed to repay loan two earlier than planned.
I dont think based on what Mr Lender knew at time that it needed to go as far as reviewing
Ms Cs bank statement and the information it had didnt suggest that Ms C was having
financial difficulties.
For Ms Cs loan 2 I think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks which showed Ms C
was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. And at this
early stage of the lending relationship, I dont think Mr Lenders checks needed to go further
than it did such as review of Ms Cs bank statements.So, Im intending to not uphold Ms Cs complaint. I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed by
the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why
Ive reached the outcome that I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender let us know that it received the provisional decision and it didnt have anything 
further to add. Ms C hasnt provided any new evidence or information for me to consider. 
No new information has been provided, so I see no reason to depart from the findings that I 
reached in the provisional decision. I still think that Mr Lender carried out proportionate 
checks before it granted Ms C her loans, and the checks showed that Ms C was likely to be 
able to afford them. So, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint. 
I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my 
explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman