DRN-2313898
The complaint
Mrs B brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr B. She says Legal 
and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has unreasonably refused her claim for 
death benefit under Mr Bs two life assurance policies. Instead, it has voided the policies on 
the grounds of misrepresentation. 
Mrs B believes L&G would have insured Mr B and it should pay claims to her now.  
What happened
Mr B applied for two policies with L&G on 29 August 2012. The first was level life cover of 
£69,300. The second was also level life cover, but with additional critical illness benefit. This 
had a lower sum assured of £17,325. Each policy had a 35-year term.    
When Mr B was sent a copy of his policy applications to check in September 2012, he 
noticed that the information was not accurate. He therefore added further information to the 
Checking Your Details form and returned this to L&G on 6 September 2012. He noted that 
had an echocardiogram in the last 12 months  results clear.  
Following the return of this form, L&G called Mr B to discuss his circumstances further. A 
tele-medical interview took place on 25 September 2012. Mr B explained he had been asked 
to undergo an echocardiogram both in 2011 and again in early 2012 following a referral 
when having unrelated checks for possible asthma. However, he had been reassured that 
he had no further action required after the cardiologist had written to him. He also had been 
told that he did not have asthma and that matter was closed as well. 
In October 2018, Mr B sadly passed away unexpectedly. Mrs B later made a claim under 
both life assurance policies.
When L&G assessed the claim, it asked for information about Mr Bs medical history as he 
had been particularly young at the time of his death. Consequently, it found that Mr B had 
been under ongoing review with a cardiologist, but there had been no mention of a future 
echocardiogram within the policy applications. Because of this, it sought further information 
from Mr Bs GP. 
It also talked to Mrs B about Mr Bs history. She explained that she wasnt present for the 
policy application process, but she did confirm Mr B had been repeatedly reassured that 
there was nothing for him to be concerned about and he had never had treatment for any 
heart condition. He had continued to undergo annual echocardiograms on a precautionary 
basis. Mr Bs death otherwise was completely unexpected.  
In May 2019, L&G told Mrs B that it was not going to pay claims under either policy. It said 
that during the course of its investigation it believed that Mr B had answered two questions 
incorrectly on his policy applications  these were one question about a history of heart 
problems, and another about having been advised to have hospital investigations, for 
example an echocardiogram.  
L&G noted how, contrary to the call held in September 2012, Mr B had actually remained 
under periodic care of the cardiologist. The letter he had been sent in March 2012 invited 
him for a further echocardiogram in December 2012. L&G said Mr B ought to have told it 
about that and recognised the significance of the tests. It classed this omission as a 
misrepresentation and said that the categorisation of the misrepresentation was careless. 
Had it known Mr Bs actual health circumstances it would not have been able to insure him 
at the time; it would have needed to postpone the application. L&G therefore cancelled both 
policies from the outset and returned the policy premiums to Mrs B. 
Mrs B complained. She said she was extremely unhappy with the outcome L&G had 
reached. She asked for copies of all the relevant medical information. She also said Mr B 
was a completely honest individual who would have answered all of L&Gs questions to the 
best of his knowledge at the time.
L&G treated Mrs Bs unhappiness as a complaint. It responded to the complaint in writing in 
August 2019. It also sent a copy of the medical information to Mrs B, as she hadnt 
previously asked to see it. 
It said it accepted Mr Bs application in good faith, as it has to rely on its customers to 
answer all of the application questions to the best of their ability. And, whilst it was not 
disputing Mr Bs integrity, it felt he had answered the two questions incorrectly. Because of 
this, it was entitled to determine a misrepresentation had happened from the outset. It 
considered the misrepresentation was best described as careless.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, L&G said it could consider a proportionate 
remedy. And though it could never have offered Mr B any critical illness cover, it could have 
insured him for life cover. However, because of Mr Bs medical history it would have rated 
both policies by +250. This would have had the effect of reducing the sums assured down to 
£118 and £20, respectively. L&G said the sum assured would have been too low for it to 
offer cover. 
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator said she thought L&G had behaved fairly in the 
circumstances. She said whilst she recognised why Mr B hadnt answered one of the 
questions (about having a heart condition) positively, he should have given more information 
regarding the question about having investigations, as a further echocardiogram was due in 
a few months time. 
Had L&G known the correct circumstances, the investigator said it would have postponed 
offering cover until it had the results of Mr Bs scan in December 2012, then it would have 
rated his life insurance and refused critical illness cover. Applying the rating to the sums 
assured now would lower them so significantly for each policy that L&G wouldnt have 
offered cover for the lower sums assured. 
She therefore said L&G had acted fairly by cancelling Mr Bs policies from the start and 
refunding both sets of premiums, on the basis there had been a non-disclosure.
Mrs B said she did not accept the findings of our investigator. She asked that the complaint 
be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. She made a number of further submissions 
that she wanted to be considered. In summary, she said:
Mr B died suddenly with absolutely no indication that he was unwell;
he was a young fit, happy, healthy man about to become a father for the first time;the investigator concluded that Mr B had an upcoming appointment in December 
2012 for another echocardiogram;
that isnt true  the letter sent to him by the consultant cardiologist says the hospital 
will contact him in the future not that an appointment had been arranged;
a differing letter mentioned November 2012, not December and this must show that 
in fact it hadnt been arranged and Mr B couldnt have known about it;
it is both unacceptable and ridiculous that L&G is basing its outcome of her claim on 
a forgotten appointment;
the letter sent to the GP contained no further information than was told to Mr B;
so, Mrs B fails to see how Mr B could have told L&G anything more than he did;
in fact, Mr B did disclose the information  because in the transcript from the tele-
medical interview, he told L&G that they didnt rule out having another 
[echocardiogram] in the future;
Mr B also said in that interview that he thought everything was ok  but he was 
having to paraphrase from a letter that he had been sent six months prior;
L&G was in an informed position compared to Mr B, and as a responsible insurer it 
should have conducted further enquiries into his medical records to retrieve the 
information about all the tests he had undergone (noted by Mr B as every test known 
to man);
Mr B was advised that his results of the echocardiogram he received were clear and 
that there were no findings that could lead to any heart disease, ill health or heart 
related problems;
nor was there any need for medication or treatment, which correlated with his 
responses to his telephone call interview; 
he never received any medication for any heart related problems or was told that this 
would impact on his health in any way;
in her opinion, with hindsight, L&G was negligent in assessing Mr Bs application and 
telephone interview; 
the doubt raised in the telephone interview over any future test should be weighted in 
Mr Bs favour;
nevertheless, Mr B did disclose that he may have future tests and therefore no non-
disclosure took place and L&G accepted the risk;
L&G should therefore pay out both claims now for the risk it accepted. 
L&G had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I wish to pass my condolences to Mrs B. I was very sorry to learn of 
the circumstances of Mr B passing away and I can see that Mrs B has gone through an 
incredibly traumatic time. I have taken on board everything she has said, along with L&Gs 
comments and the medical information available. 
I know that my decision is going to be upsetting for Mrs B. But I have to be fair to both 
parties in a complaint. Having reviewed everything carefully, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. I wont therefore be asking L&G to pay Mrs Bs claim. Ill explain 
my reasoning for that in full below. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what L&G has done. When it received the medical information to process 
Mrs Bs claim, it noted that Mr Bs cause of death was given as valvular heart disease.
L&G therefore sent a targeted report to Mr Bs GP on the basis of heart issues. It did this in 
accordance with relevant law on consumer disclosures. The law says expressly that an 
insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by the consumer 
before a consumer insurance contract was entered into. For that reason, L&G was 
reasonable in trying to determine what ought to have happened in 2012, as Mr Bs cause of 
death didnt accord with the policy information and the tele-medical interview.  
So, it falls to me to look at what Mr B was asked and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation or not. When he completed the application, he was asked the following:  
Have you ever; had diabetes or a heart condition, for example angina, heart attack, 
heart valve problem or heart surgery?; and 
Apart from anything you have already told us about during the last 12 months have 
you: had or been advised to have any investigations in hospital for example biopsy, 
CT scan, ECG, echocardiogram?
Mr B initially answered no to both those questions, but then on receipt of the Checking 
Your Details form which asked if L&G had recorded his details correctly, Mr B noted no 
and gave an update recording that he had undergone an echocardiogram within the relevant 
12 months and the results were clear.  
Like our investigator, I do not think Mr B misrepresented in relation to the first question. I 
have looked carefully at the letter the consultant cardiologist, Dr O, dated 2 March 2012. Dr 
O sent two letters  one to Mr B and another to the GP. These differed slightly, but the 
relevant letter is the one sent to Mr B as he did not go back to his GP about the matter. That 
letter says:
Thank you for attending for your recent CT scan. I am pleased to report this shows 
minimal enlargement of the aorta and certainly requires no specific action. I think it 
would be a good idea to keep an eye on your heart and have requested a further 
heart scan in December. In the meantime we may ask a geneticist to have a look at 
your case and decide whether or not you do actually have Marfans syndrome. We 
will be in contact in the near future.
Firstly, from Mr Bs perspective, the response makes no reference at all to mitral valve 
prolapse (the condition for which the rating of life assurance would apply). There is simply no 
evidence that the mitral valve finding was told to Mr B. He certainly was not made aware of it 
within the letter he received. I note that the letter to the GP sent on the same date answered 
the further query regarding Marfans syndrome and noted:
This gentleman has attended for further investigation. His echocardiogram shows an 
aortic root diameter of 3.9cm. There is no valvular regurgitation and there is good left 
ventricular function. There is slight mitral valve leaflet prolapse. CT aortogram 
showed minimal dilatation of the aortic root. The aorta was otherwise normal. I am 
not sure this gentleman meets the diagnostic criteria for Marfan's. From a cardiac 
point of view I think it would be reasonable to repeat his echo in January and keep 
his aortic root under surveillance. We could perhaps refer him to a geneticist.I would not expect a reasonable lay person to consider that minimal enlargement of his aorta 
requiring no attention or ongoing treatment to amount to a heart condition. I therefore do not 
believe Mr B misrepresented when answering the first question. As L&G has explained, 
relevant guidance on misrepresentation issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
Code of Practice on Misrepresentation explains how insurers can expect customers to 
answer clear questions carefully, accurately and to the best of their knowledge and belief. I 
consider Mr B did answer the first question to the best of the knowledge he had at the time. 
And whilst it went on to argue that Mr B had answered both questions incorrectly, I also note 
some specific comments made internally by L&Gs claims assessors that contradict that 
assertion. In May 2019 it was recorded that the claims assessor cannot dispute that this [the 
letter of 2 March 2012] does convey a message that essentially the results are nothing to 
worry about.
In the instance of the second question, Mr B himself identified that it had not been answered 
correctly in the first instance, and therefore he sought to put it right by declaring he had 
indeed undergone many tests, and specifically an echocardiogram in late 2011 and a CT 
scan in early 2012. So, I can understand why Mrs B asserts that he did not misrepresent his 
position in respect of those tests.  
But, the question (and the further questions put to Mr B in the tele-medical interview) asked 
Mr B if, during the last 12 months, he had been advised to have any investigations (such as 
echocardiograms or CT scan). And the letter to him from Dr O was quite clear that he had 
requested a further heart scan in December. The notes from that interview record Mr B as 
having said:
That was just because at the time Id had a cough for ages. They just did every kind 
of test known to man because it lasted longer than they were happy with.
I was tested for allergies and that was just one of the tests they did.
It was last January, the results were all normal. They didnt rule out having to do 
another one in the future, but they seemed ok with everything.
All tests came back normal.
No follow up or treatment as a result.
I think I had a letter to say everything was ok.
The cough cleared up on its own, no treatment needed for that.
Not under review or follow up.
I realise Mrs B says its particularly unfair to base the claim refusal on a forgotten 
appointment, but an insurer does have the right to expect accurate answers to clear medical 
questions. I can see Mr B couldnt recall what the letter said, as he had merely taken the 
headline from it that he was ok. He also did not have any cardiologist appointment with Dr O 
booked in at that time, so that clarifies why he said he was no longer under review. 
Nonetheless, the duty to tell L&G all relevant medical information was put to Mr B in both the 
application and the checking your details form. Though I can see Mr B considered his 
answers and quite clearly endeavoured to give the right answers by making an amendment, 
L&G did need to know about the appointment because it was going to be for another 
investigation  an echocardiogram. An investigation of that nature is something L&G needed 
to have a full understanding of because it was making an insurance decision on long term 
cover.
Though I recognise Mrs B has a credible and fair explanation for what has gone on, it is 
nonetheless clear that a misrepresentation took place as relevant information was withheld 
from L&G. And once thats been established, relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as 
careless. The types of categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. 
Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight to serious 
negligence, and I think Mr Bs actions sit in the lowest end of that range of responses. It was 
incredibly unfortunate that he forgot what the letter had said and that he did not seek to 
review it or relay it to L&G at the time. But I have to be reasonable to both parties in the 
complaint, and L&G was not at fault for that. It needed to know about any future 
appointments as the requirement for Mr B to undergo another echocardiogram had a direct 
bearing on the risk of offering him insurance at the time.   
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy and return 
the premiums paid by the customer from the outset.  
Since L&G did not know there was a further appointment, it based its insurance underwriting 
on what Mr B had told it. And because Mr B didnt know (but his GP records showed) about 
the mitral valve prolapse, he didnt tell L&G about that. However, he had told it about the 
further appointment, L&Gs underwriting shows that it would have postponed cover until Dr O 
had confirmed the outcome and therefore the records relating to the mitral valve finding 
would have been know. 
The ABI Code of Practice in respect of careless misrepresentation when deciding a 
proportionate remedy (the 2013 Code being the most relevant at the time of Mrs Bs claim), 
says:
4.2.5 The underwriting decision would have been deferred  In cases where the 
underwriting decision would have been deferred, or where the decision to defer the 
cover would have been made. As far as possible, insurers should try to 
determine what the ultimate underwriting decision would have been (that is, at 
the end of the deferred period or when the investigation was complete) and 
apply the appropriate remedy as above. If it is not possible to work out whether the 
insurer would have offered any cover, or if the deferral decision would have required 
the customer to re-apply at a future date, then this should be treated as a decline in 
4.2.4 above.
The postponement period was defined  it was three months approximately until Mr B had 
received an update from Dr O. At that point, he could resubmit his application with the fresh 
information. His GP records confirm that Dr O sent it a letter typed on 15 November 2012 
which said:
This gentleman recently attended for a further echocardiogram. Essentially the 
findings are unchanged. He has a mildly dilated aortic root and a myxomatous mitral 
valve with moderate regurgitation. I think we simply need to keep this under 
surveillance, and I will arrange for him to have a repeat scan in one year's time.
To be clear, that Mr B may have required to reapply later in 2012 did not mean L&G should 
retrospectively treat the claim as a decline (and I note it has not done so). The wording of the 
Code Ive set out in bold above is clear that if there is an ultimate underwriting decision after 
a deferred period, then the insurer must apply it. A decline would be if the ultimate decision 
was to require a re-application at a future date. I make that point because L&Gs internal guidance on postponement refers to the need for a 
customer to reapply. But that does not override the principles of good practice set out by the 
ABI in working out whether insurance could have been offered after a period of deferral or 
postponement has expired. 
In any event, L&G has confirmed that it could have offered Mr B life assurance after the 
postponement period, though sadly it could not have insured him for critical illness benefit. It 
has supplied this service confirmation of the relevant underwriting manual pages which 
would have been followed in the event of a mitral valve prolapse finding (with various 
impacts including valvular regurgitation), based on the age of the applicant. 
By the time of the further echocardiogram, the only material change to Mr Bs circumstances 
was a moderate degree of valvular regurgitation. I recognise that in general terms it is 
accepted how, in most people, mitral valve prolapse isn't life-threatening and doesn't require 
treatment or changes in lifestyle. Nonetheless, L&Gs underwriting philosophy with the 
finding is to rate life cover for most applicants based on a number of variables. For an 
applicant of Mr Bs age and only a moderate degree of regurgitation, this would result in a 
rating of +250.
That would have meant that in order to obtain the same values of cover at the time, Mr B 
would have had to pay a great deal more for the insurance. However, the ABI Code is clear 
that when working out a proportionate remedy in the instance of misrepresentation, the right 
approach is to look at the premium rates that applied when the policy/policies were taken out 
and work out what level of cover the premiums would actually have bought. Rating the cover 
by +250 would have reduced the retrospective sums assured under the policies to £118 and 
£20.
L&G hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policies in 2012 as it would have if it had 
known about Mr Bs correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the 
relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for it to amend the sums assured now. 
L&G has returned the policy premiums to Mrs B instead. I realise this could have been 
clearer to Mrs B as it appeared the cover was voided. However, L&G has since clarified that 
it did not return them because it voided the policies, but rather that the two refunds of 
£511.34 and £403.30 exceeded the claims payment value and also because at the time in 
2012, it couldnt have offered insurance with sums assured as low as £118 and £20. 
Though L&G is technically obliged to pay the proportionate remedy for the claims, its 
approach has actually exceeded those values. I therefore find it to have acted reasonably in 
the circumstances of the premium refund which incorporated and exceeded the claim 
values.  
I know my answer in this complaint wont be what Mrs B has hoped for, but as Ive set out 
above, L&G has acted fairly in the circumstances of the claims. I cannot ask it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Bs circumstances I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jo StoreyOmbudsman