DRN-2706233
The complaint
Mr Y complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc, trading as Toyota Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr Y under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota Financial 
Services that he signed in October 2019. He complained to the dealer about issues with the 
cars windscreen and it took actions to try to deal with the issue but agreed in February 2020 
that the windscreen would be replaced under warranty. 
That didnt happen so Mr Y complained to the dealer in December 2020. It apologised that 
the car hadnt been booked in for a windscreen replacement and it said that it would supply 
and fit a new windscreen, either under the manufacturers warranty or as a gesture of 
goodwill, and that it would cover the cars next service as a further gesture of goodwill due to 
the delays in resolving the windscreen concern. It also said that it would investigate some 
new concerns that Mr Y had raised about the multimedia system.
Mr Y then complained to Toyota Financial Services and said that he wanted to reject the car, 
a full refund and some compensation. It didnt uphold his request to reject the car and didnt 
believe that he should be compensated for the issues experienced. He wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality because of the issues with the windscreen. He recommended 
that Toyota Financial Services should: arrange for the replacement of the windscreen at no 
cost to Mr Y as well as an investigation of the wiper system; pay a refund of 10% of the 
monthly repayments paid to date due to impaired use; and pay £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience thats been caused.
Neither Mr Y nor Toyota Financial Services has accepted our investigators 
recommendations. Mr Y says that the refund should be based on the amount that he 
wouldve paid if he hadnt had a payment holiday, rather than the amount that hes actually 
paid, and that he expects the car to be collected from his address so that issues with the 
faulty windscreen, wipers, and multimedia system can be sorted out and then the car to be 
returned to him. He also says that the car failed an MOT test in April 2021 because a 
windscreen wiper didnt clear the windscreen effectively.
Toyota Financial Services says:
Mr Y didnt raise any concerns with it until a year after the car was supplied to him 
and the dealer re-confirmed its initial offer to replace the windscreen along with a free 
service as a goodwill gesture which it still believes to be fair and reasonable;
Mr Y was able to use the car to drive more than 10,000 miles in seven months so it 
feels that hes had fair use of the car as his estimated mileage for the finance 
agreement was confirmed as an average of 10,000 miles per year; and
Mr Y could have liaised with the dealer or service centre to ensure the action was 
taken which would have limited the inconvenience that he incurred and it feels that 
its unfair that it should have to refund a percentage of his instalments for the first 
year of purchase when it was unaware of the concern so unable to assist.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Toyota Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Y - whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr Y was a new car with a price of £19,746.56 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that theres an issue with the cars windscreen 
that was either present when the car was supplied to Mr Y or developed soon after 
that time  and I consider that the issue causes the car not to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Y; 
the dealer has said that it would supply and fit a new windscreen at no cost to Mr Y 
and that it would cover the cost of the cars next service as a gesture of goodwill due 
to the delays in resolving the issues with the windscreen;
Mr Y has also complained about some issues with the cars multimedia system and 
the dealer has said that it would also investigate those issues  but Ive seen no 
evidence to show that Mr Y has taken the car to the dealer for those issues to be 
investigated and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Toyota Financial Services to take any further action 
relating to the multimedia system;
Mr Y has complained about issues with the windscreen wipers not working properly 
and the car failed an MOT test in April 2021 because a windscreen wiper didnt clear 
the windscreen effectively;
the car passed an MOT test later that same say after a windscreen wiper had been 
replaced and its mileage was recorded as 20,033;
I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial 
Services to arrange for the dealer to investigate the windscreen wiper system;although Mr Y was able to use the car to drive more than 20,000 miles between 
October 2019 and April 2021 (and has continued to use it since then), theres been 
an issue with the windscreen since soon after the car was supplied to him and his 
use of the car will have been impaired by that issue;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to refund to 
Mr Y 10% of the monthly repayments that hes made under the agreement as 
compensation for that impaired use (but Im not persuaded that the refund should 
include payments that he would have made if he hadnt taken a payment holiday); 
I consider that these events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr Y - I 
find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to pay him 
£200 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience; and
I consider that a replacement of the windscreen, an investigation of the wiper system 
and the compensation that Ive described to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances  Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Toyota Financial Services to allow Mr Y to reject the car, to refund to him a 
larger proportion of his monthly payments or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Toyota Financial Services to take the actions 
described above and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ys complaint in part and I order Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) plc, trading as Toyota Financial Services, to:
1. Arrange for the cars windscreen to be replaced by the dealer at no cost to Mr Y.
2. Arrange for the dealer to investigate the cars windscreen wiper system.
3. Refund to Mr Y 10% of the the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement for the period until the windscreen is replaced as compensation for his 
impaired use of the car.
4. Pay £200 to Mr Y to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman