DRN-2706652
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about his investment in the Puma Venture Capital Trust (VCT) 10 fund 
(hereafter referred to as the Puma VCT or the fund) in March 2014. The investment was 
recommended by a partner firm (the firm) of St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP). 
Mr C says the investment was misrepresented to him, with regards to the nature of its term 
(and method of liquidation) and with regards to the payment of dividends and potential for 
growth. He is unhappy that it has resulted in a loss/potential loss of 33%. Overall, he says, if 
he knew in 2014 what he now knows about the investment he would not have invested in it.
SJP is the respondent in the present case, however the internal complaints process has 
featured complaint responses from both the firm and SJP  and both dispute the complaint.
Mr Cs investment was made alongside another investor in the Puma VCT with whom he has 
a connection. He and the other investor (I2) have expressly and jointly confirmed to this 
service that their investments were made at the same time and on the same facts/basis 
(other than having different invested amounts), were made on the same recommendation 
from the firm, have been complained about on the same grounds and have been referred to 
this service on the same grounds. They have also expressly and jointly requested that their 
respective cases be addressed in tandem by the same Ombudsman. This service granted 
their request, so I have been referred both cases to determine.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He mainly said as follows:
The Puma VCT was one of four VCT investments recommended by the firm at the 
time and Mr C invested a total of 100,000 GBP (equally split) into them, which 
represented 3% of his wealth.
The suitability letter (SL) that was sent to him at the time shows that he had a tax 
relief led objective, that he was prepared to invest over five to 10 years and that he 
had a different (high) risk profile for this purpose than he had for other investments. 
This was not an unreasonable approach and SJP was not wrong to tailor risk profiles 
for his different investments. 
Mr C says he was told the investment would deliver 30% on capital invested, that he 
would receive tax free dividends and that at the end of a five years period he would 
receive 90-95% of his capital if he liquidated the investment or he could retain it and 
continue to receive dividends. He is unhappy because he did not receive regular 
dividends and because it appears unlikely that he will receive the capital return he 
was led to expect. Overall, he appears to consider the investment unsuitable, but 
evidence shows otherwise.
The Puma VCT matched Mr Cs objective and it is in the nature of VCT investments 
that there are associated high risks (in return for valuable tax reliefs), that dividends 
are not guaranteed (there were no dividend guarantees in Mr Cs case) and that 
liquidation could take time to conclude. It should also be noted that the firm sought to 
achieve diversification in its recommendation by recommending four different VCTs.
Mr C signed a declaration at the time of advice which made the associated risks clear 
to him.
The firm conducted due diligence in the matter on two levels  it conducted its own 
due diligence on the provider of the Puma VCT and it used an independent research 
firm to conduct due diligence on the specific offering (and it received a report in this 
respect). This amounted to sufficient due diligence by the firm. 
Overall, the recommendation was not unsuitable.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome and he presented his grounds for doing so jointly with I2, 
whose complaint had also been addressed by the same investigator and had faced the 
same conclusion(s). In the main, Mr C said:
The investigators treatment of the case was fundamentally misguided, he addressed 
matters he had not complained about and omitted the key matters he had 
complained about. The complaint is mainly about the firm, at the outset (and, where 
relevant, thereafter), concealing and/or not discussing and/or not discovering (and 
then not disclosing) the true nature of the term of the Puma VCT, not disclosing how 
dividends from it were to be paid and misrepresenting his risk profile for it and 
potential returns from it.
The firm led him (and I2) to believe that his investment in the fund would mature in 
five years time. Having begun in 2014 this should have happened in 2019 and up to 
the firms email in April 2019 it expressly referred to its expectation that the fund 
would mature in mid 2019. This supports his claim that the firm advised a fixed five 
years term for the investment and continued to believe, and assert, this up to 2019. 
No such maturity took place in 2019 and none was due to take place. Contrary to 
what he was advised, the fund did not have a five years fixed term. Instead, its 
liquidation after five years was/is dependent on voting within the fund and, if there is 
a vote to liquidate, dependent on a further period of around two years before 
liquidation is completed. In his (and I2s) case, voting happened in October 2019 
(seven months after the fifth anniversary of the investment) and there was to be 
around another 24 months thereafter before any return of capital. He has been stuck 
in this process since 2019 and to date. At no point prior to 2019 did the firm disclose 
or discuss any of this to/with him. Its belated reasoning, in 2019, was that the Puma 
VCT was different to the others he (and I2) invested in because it is a limited life 
VCT (where the term is not fixed) and not a diversified VCT like the others (where 
the term is fixed), but none of this was previously conveyed or explained to him (and 
I2).
The complaint is not about not receiving dividends, instead it is about the firm not 
disclosing to him (and I2), at the time of the recommendation, that the fund would not  
pay dividends in the first two years of investment  which is what happened. When 
he (and I2) experienced the non-payments they were assured that it would translate 
to a higher liquidation value and a gain upon liquidation, but instead the fund has 
confirmed potential liquidation value of 67p in the pound so there will be a loss of 33%. Furthermore, and to date, the fund has not paid dividend since 2019 so there 
has been a second period of two years without dividend payments.
The complaint is also not about alleged failed due diligence or about alleged 
guarantees.
There is email evidence of him and I2 confirming to the firm in January 2014 that they 
did not want high risk investments.
He invested in 10 other VCT funds, they all matured on their fifth anniversary and 
they were all liquidated without undue delays, the Puma VCT is the only one with 
different exit arrangements  exit arrangements which were not disclosed to him at 
the outset. In the same context of the 10 other VCT funds that were recommended, 
and in response to the investigators comment about diversification, having one out of 
the total 11 that operated differently to the others does not establish diversification.
There is evidence of unreasonable inconsistency on SJPs part given that he (and I2) 
previously submitted complaints about Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) related 
recommendations from the firm which SJP upheld for the same type of non-
disclosure and misrepresentation grounds that exist in the present case. In this 
context, SJPs dispute of the present case is unreasonable.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman, as requested by Mr C (and I2).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated above, both Mr Cs complaint and the complaint from I2 have been referred to me. 
Each complaint has been made individually. Whilst I acknowledge that they are, in the main, 
the same complaint, and whilst my summary of the background (above) referred to both, my 
findings will address only Mr C, as he is the complainant in the present case. Nevertheless, 
both complaints have been treated in tandem as requested and because they rest on the 
same key facts (other than the difference in invested amounts), key grounds and key 
arguments, the same findings are reflected in both. 
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. I understand the key points he has made. I consider that, 
overall and on the grounds summarised above, he alleges misrepresentation/non-disclosure 
by the firm (and, ultimately, SJP) and, in parts, unsuitability of the firms advice (that is, the 
alleged misrepresentation/non-disclosure in the course of its advice plus unsuitability of the 
type of VCT that was recommended in the Puma VCT, of the level of risk the investment 
exposed him to and of the investments failure to match the objective for returns/growth. 
I note Mr Cs comparisons between the present case and the past EIS complaint he made, 
and it is clear he expects this point to be addressed. The EIS related complaint has not been 
put before me and it is beyond my remit to make any findings on it. I have been invited to 
draw the inference that SJP ought to have upheld the present complaint because it upheld 
the EIS related complaint on the same type of grounds that feature in the present. I 
understand the point Mr C seeks to make here, but consideration of this argument appears 
to be unnecessary. SJP did not uphold the complaint and the complaint has since been 
referred to this service. It follows that SJP is clearly not the final arbiter or decider in the 
matter. It also follows that we will independently determine the matter on its facts, evidence and merits, irrespective of how SJP addressed it, so a finding about the comparisons Mr C 
has referred to seems irrelevant in this case.
I set out my findings as follows:
I will address the matter of alleged unsuitability after I treat the alleged 
misrepresentation/non-disclosure issues. My reason is that my findings in the latter 
are relevant to the overall treatment of the former  that is, if there was 
misrepresentation or material non-disclosure by the firm in its advice to Mr C that, in 
themselves, would arguably be points of unsuitability; and that potentially adds to the 
merits of the overall unsuitability allegation; but if there was no misrepresentation or 
material non-disclosure by the firm, then the unsuitability allegation rests only on the 
other issues; those other issue being about the limited life characteristics of the 
Puma VCT, the level of risk within it and the potential for returns/growth from it all 
allegedly mismatching Mr Cs profile (mainly, his objective(s) and appetite for risk). 
The material pieces of information that Mr C says were not disclosed or discussed, 
and/or were misrepresented, at the time of advice are that the investment term for 
the Puma VCT was not fixed and was not fixed at five years; the arrangements that 
applied in order to liquidate the investment in the future (including the distinction 
between the fund being a limited life fund and not a diversified fund like the other 
VCTs he invested in); and the non-payment of dividends in the first two years of the 
investment.
The SL that was provided to Mr C had two main sections  a covering letter and then 
a recommendations report. The covering letter made clear reference to Mr C having 
been given the funds factsheet and prospectus, and reference to them being 
important documents for him to read in conjunction with the SL. In the My 
Recommendations part of the report there is a small table headed Diversified on 
one side and Limited Life on the other, and its contents summarise differences 
between both. The following was stated under the Limited Life section  The VCTs 
offer investors the opportunity to exit, at the five year point, without charges and 
reinvest for further tax relief.
The report proceeded to recommend both types of VCTs and, relevant to this 
complaint, it also said Mr C wanted  to have the opportunity if at all needed to exit 
the VCTs after 5 years which is why the Puma VCT 10 was recommended as this is 
a Limited Life VCT. 
Thus far, I have referred to evidence that the two types of VCTs were presented to 
Mr C in the SLs report, to evidence that he was told the Limited Life VCT gave him 
an opportunity to exit at the five years point (which denotes an option and is not the 
same as maturity after a fixed term of five years) and, consistent with the notion of an 
optional exit, I have referred to the above quote which suggests that the opportunity 
to exit the Puma VCT after five years was also deemed optional by Mr C and was not 
a requirement of his. I appreciate he could argue that he has not alleged it was a 
requirement and that his allegation is that he was led to expect maturity at the funds 
fifth anniversary, but the above quote is inconsistent with such an expectation. If 
maturity at the funds fifth anniversary is what the firm said to him the quote above 
said something different  that is, optional exit after five years  so he ought 
reasonably to have queried this at the time, but there is no evidence that he did. 
Instead, the balance of evidence is that he accepted the SL and its contents; and the 
SL stands as reliable evidence that defeats his claim about being led to expect 
maturity at the funds fifth anniversary.Further evidence that defeats his claim exists in the funds factsheet and prospectus. 
The VCT Client declaration he signed on 6 March 2014 confirmed, amongst other 
things, that he had  read and understood the marketing materials produced by the 
provider(s) of the product(s) in which I have invested, which would have included the 
factsheet and prospectus he was given  with available evidence suggesting that 
these were emailed to him on the same date. In addition, the SLs covering letter 
referred to these documents having previously been given to him and there is no 
evidence that he disputed that at the time.
The factsheet is a relatively brief two-page document, which leads with the message 
that it must be read in conjunction with the prospectus. There is no mention of a 
fixed term in this document. Instead, it states that it is the funds objective to wind 
itself up after five years, but it also warns that the fund can be  typically illiquid and 
investors must be aware they may have difficulty realising, or may be unable to 
realise their shares at levels close to that which reflect the value of the underlying 
assets.
The prospectus is a much more detailed document (48 pages in total) and I have 
noted submissions that suggest Mr C did not consider or might not have considered 
its details, could not reasonably have been expected to do so and/or did not read the 
small print. I disagree with the second suggestion. Both the SL and the factsheet 
confirmed how important it was for him to read the details in the prospectus and he 
signed a confirmation that he had read and understood materials produced by the 
funds provider. If he abandoned his reasonable responsibility to read information 
provided to him about an investment he was making he cannot fairly allege  or 
allege with merit  that said information was not given to him; and he cannot 
reasonably argue that any unawareness on his part caused by not reading said 
information should be overlooked.
Despite the length of the prospectus, it is noteworthy that the first page is simply the 
cover/title page, the second page features a summary of the provider and its 
investments (mainly in bitesize and large font format) and the third page does a 
similar thing for five key summaries of the providers approach towards the Puma 
VCT 10 product. On this page the following is said, not in small print but in clear 
partly bold capital letters and above average sized font, about the funds term  
LIMITED LIFE 
AFTER 5 YEARS, SHAREHOLDERS CAN VOTE ON WINDING-UP THE 
COMPANY. 
The next bitesize summary says  
TARGET DIVIDEND 
TARGETTED 6p PER SHARE DIVIDEND AFTER TWO YEARS [my emphasis]
Incidentally, there is also evidence of an email sent to Mr C, very shortly after his 
investments in the VCTs, in March 2014 attaching and disclosing to him email 
correspondence between the firm and the investment providers in which the 
breakdowns of the investments were set out. Part of the attachment is an email from 
Puma which includes a table showing how Mr Cs investment in the fund was 
allocated and which also includes the following   The amount of shares that the client will receive is shown in the end column. This is the effective 100p from which 
the p in the £ returns are shown (ie the 6p per annum dividend from year 2) [my 
emphasis]. I am satisfied that this was further information about the dividend 
payments arrangement that was provided to Mr C.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded by all the aforementioned evidence and I 
conclude that the material information  about the term of the fund, its limited life 
characteristic, arrangements for liquidation of Mr Cs investment and/or the fund and 
the non-payment of dividends in the funds first two years  Mr C says were not 
disclosed to him and/or were misrepresented to him were indeed disclosed to him 
and were not misrepresented to him. I am mindful of the wider arguments he has 
made in this respect  such as his reference to the firms email in April 2019 
indicating that it too thought the fund matured in mid 2019  but the matter to 
determine is not what the firm knew or did not know in 2019 (or perhaps even at any 
other time), it is what was or was not disclosed to Mr C in 2014 (in the context of his 
allegation), and that is what has been addressed above, with sufficient evidence to 
do so.
Key elements of an investments suitability (or otherwise) include consideration of an 
investors objective(s), risk profile (which can include or be paired with capacity 
and/or tolerance for loss) and investment experience. Of course, it is important that 
the investors overall profile in these respects match the recommended investment(s) 
and that the advice properly informs the investor about the investment(s). 
Mr C does not appear to allege unsuitability on all fronts, but only with regards to the 
alleged non-disclosure/misrepresentation that I addressed above, an alleged 
mismatch with his appetite for risk, an alleged mismatch in terms of the limited life 
nature of the Puma VCT (in contrast to the other 10 investments he made in a 
different type of VCT) and an alleged mismatch with his objective for returns and 
growth. Nevertheless, it is worth briefly mentioning that I have not seen cause to 
consider the recommendation of the fund as unsuitable for his capacity for loss 
(including affordability) at the time. The investment used a small part of his overall 
wealth. I do not suggest in any way that loss of or from it was inconsequential, but 
there is evidence that he had ample capacity to bear such loss. With regards to his 
investment experience, fact find evidence from around 2014 does not show that he 
had experience of previous VCTs but given the unique tax relief led objective he had 
 which is repeatedly referenced in the SL  it is not unusual to consider mainstream 
equities investment experience (as Mr C had with his ISA at the time) sufficient to 
proceed with as a basis for experience in investment risks. In addition, he appears to 
have had a notable set of personal pension and life assurance arrangements at the 
time, which would have added to his overall investment experience. Mr C might say 
that he has not complained about any of these so they are irrelevant, but it is 
important to consider potential areas of unsuitability where they might be relevant to 
a case.
It is also important to be mindful that, depending on the circumstances, there could 
be more than one suitable recommendation for an investor. The regulatory duty upon 
a firm in giving advice does not require a firm to give more suitable advice or the 
most suitable advice  just to give suitable advice. I mention this because of Mr Cs 
view of the limited life Puma VCT compared to the non-limited life VCT funds he held 
in the other 10 investments. They were all VCTs and the only difference in 
characteristics appears to be the fixed term that he says applied to the other 10 and 
the absence of a fixed term in the Puma VCT. However, if the latter did not mismatch his overall profile it would not have been unsuitable for him, even if he considers that 
the former were more suitable.
As I have addressed above, there is no finding that material information about the 
fund, as cited in his complaint, was not disclosed or was misrepresented to Mr C, so 
it follows that there is no issue of unsuitability in this respect.
With regards to the limited life characteristics of the Puma VCT, he was properly 
informed about that  in the contents of the SL, the factsheet and the prospectus  
and there is no evidence that he objected to any of that or voiced concern that this 
was not the type of VCT he wanted. His agreement with the recommendation, based 
on said information, supports the conclusion that, on balance, it was a type of VCT 
he was prepared to undertake for his tax relief led objectives. I do not find 
unsuitability in this respect.
Mr C refers to an email in January 2014 in which he told the firm that he did not want 
a high-risk investment. My first observation is that proper and full reading of the email 
exchange (with the firm) provides context and shows that the conversation was not 
about VCTs but was about EIS investments and it was more about the degrees of 
risks within such investments. The second observation is that the VCT Client 
declaration he signed around two months later in March 2014 included his express 
agreement to four explicit statements confirming he accepted that VCTs were high 
risk investments, were for high net worth investors who could afford to lose money, 
were inherently illiquid and that their tax treatment could change with future 
legislation. He was fully informed of, and agreed with, the high risks in VCTs that 
were described to him  to the extent that he invested in 10 others  and it is 
confirmed in the SL (which he did not dispute at the time) that whilst his usual 
appetite for risk was lower, he adopted this particular high risk approach for the 
purpose of the tax reliefs he sought. Overall, on balance and for these reasons I do 
not consider that the risks in the Puma VCT were unsuitable for him.
There were no performance guarantees and Mr C has not said otherwise. I have not 
seen evidence that says it was inconceivable for the Puma VCT to have achieved the 
tax relief benefits he sought  which appears to have been achieved and which he 
appears to have received  in addition to the potential performance that was 
described (but not guaranteed) to him. The latter was feasible given that the fund 
invested in small companies which were going concerns engaged in business for 
profit. On balance, I do not consider that the loss or potential loss he has described is 
evidence of a breach of his objective in this respect. Part of the declaration he signed 
acknowledged and accepted that the firm/SJP would have nothing to do with the 
funds management and would not be liable in that respect. This is relevant to my 
consideration of the issue about non-payment of dividends since 2019. That was/is 
not within the firms/SJPs remit or control and I have not seen evidence that such 
non-payment was foreseen or foreseeable during its 2014 advice. Overall and on 
balance I do not agree that the funds recommendation mismatched Mr Cs 
returns/growth objectives and it appears to have met his tax relief objective.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman