DRN-3732240
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the charges and what he describes as a compulsory 
cancellation of a learner drivers car insurance policy which he bought with Collingwood 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Mr Ws father is representing him in his complaint. For ease Ill refer to Mr W in my decision. 
What happened
Mr W bought a learner drivers car insurance policy with Colllingwood. Before the end of the 
policy term, Mr W passed his test so Collingwood - in line with the terms of the policy - 
retained the yearly premium and charged a cancellation fee of £25. 
Mr W thought this was unfair and said Collingwood hadnt been clear about its fees when he 
bought the policy. 
Collingwood didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. So Mr W asked us to look at things for him. 
Our Investigator didnt think Collingwood had acted unreasonably. 
Mr W didnt agree. He provided examples of online reviews about Collingwood from other 
customers which he says shows its cancellation fees arent clear due to feedback with the 
same concern. He says the cancellation was compulsory and he should have been given the 
option either to allow the policy to lapse or to have it cancelled free of charge. Hes unhappy 
that we havent addressed his concern about the call he had with Collingwood when the 
cancellation was discussed. Mr W says Collingwood hasnt treated him fairly and he is a 
vulnerable customer due to his age. 
So Mr W wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the reviews online which Mr W has provided. We look at each case on its own merits.
Mr W is unhappy that the cancellation was compulsory. He says he was happy for the policy 
to run to the end of the term and lapse.
On the first page of the policy document under the title Important Collingwood says:
This policy is only designed to provide cover whilst you are learning to drive 
You must notify us immediately when you pass your driving test 
Your failure to inform us when you pass your driving test will mean that cover is not 
valid and you risk prosecution for driving without insurance
So the terms of the policy say that the policy only provides cover while learning to drive. And  
a condition of cover is that the policyholder must let Collingwood know immediately of this 
change. 
So I dont think the cancellation of the policy by Colllingwood was unfair or unreasonable - as 
it was clearly set out as a condition of the cover if Mr W passed his test before the end of the 
policy year. I understand Collingwood contacted Mr W as the policy before the expiry date 
with a view to discuss renewal. It was during this call that Collingwood discovered Mr W had 
passed his test. As Mr W had passed his test, the basis of cover had changed. So I dont 
think Collingwood acted unreasonably in not giving Mr W the option to decide to allow the 
policy to continue to the end of the year and lapse. 
Mr W says this is an unusual clause and if Collingwood applies it, it shouldnt charge a 
cancellation fee. But I dont find it unusual for an insurer to decide to no longer provide cover 
mid-way through a policy term if there is a change in a policyholders circumstances - and - 
as in this case - the insurer makes it clear on application of the policy. All insurers underwrite 
policies depending on their risk appetite. This is why there is such a wide range of prices on 
comparison websites by different insurers for the same level of cover. 
Collingwood provided a table showing on a sliding scale how much of a percentage of the 
full premium it will retain on cancellation. As Collingwood has applied the terms of the policy 
and those terms were set out before Mr W bought the policy, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Collingwood to apply them on cancellation. 
Mr W is unhappy with a call he had with Collingwood where the cancellation fee was 
discussed. This isnt a complaint Collingwood has responded to and so doesnt form part of 
my decision. If Mr W wishes to raise this complaint with Collingwood and - once it has had 
the opportunity to respond to the complaint - if Mr W remains unhappy we can look at this for 
him. 
Collingwood clearly set out the fees and charges that would apply in the event of early 
cancellation under its Terms of Business - which Mr W agreed to before purchasing the 
policy. I dont think the charges or terms of cover were hidden. And so as Mr W accepted the 
terms and conditions of the policy - and the fees as set out by Collingwood before buying the 
policy - I dont think it has done anything wrong. I think it has treated Mr W fairly and any 
other customer in the same circumstances. 
I understand Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, I 
think Collingwood acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms. So Im not asking it to 
do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman