DRN-4330944
The complaint
Mr H complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) and the service they provided 
after they attended his property to complete an annual service as part of the Homecare 
policy he held.
What happened
Mr H held a Homecare insurance policy, underwritten by BGI. As part of this policy, Mr H 
qualified for an annual service of the boiler at his property.
On 9 February 2023, BGI attended Mr Hs home to complete this service. But the following 
day, his boiler broke down leaving him without heating and hot water. BGI sent an engineer 
to investigate the issue, and Mr H says he was told a new boiler would need to be installed, 
being provided a quote for this a few days later.
But Mr H didnt think a new boiler was necessary. And so, he asked BGI send another 
engineer to provide a second opinion. Engineers attended Mr Hs home on 23 and 25 
February, both explaining a repair could be attempted with a new heat exchanger and plate 
being required. BGI provided Mr H with a quote for this work, both in person and in a letter 
sent on 23 February.
But Mr H says the quotes he was provided were conflicting. And that BGI had told him his 
complaint had been closed without any outcome. So, because of the above, Mr H chose to 
have his boiler replaced with BGI installing a new one in early March at Mr Hs expense. Mr 
H was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr H was unhappy with the service BGI had provided when attempting to fix his boiler, and 
the conflicting information he was given during this process. Mr H felt BGIs errors caused 
him to purchase a new boiler unnecessarily and so, he wanted BGI to contribute to the cost 
of this, considering the financial impact it had on him considering his personal situation. Mr H 
also wanted to be compensated for the upset hed been caused by the inconvenience. BGI 
didnt provide a response to Mr Hs complaint within the eight-week period theyre given and 
so, Mr H referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked int the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think there was any 
evidence to suggest the break down of the boiler was caused by something BGI did wrong 
during the annual service. And although they agreed there was some conflicting information 
provided to Mr H, they thought Mr H was made reasonably aware a repair was available. So, 
they thought it was Mr Hs own decision to proceed with a full boiler replacement and the 
associated cost. And because of this, they didnt think BGI should contribute towards this. 
But they did think BGI should compensate Mr H for the service Mr H received and they 
recommended BGI pay Mr H £150.
BGI accepted this recommendation. But Mr H didnt. He provided evidence to show his boiler 
wasnt 20 years old as BGI had said, but instead 14 years old at the time of breakdown. And 
he disputed he was told sludge was in his system, and that he hadnt taken any action to 
remove this. So, he maintained his belief that BGI should share a substantial portion of the 
cost he incurred replacing the boiler.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs comments, but their decision remained the same. Mr H 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider. Im aware Mr H is unhappy with BGIs handling of his 
complaint. And, how he feels this impacted his decision to purchase a new boiler. But our 
service is unable to consider, or comment on, how a business handles a complaint as 
complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so, outside of our jurisdiction. So, I wont 
be commenting on this aspect of the complaint any further.
I also note that BGI have accepted our investigators recommendation that they pay Mr H 
£150 for the failures in their service, and the conflicting information they provided. As BGI 
accepted this recommendation, I think its reasonable for me to assume this aspect of the 
complaint is no longer in dispute. So, I wont be commenting on the merits of the issue any 
further and I will return to the issue when thinking about what BGI should do to put things 
right.
Instead, Ive focused my decision on the main point that remains in dispute. And this centres 
around whether BGI have acted unfairly when not agreeing to contribute an amount to the 
costs Mr H incurred when purchasing a new boiler. And, whether Mr H purchased this boiler 
because of something BGI did wrong.
Having considered both Mr H and BGIs testimony, and BGIs system notes documenting the 
work their engineers undertook, Ive seen no evidence to suggest any work BGI did during 
the annual service caused Mr Hs boiler to break. While I recognise the timing, and why Mr H 
would assume this, I also need to consider the age of Mr Hs boiler which hes evidenced as 
being around 14 years old at the time. Even though this is younger than the 20 years BGI 
estimated, this is still older than the regular shelf life for a boiler and so, I think its 
reasonable to assume that any work on a boiler of that age, including a service, may lead to 
unknown issues presenting themselves. So, I dont think the service itself means BGI should 
then contribute to the costs of the boiler.
Ive then thought about the engineers visits between 10 February to 25 February. And as 
Ive stated above, I think its accepted there has been some conflicting information provided. 
While BGIs system notes suggest Mr H is the one to instigate the idea of having a new 
boiler, Ive seen nothing to suggest the engineer on this day advised a repair was possible.
So, I do think this wouldve appeared misleading to Mr H, when he was then told on 23 and 
25 February that a repair was possible. And I can see from the system notes, compared to 
the letter BGI sent to Mr H on 23 February, that there were differing quotes provided for how 
much this work would cost. So again, I can understand why Mr H would be left feeling 
confused.But crucially, I dont think this means the service BGI provided led Mr H to purchase a boiler 
when he didnt need to. I think BGI made Mr H aware in person, and in writing in their letter 
dated 23 February, that a repair was available. And had Mr H wanted a repair to be 
completed, I wouldve expected him to chase arrangement of this with BGI. But I cant see 
that he did so.
Instead, I can see Mr H chose to arrange a replacement to be installed. And so, I think this 
was his own decision to make. I also must consider the fact that, in Mr Hs policy documents, 
it makes it clear a boiler replacement would be provided and covered by BGI at no cost to Mr 
H if his boiler had been under 7 years old, or 10 years old and fitted by BGI. In this situation, 
Mr Hs boiler was 14 years old and fitted by a separate company. So, I dont think BGI are 
obligated to contribute to the costs of Mr Hs boiler replacement, nor do I think they are unfair 
by not agreeing to contribute after it had been installed. And because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
Ive then returned to BGIs conflicting information, and the inconvenience this caused Mr H. I 
note our investigator recommended BGI pay Mr H £150 to recognise this, and any upset this 
caused. And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve recommended, had it not already been made.
I think it fairly reflects the confusion caused to Mr H by being quoted for a new boiler, but 
also being told a repair could be completed. And I think it also addresses the delays this 
caused in Mr H arranging an eventual replacement, and the inconvenience he wouldve 
been caused being without a functioning boiler during this time.
But I think it also reflects the fact that, on 23 February, BGI made it clear both verbally and in 
writing that a repair was an option. And I cant see that Mr H agreed to continue with this 
option, so I dont think I can hold any delays after this solely the fault of BGI. I appreciate Mr 
H may say he didnt receive the letter with the quote until early March, when it was dated 23 
February. But Im satisfied it was sent on this date, to the correct address. Any delays in Mr 
H receiving this letter would be the responsibility of the postal service and outside of BGIs 
control.
And while I note there is some dispute about whether the repair shouldve been chargeable 
to Mr H, or covered under the policy terms, considering whether there was sludge in the 
system, either way I think Mr H was reasonably aware a repair was an option. And, that this 
wouldve been financially much less impactful than a total replacement of his boiler. 
So, Im satisfied that the £150 recommendation is a fair one on this occasion and so, it is 
one I am directing BGI to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr H £150 to recognise the inconvenience and upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman