DRN-1963913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Amtrust Europe Limited settled a claim for lost 
jewellery under their home insurance policy and with the way it handled the claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M contacted Amtrust in August 2019 regarding a claim for four items of lost 
jewellery comprising two rings, a bracelet and one of a pair of earrings. 
Amtrust appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. After carrying out various checks 
Amtrust accepted the claim. In mid-November the loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs M theyd 
receive a cash settlement of £7,915 less the policy excess. 
Amtrust later clarified that the cash settlement would in fact be £5,964. It apologised for the 
fact that theyd been led to expect a higher settlement. It said the settlement was based on 
what it would have cost it to buy vouchers for replacement items from its supplier. 
Mr and Mrs M brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She thought the 
cash settlement was fair but Amtrust should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the 
disappointment caused by raising their hopes as to the settlement they might receive.
After further discussion Amtrust agreed to increase the settlement by £288 because it 
wasnt offering replacement earrings. It said the extra £288 would bring that part of the 
settlement up to the full repair cost of the earrings without any discount.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Amtrusts settlement offer was fair. In doing so I need to take into 
account the policy wording. It says:
Insurers will at their option repair or pay the cost of replacement of the lost or damaged 
property without deduction for wear, tear or depreciation.
What this policy term boils down to is that the insurer can choose how to go about settling 
the claim. The policyholder doesnt get a choice. Theres nothing unreasonable about that in 
principle  the insurer is the one paying for the claim, so its only fair that it decides how the 
claim will be settled and, as a result, how much it costs.
Insurers will often choose to replace items when settling contents insurance claims because 
they have established relationships with retailers. Again in principle theres nothing unfair 
about the insurer having these agreements. Those relationships often mean the insurer has 
pre-agreed discounts with the retailers that allows it to purchase items below the market 
price. That can lower the cost to the insurer and benefits consumers overall by reducing the 
cost of claims. 
I accept the policy doesnt mention vouchers. But insurers will often offer jewellery vouchers 
to their policyholders to replace an item. This services approach to settlements to replace 
lost items is that its reasonable for the insurer to offer vouchers or payment cards if the 
items can be replaced. In this case, Im satisfied Amtrust can offer broadly similar items in 
the case of the rings and the bracelet to Mr and Mrs M using its preferred suppliers and the 
voucher amount its offered for those is what it would have paid for replacement items. 
Amtrust says the vouchers can be used at most high street jewellers. Because Amtrust can 
offer broadly similar replacements for these items of lost jewellery, I think its fair for it to limit 
cash settlement to what it would have cost it to replace them using the discounts available to 
it. 
Amtrust preferred not to offer replacement earrings. So it wouldnt be fair to discount the 
cash settlement based on what it would have paid. I agree that it should increase the cash 
settlement by £288 in respect of this so that its paying what according to its jewellery 
supplier it would cost Mr and Mrs M for a replacement. Subject to this, while I appreciate this 
is not the decision they hoped for, I find that the settlement offered by Amtrust is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive looked at how Amtrust handled the claim. Its not unusual with a claim for valuable lost 
jewellery for an insurer to make various enquiries and investigations. Having looked at the 
timeline I dont think Amtrust took an unreasonable amount of time before it was ready to 
settle the claim.
Where it did fail Mr and Mrs M was causing them the disappointment of its loss adjuster 
indicating theyd receive a cash settlement of almost £2,000 more than they actually 
received. In the circumstances I think its fair that Amtrust should pay them £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M (if it has not 
already done so) £288 by way of an increased cash settlement for the earrings and £100 
compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman