DRN-4019900
The complaint
Mr F complains about the AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) who declined 
his claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a named storm, Mr Fs home was damaged. The damage was to the roof in that a 
few tiles became dislodged, a section of the soffit had collapsed, and the mortar verge was 
damaged. 
Mr F contacted AA to make a claim. It sent a surveyor who inspected the property and noted 
the damage. The surveyor who attended (and wrote a report) concluded that the damage 
was caused as a result of high winds. That the cause of damage was a storm and that there 
were no pre-existing or ongoing external buildings defects or issues, there were not peril 
related. The surveyor recommended that the claim was to be accepted and that AA should 
carry out the repairs. 
During the claims assessment, AA accepted that there were storm conditions around the 
time of the damage, namely strong winds. And that the strong winds came into the definition 
of the policy terms and conditions. But AA declined the claim on the basis that the cause of 
damage, wasnt as a result of the storm. 
Mr F complained to AA and in its final response it said that there was a cracked tile on the 
roof and that their desktop surveyors (who had been sent images from the site surveyor) 
decided that the cracked tile had been there for some time, as there was moss growing 
around it.  The desktop surveyor also said that water had got under the tile and into the soffit 
board affecting the tile batten and causing the board to rot. The winds merely highlighted the 
damage, and the storm wasnt the cause of the damage. 
Mr F was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it. She agreed with AA that the 
cause of damage was due to wear and tear. And as wear and tear wasnt covered under the 
policy, AA were reasonable to decline the claim. 
AA accepted the view, Mr F did not. He said that the property had been in a good state of 
repair prior to the storm. There had been no leaks internally and the damage only happened 
after the storm. He also said that his family relative who was a civil engineer and contractor 
had advised that a cracked tile wouldnt lead to water penetration of this nature. This was 
because there is a waterproof membrane. And the membrane wouldve stopped water 
getting through or around tiles in the event of damage or windblown rain.  So, he asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a second 
provisional decision on 7 March 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
April 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint, and I hope my provisional findings explain 
why I think this is fair. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether AA fairly declined the claim, under the policy 
exclusion of wear and tear.  
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event. So, the first 
answer to the first question is yes. And this leads to question two, is the damage claimed, 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
AA initially sent an onsite surveyor who inspected the damage, took images, and wrote a 
report. I have read the report and I note the following: 
The surveyor found that the damage was consistent with a storm. The damage was 
dislodged roof tiles, a collapsed soffit and the mortar verge was damaged. 
The surveyor was satisfied that there were no pre-existing damage or defects that 
were not peril related. And that the property had previously been in a good state of 
repair.
The surveyor uploaded images to AA and recommended that it accept the claim. 
I note from the final response, that AA accept that the damage seen by the onsite surveyor 
(and reported by Mr F) was consistent with the damage that a storm could cause. So, the 
answer to question two is yes. 
Turning to the final question of whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage, AA relied on the policy exclusion of wear and tear. It said that the storm had merely 
highlighted pre-existing damage to the roof and wasnt the main cause of the damage to it. It relied wholeheartedly on its inhouse surveyor, who had not attended or physically 
inspected the roof. But had viewed the images sent to AA by the field surveyor. AA has not 
provided me with any information as to why the evidence from its expert (namely the field 
surveyor) was wholly discounted. And why the field surveyors evidence couldnt be relied 
upon. And why only the evidence from the desktop surveyor was credible, given that the 
desktop surveyor didnt carry out a physical onsite inspection. 
Further, AA didnt say why it accepted parts of the field surveyors report (such as accepting 
the damage caused was damage that would reasonably be seen following a storm) and 
rejected other parts of the report, such as the field surveyors conclusion that the damage 
caused as due to a storm.
In addition, it said that the: report supplied by the surveyor who attended site and have 
confirmed that the cracked tile had been there for some time, as highlighted by the moss 
growing around it.
I have further reviewed the report and I cant see where the field surveyor mentioned 
anything about a cracked tile or moss indicating that the tile had been cracked for some 
time. Indeed, Im satisfied that the report said that there were no pre-existing defects/issues 
that were non peril related. 
I accept that some images show moss on the roof. But I can only see that one tile and none 
of the other tiles appeared cracked. I wouldve thought if wear and tear caused the tile to 
crack and this was evidenced due to the presence of moss, I wouldve expected more than 
one tile to have this damage. 
Also, as Ive previously mentioned, the field surveyor did not mention that the damage to the 
roof was due to wear and tear. As they concluded that there was no pre-existing damage or 
issues to the roof that were non-peril related. Im also persuaded by Mr Fs experts 
comments that a cracked tile doesnt necessarily cause water penetration, given the 
presence of a waterproof membrane.
Lastly, having reviewed the field surveyors report, (who was present on-site, and I think 
better placed to give an assessment of the damage) that concluded that the cause of the 
damage to the roof was due to a storm (high winds). Moreover, that there were no pre-
existing or on-going external building defects or issues, that werent peril related. And that 
the claim was covered under the policy terms. For these reasons, I give more weight to the 
field surveyors conclusions, over the comments of the desktop surveyor, who only reviewed 
images. 
Finally, I think that this event would have been stressful for Mr F especially given his 
vulnerabilities. So, I think its reasonable that AA pay Mr F £200 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
And, to put matters right, I intend to direct AA to settle the claim as per the recommendations 
made by the field surveyor. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide any other evidence or comments that they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr F said that he would accept the provisional decision. He said that without physical 
inspection, including tile removal, he couldnt see what more could be added to the 
comments.  He also said that he was in hospital again due to ill health. The AA sent further photos (the same ones that had already been submitted). It also 
obtained another report from its desktop surveyor. It also made the following comments: 
Field surveyors were tasked with assessing the damage and not the cause of 
damage. The only time its referred to is to confirm what customers have told them.
The final response outlines its position. In that the cause of damage was wear and 
tear as the winds merely highlighted pre-exiting damage. And the damage caused 
wasnt due to the storm. 
It had its in-house surveyor re-assess the photos and he confirmed that the damage 
was due to wear and tear: We maintain the position that the cracked and dislodged 
tile and pointing along the verge as well as next to the Dorma has been like that for 
some time as there is mildew/moss in the affected areas. it appears that due to the 
way the gutter on the down pipe discharges the storm water onto the section of verge 
tiles has caused the under tile batten to collapse causing the tile to sink , with this 
gap as well as the old cracked tiles along the verge has allowed water ingress into 
the soffit board area causing the fixing timbers for the UPVC soffit board to rot, 
making it easy for the soffit board to come loose.
I have carefully considered both parties comments. Having reviewed the photographs that 
both parties have now provided, I make the following observations. 
Both parties accept that there were storm conditions at the time, namely that the 
winds were strong enough to amount to a storm, under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
AA said that the cause of damage was due to wear and tear. It relied upon its internal 
assessors to arrive at this conclusion. 
AA said that its field surveyor was tasked with assessing the damage and not 
providing any evidence of causation. 
I have further reviewed the field surveyors report, in light of the further comments sent in by 
the AA. I have looked at whether the report only assessed the damage caused and did not 
give information regarding causation. Having reviewed this, I don think it did and Ill explain 
why. 
The first page of the report gives details about the property that was inspected. And in the 
section under property information, it states: general condition of the property, good state of 
repair. I think this gives the reader an initial insight to the state of the property at the time of 
inspection. Further, I think that this is an opinion of the state of the property given by the 
surveyor who inspected it. 
Whilst I accept that under the section entitled key information the insured provided 
information about how the damage was caused: During high winds damage was caused to 
the roof and soffit. I dont think there is any other information provided by the insured that 
was included in the report. 
Also, I do think that the field surveyor provided evidence of what caused the damage: 
Summary of External Damage There is damage to the roof in that several tiles have been 
dislodged, a section of the soffit has collapsed, and the mortar verge is damaged. 
The surveyor then gives his opinion on cause of damage, state of property prior to the storm 
and whether or not the damage is covered under the policy:
Any pre-existing or ongoing external buildings defects/issues that are not peril related? No
Have you uploaded external images to the "Locations" section in the scoping tool? YesIs the external damage covered by the policy?  Yes
Underwriting concerns? No
Further the surveyor confirms that the damage should be reinstated by the AA: 
Description of reinstatement repairs: Reinstate the tiles that have moved, re-point the 
damaged verge and replace damaged section of the soffit.
Approximate duration of repair works (weeks) 1
The surveyor concludes the report by stating: Insurer to carry out repairs.
I am satisfied that the surveyor who inspected the property, took the photos, and wrote a 
report, had given his opinion as to the cause of the damage to the property. I also wouldve 
expected that had the cause of damage been wear and tear (as the desktop surveyor stated) 
that the field surveyor wouldve mentioned it, especially as there was a specific question in 
the report of whether there were any underwriting concerns. 
Finally, the AA has given no information to me as to why the field surveyors evidence should 
be discounted. 
For all of these reasons, I give more weight to the field surveyors comments and 
conclusions, over the comments of the desktop surveyor, who only reviewed images. 
Lastly, I think that this event would have been stressful for Mr F especially given his 
vulnerabilities. So, I think its reasonable that the AA pay Mr F £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct the AA as outlined below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
To put matters right, AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited:
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the repairs to Mr Fs roof. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman