DRN-3231344
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Experian Limited, saying they didnt give him sufficient 
assistance to create an account.
What happened
Mr H tried to open an online account with Experian to monitor his credit file, but he did not 
pass the verification checks. He asked Experian for help. He was worried there might be 
incorrect data on his credit file.
Experian explained that they didnt tell people why they didnt pass security, nor help them to 
pass it, as that would compromise the security checks. They gave Mr H the common 
reasons why people didnt pass verification, gave tips on how to make sure his information 
matched, deleted his previous application so he could try again, and sent a postal copy of 
Mr Hs credit file to his recorded address so he could check it was all correct.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Experian had dealt with things 
sufficiently.
Mr H didnt agree. Hed sent Experian a video of him applying and was unhappy they hadnt 
watched it. And he pointed out that hed been able to pass the security checks to get his 
statutory report. He felt Experian hadnt offered him alternative options. Mr H asked for his 
case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr H not to be granted the account he 
wanted.
However, Experian are required to have robust security processes in place, to keep peoples 
financial data safe and to prevent fraud. And I think its both reasonable and expected that if 
someone doesnt pass those security processes, then theyre not granted access to the 
persons sensitive financial information.
I appreciate that Mr H would have liked more help from Experian to pass the checks. From 
his perspective, hes the real Mr H and was asking for help in good faith. But there are many 
people who operate in bad faith and impersonate people to steal their data. If Experian told 
applicants why they failed security or helped them pass security, it would rather remove the 
point of the security process and would help fraudsters to access accounts theyre not 
supposed to. So it makes sense that Experian dont tell anyone why they didnt pass 
verification, nor coach them on how to get through the checks. I think its reasonable that 
Experian gave Mr H generalised advice and tips instead, and that they deleted his previous 
application so he could try again.
I also appreciate that Mr H wanted Experian to watch his video. Again, I understand that 
from his perspective he was asking in good faith. But Experian are regularly targeted by 
fraudsters who try to breach their security using methods like sending innocent-looking files 
with viruses in them. So again, it makes sense that they dont download files from unverified 
outside sources, not least from people whove explicitly not passed security. And even if they 
had watched it, it wouldnt have really made a difference to the outcome, as they still would 
not tell a customer why theyd not passed verification.
Mr H pointed out that he was able to pass the other security process to get his statutory 
report, and I understand why he raised this. But statutory reports have different verification 
checks which are somewhat easier to pass. And that makes sense. Statutory reports are 
sent directly to the recorded address of the individual. An online report can be accessed 
broadly anywhere, whereas a statutory report needs access to the individuals physical post 
for their address. Its a different process with different checks.
I should also explain that were not the regulator and are not here to tell businesses what 
processes to have. Experian are broadly able to choose their own security process. Its the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short) who regulate businesses and their processes. 
Im here to look at individual complaints, so Im not best placed to tell Experian to change the 
way they do things, nor to change their culture as Mr H suggested.
Mr H said he was offered no alternative option when he couldnt sign up online, but I can see 
that Experian sent him his statutory report by post for free. And that seems like a suitable 
alternative  his statutory report shows all the information on his credit file and meant he 
could check his credit file was correct, which is what Mr H originally wanted to do. He can 
ask for a new copy of his statutory report if he wants an updated version.
I have not found Experian to have done anything wrong here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman