DRN-1993194
 
The complaint
Miss N complains about what happened when she asked American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) ("AmEx") to help her to get back some money she'd spent on her 
card.
What happened
Miss N made three transactions on her AmEx card to pay a freelancer for work, each of a 
little over £100. She paid through a jobfinder website, which I wont name here. Miss N was 
unhappy with the work, and tried to challenge it. The freelancer promised her a refund, but 
that didnt materialise. The jobfinder website said it couldnt help. So she asked AmEx to 
help.
AmEx processed chargebacks for all three of these transactions. It said that two were 
successfully defended. The merchant Miss N paid had shown that the relevant terms and 
conditions were followed, and she was too late now under its terms to dispute the payments. 
AmEx found in Miss Ns favour on a third transaction, for £137.45. It now says this was a 
mistake, and it would take back the credit it had given her for this transaction too.
AmEx acknowledged a number of failings in how it had handled these chargebacks. It had 
previously given Miss N 5,000 reward points. But after reviewing her case, it thought it 
should pay £175 too. Miss N said she never got the offered points. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said AmEx had shown that 
all three of the contested transactions which Miss N had asked AmEx to refund, had been 
successfully defended by the merchant. The merchant had sent submissions on all three 
cases. But only the first two of these had been legible. A duplicate hadnt been 
acknowledged by AmEx. That meant AmEx had previously found in Miss Ns favour on the 
third chargeback. But it would now reverse that decision. 
Our investigator said that the position was the same on all three transactions. The merchant 
had shown that it was the responsibility of the client to lay out the requirements of the job, 
choose the freelancer and sign off the work. When a timesheet is approved and payment 
made, that counts as acceptance of the work. If a timesheet is disputed after this, it must be 
done within five days of payment. The merchant had shown that it had followed its own 
terms and conditions. Although Miss N had shown the freelancer agreed to make a refund, 
that didnt change things. Our investigator thought AmEx had reached the right decision. 
Our investigator thought that this process had been confusing, and agents provided Miss N 
with different information. The communications from AmEx were unclear. So our investigator 
said that AmEx couldve done better. She said AmEx had recognised this, and had offered 
£175 and 5,000 reward points. Our investigator thought that was a fair outcome in the 
circumstances. Miss N didnt agree. She said we hadnt found out why she hadnt received 5,000 reward 
points already or what the monetary value of those points was. She thought AmEx shouldnt 
be able to take back the credit it had given her for a chargeback it had wrongly resolved in 
her favour. This was AmExs mistake, not hers. She wanted to know why AmEx hadnt 
supplied call recordings. And she wanted to know if the jobfinder site had supplied all her 
online chat transcripts to AmEx. 
Our investigator explained that businesses often dont keep call recordings for over six 
months. She said AmEx wouldnt be able to offer a cash alternative to the points. Our 
investigator thought it was fair for AmEx to take back the credit it had given for the one 
successful chargeback, because that chargeback shouldnt have been successful. And she 
said AmEx had shared some evidence from the jobfinder website, including Miss N saying 
some work wasnt up to standard. Our investigator said she hadnt looked at what the 
jobfinder website had done, as that wasnt part of this complaint. 
Our investigator asked AmEx about the points it had offered Miss N, and it said that Miss N 
had two accounts. It had applied the points to one of her accounts on 13 June 2019.AmEx 
said that the organisation it partners with to provide these rewards can combine Miss Ns two 
accounts into one if she would like. 
Miss N had already asked for her case to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was 
then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When something goes wrong with a payment made on a credit card, there are two 
ways that the credit card company may be able to help. One is a chargeback, and the 
other is a s.75 request, which is named after the underpinning law, section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. I dont think a s.75 request was possible here, because of how 
Miss N paid the freelancer. So Ive looked at the chargeback requests AmEx made. 
AmEx asked the jobfinder website about the payments Miss N had made to it. It 
explained that it has a system for disputing payments. It also holds onto payments for 
a little while before releasing the money to the freelancer. But it said that Miss N hadnt 
used the system for disputing payments. Shed paid, and the money had been 
released to the freelancer. The jobfinder website said that under the terms of the 
contract Miss N had entered into, she was deemed to have accepted the work, and 
was too late to dispute this now. It showed AmEx those terms. 
I dont think AmEx made a mistake when it decided, having received this evidence, not 
to uphold two of Miss Ns three chargeback requests. 
AmEx did uphold a third chargeback request. It did that because the first batch of 
evidence it received was illegible, and it failed to properly record a second submission 
from the merchant. So it gave Miss N £137.45 back. It now says that was wrong, and 
its going to reverse that credit. I understand why AmEx would say it shouldnt have 
taken this money from the merchant, and that it should give it back. But I note that it 
only discovered this mistake about a year after Miss Ns original chargeback request. I 
dont think its fair for AmEx to take this money back from Miss N now. 
I wont ask AmEx not to take the money from Miss N. Instead, Ill bear in mind what 
Miss N has lost, when Im considering compensation in this case. Miss N said that the service she received from AmEx was poor. Like our investigator, I 
think thats right. I dont think that the explanations Miss N received from AmEx at the 
time really set out for her what was happening, or why her chargeback requests hadnt 
been upheld. And I think its also poor service to decide, about a year after giving Miss 
N a credit, to take it back again. For those reasons, I think that AmEx should pay Miss 
N a little more than its offered now. I think it should pay £287.45, to make up for 
whats gone wrong in this case.
AmEx has also granted Miss N 5,000 reward points. I understand that Miss N wouldve 
preferred a cash award, or a gift card, to these points, but I dont think that AmEx has 
to change this now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs N said that she was glad Id upheld her complaint. She didnt want the money paid to 
her card account with AmEx. AmEx replied to disagree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
AmEx said that the correct decision for all the chargebacks was for them to be declined, as 
Mrs N had failed to follow the terms and conditions that shed agreed to. AmEx said it 
understood I felt it was unfair for the money to be taken back, but it has contracts with the 
merchant, which is why chargebacks have to follow a set process. Thats why AmEx needed 
to adjust Mrs Ns account and the merchants account. The redress it had offered was to 
ensure there would be no material loss to Mrs N.
AmEx said chargebacks are an automated process with templated letters. Evidence is 
requested from both parties, reviewed by the disputes team and the relevant letters are then 
sent out. This is to try to ensure a fair approach is taken on each dispute. This means that if 
Mrs N raises three disputes at once, she will have three letters. The different disputes are 
identified by their numbers. 
AmEx sent us screenshots from the dispute system which show the documents that were 
received from Mrs N, in each case there was an outbound letter shortly afterwards, so she 
was given information in line with the dispute process. 
AmEx said it took nearly a year to note the error on the one successful chargeback because 
Mrs N consistently pursued complaints about the two disputes that were worked correctly. 
Shed assumed those were incorrect, and the one that went in her favour was correct. Thats 
why those two failed disputes were reviewed, and the successful one wasnt.
And finally, AmEx wanted me to explain how the redress amount was calculated.
I understand that AmEx may be obliged to give back the money from the one, successful, 
chargeback to the merchant. However, this was AmExs mistake. And I dont think it was Mrs 
Ns fault that this mistake was made, or her fault that it wasnt discovered for about a year. 
So I still think it is unfair to take this money back from her now. 
AmEx has assumed that the confusion in this case came about because Mrs N had three 
chargebacks, which each generated their own correspondence. But I think that much of the 
confusion came not because of this, but because AmEx didnt explain to Mrs N why two of 
her chargebacks had been refused. It has explained that to us, as part of this case, and I set 
that out briefly in my provisional decision. But at the time it issued template letters, which didnt tell her why two chargebacks were unsuccessful. Given the lack of explanation, and 
that two chargebacks had failed and one succeeded in identical circumstances, its perhaps 
unsurprising that Mrs N assumed something had gone wrong. 
Mrs Ns disputes were raised in November 2018. But even in June 2019, when AmEx finally 
responded to Mrs Ns complaint about the disputes, it still didnt explain to her exactly why 
two of her chargebacks had failed. So I do think AmEx couldve provided better information 
about her chargebacks to Mrs N. 
AmEx said its offer of £175 was intended to ensure Mrs N had no material loss from the 
reverse of her chargeback. I note this, but I dont think that it also provided adequate 
compensation for what I considered to be somewhat disappointing service. So I think that 
AmEx should pay £287.45 instead, which will ensure that Mrs N is no worse off from the 
chargeback credit being reversed, and will provide an additional element of compensation. 
I still think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So Ill now make 
the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must pay Miss 
N £287.45.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman