DRN-1479582
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way hes been dealt with following a fraudulent transaction on his 
account.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S received £140 into his account and paid it out to his bank account. He believed 
this was helping a friend but it proved the payment to him was fraudulent. As a result 
PayPal reversed the receipt sending the money back to where itd come from 
causing Mr S account to fall into a negative balance. Although Mr S is unhappy 
about this I dont think PayPal has done anything wrong as the terms and conditions 
of the user agreement allow it to remove funds from his account in circumstances like 
this. 
Mr S says PayPals subsequent debt collection has been aggressive. But the user 
agreement says if there isnt enough money in his account to cover a fund reversal 
like this, it may try to recover the amount through a debt collection agency. So, I dont 
think PayPal has done anything wrong by trying to recover the money by using debt 
collectors. And I dont think its tactics have been unduly aggressive as is suggested.
PayPal has also limited Mr S account. I understand Mr S frustration at this. But 
PayPal is entitled to limit an account and ask a customer to verify information before 
full account access is restored if it considers this is necessary. Thats in line with the 
terms of the user agreement and is reasonable. 
Its important that businesses like PayPal have processes and procedures in place to 
deal with possible and actual fraud. Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers, like Mr S, may be inconvenienced by them, but thats not to say 
that PayPal shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have followed them as it 
did here.
Mr S also complains about having to spend ages on the phone with PayPal while he 
was abroad and he wants compensating for this. I recognise Mr S strength of feeling 
and that he has found the process of engaging with PayPal extremely frustrating at 
times. But all consumers spend some time and experience some additional 
inconvenience in dealing with a problem, complaint and putting things right. We 
wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and, even though Mr S 
was abroad which increased his call costs, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably 
depart from this approach in this case.
Taking everything into account I think PayPal has acted fairly and in line with the 
terms of the user agreement. And I dont think I can reasonably require it to do anything more or differently, including refunding the £140 to Mr S account or paying 
him any compensation as he would like.
 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman