DRN-3145324
The complaint
Mr B complains that U Drive Cover Ltd mishandled his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr B committed speeding offences in October 2018 and December 2019.
In October 2020, Mr B went onto a comparison website and arranged motor insurance
through U Drive Cover, which acted as an intermediary between him and an insurance
company. After telephone contact, U Drive Cover noted that Mr B had one recorded
speeding offence.
Later, U Drive Cover saw Mr Bs driving licence summary showing two speeding offences. U
Drive Cover charged Mr B an additional premium, administration fees and commission 
about £160.00 in total.
Mr B complained to U Drive Cover. By a final response dated late January 2021, U Drive
Cover turned down the complaint. Mr B asked us to investigate.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
U Drive Cover had treated Mr B unfairly.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B  
and to U Drive Cover on 11 October  2021. I summarise my findings:
U Drive Cover hadnt shown us that it received no commission. And it hadnt shown 
us that it took any steps to agree a specific feeat 15%. So I wasnt satisfied that 
the 15% commission of £16.85 is in line with the terms of business.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from U Drive Cover, my provisional decision 
was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct U Drive Cover Ltd to pay Mr B:
1. a refund of £16.85; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of Mr Bs 
payment until the date of the refund. If U Drive Cover considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Mr B accepts the provisional decision.
U Drive Cover disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Its business is driven via the aggregators, and therefore Mr B would have had the 
opportunity to provide all material facts, prior to its offering terms online.
It provided a transcript of the sales call, which would show that Mr B had the 
opportunity to disclose relevant information.
Mr B failed to disclose pertinent information that materially affects the rating of his 
motor insurance policy. So we shouldnt class the complaint as partially upheld.
It has sent us the schedule from Mr Bs insurer quoting the additional premium for the 
non-disclosed speeding offence. From this, we can deduce the 15% commission 
charge of £16.85 was charged in lieu of commission and therefore in line with its 
terms of business agreement.
However the wording may not be as clear as it should be. It would therefore refund 
the £16.85 (without interest) as a goodwill gesture.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a statement of fact document. I find it likely that the statement of fact recorded
what Mr B had input online. The document recorded a question about motoring offences in
the last five years. It also recorded an answer of one speeding offence in February 2018.
From the call recordings, Im satisfied that U Drive Cover asked questions and Mr B gave
answers as follows:
Q: Ive got down here that you had a minor speeding conviction which is 3rd of
February 18 SP30 £60 fine and 3 points.
A: Yep
Q: Any other penalty points or endorsements in the last 5 years?
A: No
Those answers were incorrect. And Mr B shouldve known he had two speeding offences
and six penalty points on his licence. In my view he had enough opportunity to give correct
information. So Im not satisfied that Mr B took reasonable care to avoid making a
misrepresentation.
From what happened next, the insurer wouldve charged a higher premium if Mr B hadnt
made the misrepresentation. When the insurer found out there were two speeding offences,
it charged U Drive Cover an additional premium of £87.34 plus an administration fee of
£25.00  a total of £112.34.
U Drive Cover was acting as an intermediary between Mr B and the insurer. And Mr B had
provided incorrect information. So I dont hold U Drive Cover responsible for the insurers
additional charges of £112.34  or for passing them on to Mr B.U Drive Cover mis-recorded the insurers charges as £122.34 and charged Mr B commission
of 12% on that. U Drive Cover maintained that position in a submission to us in May 2021.
From what Mr B and U Drive Cover have each said, I infer that he had provided it with
payment details, and it was able to collect payment.
Later, U Drive Cover corrected the insurers charges to £112.34  but said it had charged
commission of 15% on that. It made a small refund of about £8.00. Later it said it would add
interest to that refund.
Taking into account that small refund, U Drive has charged and Mr B has paid as follows:
15% commission on £112.34 £16.85
Admin fee £30.00
Total £46.85
U Drive Covers terms of business included the following:
 Our Service Charges: We are remunerated by commission from your premium
and paid to us by your insurer. We may also charge you a fee (see below). Where we
receive no commission we will agree a specific fee with you before you agree to buy
at 15%. We may receive other income Because the commission rates paid by
insurers are variable and do not always reflect the level of work carried out by us, we
also make individual service charges over and above the charges made by your
insurers to cover the administration of your insurance policy. Such charges are non-
refundable and are as detailed below:
Making changes to a policy £30.00
I accept that the charge of £30.00 is in line with the terms of business.
In response to the provisional decision, U Drive Cover has sent us the policy schedule 
showing the additional premium of £87.34. It says that this shows that it didnt receive 
commission on that amount. 
But Ive looked at that schedule and the initial schedule showing the premium of about 
£1,700.00. Neither of those schedules contain any indication that they would show any 
commission if there was any commission. And U Drive Covers terms said that it was 
remunerated by commission from the insurer.
So U Drive Cover still hasnt shown us that it received no commission. And it hasnt shown 
us that it took any steps to agree a specific feeat 15%. So  unlike the investigator  Im 
not satisfied that the 15% commission of £16.85 is in line with the terms of business.
 Putting things right
Therefore I find it fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint in part and to direct U Drive 
Cover to refund that sum to Mr B. As hes been out of pocket for some time  I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct U Drive Cover to add interest at our usual rate. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U Drive Cover Ltd to pay Mr B:
1. a refund of £16.85; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of Mr Bs 
payment until the date of the refund. If U Drive Cover considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman