DRN-3425124
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wont pay for a second 
operation through his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out pet insurance underwritten by RSA in 2019. The policy paid £1500 towards a 
cruciate knee operation on his pet in September 2020. But the pet needed a similar 
operation on the other leg a year later. And even though RSA had doubled the cost of his 
insurance premium, it wouldnt cover the second operation. Mr C said the insurer was relying 
on small print to avoid paying the bill. He wouldnt have bought the pet insurance from RSA if 
hed known. And he wants the £1500 RSA owes him.
RSA explained that Mr C had reached the maximum benefit for cruciate rupture treatment. It 
said cruciate treatment for both legs was treated as one health issue. And itd declined 
Mr Cs claim fairly and in line with terms of the policy. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with RSAs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could see the pet insurance policy only provided cover until the 
maximum benefit for that illness or injury had been reached. And the limit had been reached 
by the first operation.
Mr C had bought the policy online. So our investigator looked at whether RSA had provided 
Mr C with enough information to make an informed decision about taking the policy. The 
insurance product information document listed the restrictions on cover provided. And it said 
RSA wouldnt pay separately for cruciate ligaments in each leg  both legs were treated as 
one health issue. So our investigator felt it was clear that the maximum Mr C could claim for 
any particular condition was £1500. And hed already received that for the first operation. 
Our investigator didnt think RSA had misinformed Mr C about the policy or treated him 
unfairly. So she wouldnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think RSA had stated clearly enough that it 
wouldnt cover a second operation. And hed never have renewed the policy if hed known. 
So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mr C. And I can appreciate 
that RSAs decision to decline his claim for further ligament treatment wouldve made the 
situation even more upsetting. But for me to say RSA has done something wrong, Id need to 
see that its decision failed to follow the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. Or, 
if RSA did follow the terms, that its decision remained unfair. But in this situation I dont think 
thats the case.
Mr C took out the basic level of cover for his pet insurance policy. It was intended to meet 
the demands and needs of someone looking for help paying vet bills for accidents and short-
term illnesses. But it wasnt intended to cover ongoing treatments lasting longer than 12 
months.
The renewal schedule sent to Mr C each year confirmed the policy covered vet fees up to 
£1500 for each accident or illness for up to 12 months. So after the vet fee limit had been 
reached in any policy year, or the treatment had lasted longer than 12 months, Mr C would 
no longer get help towards the vet bills. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr C received advise when he applied online for his pet 
insurance. So Id expect RSA to make the process and documentation provided clear 
enough for Mr C to make an informed decision when deciding on the insurance cover. 
Ive looked at the policy documentation sent to Mr C when he took out the pet insurance 
policy. And Ive looked at the information sent to Mr C at renewal in each of the following 
years.
The policy says the most it will pay is up to the vets fees limit of £1500 or 12 months from 
the first date of treatment, whichever happens first. And the policy continues if the same 
medical condition causes your pet to suffer from a number of injuries, illnesses or changes in 
your pets health or behaviour they will be considered to be one condition, we will not pay the 
vet fee limit for each injury, illness or change in your pets health or behaviour, we will pay it 
once for all the health issues linked to that medical condition.
The policy gives an example of multiple slipped discs and confirms RS&A wont pay the vet 
fee limit for each slipped disc  it will only pay once for all slipped discs. And that would 
apply regardless of when each slipped disc occurred.
Mr C wouldve also received the insurance product information document (IPID) when he 
took out the policy. And I can see it was sent to Mr C with each renewal letter. The IPID 
provides a summary of what is, and isnt, insured by the policy. 
It includes a section headed are there any restrictions on cover? This includes notice that 
the policy doesnt pay under a separate vet fees limit for cruciate ligaments in each leg  we 
will not pay for the vet fee limit for each leg, both legs are treated as one health issue.
So I think the documentation makes it clear that the policy wouldnt provide cover for any 
condition that needed a number of treatments beyond the maximum vet fees of £1500. And I 
think the documentation also makes it clear that cruciate ligament issues in both legs would 
be treated as one health issue  even though they were in different legs.
I realise Mr C feels the wording was buried in the small print and wasnt made clear enough 
when he took the policy out. And he says he wouldnt have renewed the policy if hed known 
thered be a problem with a second claim for cruciate issues. But although Mr C wouldnt 
have been aware his pet would suffer from cruciate problems in each leg I cant say the 
restriction wasnt made to clear. Its stated under are there any restrictions on cover? on 
page one of the two-page IPID sent to Mr C each year. 
Based on what Ive seen I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest the restriction 
wouldve stopped Mr C taking out the policy in 2019 or renewing it each year. I think its likely 
Mr C wouldve considered the various restrictions on cover listed in the documentation along 
with other factors including the price and overall cap on vets fees before making his 
decision.I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But Im satisfied RS&A has properly 
considered Mr Cs claim. Its acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the pet 
insurance policy in turning down the claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman