DRN-2533393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. handled their insurance claim and that they havent received a 
full refund of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 3 February 2020, Mr and Mrs C took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. The 
policy was provided by Mapfre. This cover started on 7 February 2020 and ran until 6 
February 2021. Mr and Mrs C paid £105.99 for this policy.
As a result of the coronavirus outbreak, Mr and Mrs C had to cancel their travel plans. They 
attempted to contact Mapfre in order to start the process of making a claim, but said they 
were unable to get through on the phone and requests they made online at the beginning of 
June 2020 werent answered. When Mapfre did make contact with them on 30 July 2020, 
Mr and Mrs C advised that they no longer needed to claim as they had resolved the matter 
with the relevant holiday companies. But they wanted a refund of the policy.
Mapfre offered a refund of £55.46. It said this was a pro-rata refund, taking into account the 
period of time still left on the policy from 30 July 2020 to 6 February 2021. Mr and Mrs C 
were unhappy with this offer. They said that they should receive a full refund as they didnt 
get the service they had paid for and that they had to spend time speaking to their travel 
providers in order to recover the money they paid for their holidays. So, they brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
found that neither the relevant regulators rules nor the policy terms and conditions entitled 
Mr and Mrs C to a premium refund. But she did think it was reasonable for Mapfre to provide 
a pro-rata refund as it was no longer on risk for any holidays from the point they requested a 
refund. She noted that there did appear to be delays in Mapfre responding to Mr and Mrs C 
but didnt think that this caused any greater impact on them as it would still have been 
Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility to contact their travel providers to obtain details about any 
refunds owed to them in order to make a claim. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view. They said they didnt cancel the policy 
but wanted a refund because they didnt receive the service they expected. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and customer service
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us about delays they encountered in trying to contact Mapfre when 
they wanted to make a claim for their cancelled holiday. Theyve said they couldnt get 
through by phone and enquiries made online took a long time to be answered. Ive seen 
copies of emails between the parties and it does appear it took Mapfre some time to respond 
to Mr and Mrs Cs online enquiry. I can understand how such delays would have been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs C at a time when they were trying to utilise their policy cover to 
recoup their holiday costs, so I appreciate their view point here.
 
When considering such complaints, I need to think about what has happened as a result of 
any delay and if this impacted the claim Mr and Mrs C were trying to make. Mr and Mrs C 
have said that, because they couldnt get hold of Mapfre to make their claim, they made the 
decision to contact their travel providers directly to see if they could obtain any refunds on 
the trip. Fortunately, they were able to recover all of their costs as a result. But this took time 
for Mr and Mrs C to do and they feel this should have been the role of Mapfre, not them.
Ive thought about this point very carefully. When making a claim under a travel insurance 
policy, it is for the policy holder to demonstrate they have a valid claim. Under the policy 
which Mr and Mrs C took out, the cancellation section provides cover for Travel and 
accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay under a contract and 
which you cannot get back. 
In order for Mr and Mrs C to demonstrate if they had a valid claim, they would have needed 
to show they couldnt obtain a refund of their holiday costs from the relevant providers. This 
means that, even if Mr and Mrs C had been able to contact Mapfre earlier than they did, they 
would still have needed to contact the travel providers in order to obtain this information. 
So, whilst I can see that there was a delay in Mapfre responding to Mr and Mrs Cs 
messages, Im not persuaded that this led to them having to do more than would be 
expected in order to demonstrate if they had a valid claim.
 
When Mr and Mrs C were contacted by Mapfre, they requested a refund of the policy 
premium. Mr and Mrs C have told us they didnt ask to cancel their policy  theyve said they 
still expected the policy to remain in force. When a request for a refund of premium is made 
to an insurer, I think it would generally be considered that the policy holder no longer wishes 
to make use of the cover provided and therefore the policy is to be cancelled. 
I also bear in mind that Mapfre was dealing with an unprecedented situation. Covid-19 had a 
significant impact on the travel insurance industry given the number of customers whose 
travel plans were impacted by the disruption to travel. And so, I dont think its unreasonable 
that this had some impact on their normal levels of service. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to 
refund the cost of the premiums and yet also continue to provide Mr and Mrs C cover under 
the policy in the circumstances of this case. The offer of a pro-rata refund
Mapfre offered to cancel the policy and provide a pro-rata refund as at 30 July 2020  the 
date Mr and Mrs C requested the refund. Ive therefore considered whether I think that the 
offer to cancel the policy and provide a pro-rata refund is fair and reasonable.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). But these rules refer to the 
right to cancel within 14 days of taking out the policy  which didnt happen in this case. 
Even if cancellation had been made within that time period, as Mapfre had been providing 
cover for the cancellation of any trips from the start date of the cover, Mr and Mrs C wouldnt 
have been entitled to a full refund of the premium.
 
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions provided to Mr and Mrs C and their 
cancellation rights under this contract of insurance. These also refer to only providing 
refunds if the request to cancel is made within 14 days of buying the policy.
 
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs C purchased, 
they arent entitled to any refund of the premium. But Mapfre did offer to cancel the policy 
and issue a pro-rata refund of the premium.  
I do recognise why the future travel plans which Mr and Mrs C might have had during the 
remainder of the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance 
policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. 
So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Mapfre to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Cs contract with Mapfre to be 
performed  cover under the policy started on 7 February 2020. Mr and Mrs C were insured 
from that date for travelling on any number of trips of up to 90 days duration which they may 
have taken until the request for the refund on 30 July 2020. Because of the way annual 
multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips 
they took (unless Mr and Mrs C subsequently made a claim under the policy). There may 
have been many trips within this time period or there may have been none, but Mapfre was 
covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force. 
The price set by Mapfre covered Mr and Mrs C for the cancellation of any holidays which 
they had booked and were due to take from 7 February 2020 until they asked for a refund of 
the policy. So, Mr and Mrs C would have been covered if they had to cancel any number of 
holidays for any of the listed reasons detailed in the policy, such as for ill health.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Mapfre to retain 
any premiums relating to the risk it covered. 
However, I think it is important to recognise that Mapfre wouldnt bear any risk under this 
insurance policy for Mr and Mrs Cs upcoming holidays as these had already been cancelled 
and refunds received  so no claim has been made. Mapfre was therefore no longer carrying the risk of those holidays being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as those 
holidays was no longer going ahead, Mapfre was also no longer carrying the risk of any 
claim being made while Mr and Mrs C were travelling abroad.
And after cancelling the policy Mapfre wouldnt be providing cancellation cover for any other 
holidays which Mr and Mrs C may have had booked, of for any travelling that Mr and Mrs C 
may have done, either abroad or in the UK.
Mapfre doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and post-
departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period of 
cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. 
Based on the explanations that Mapfre has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the incidence 
of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that 
Mapfre hasnt treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. 
The refund offered has been calculated based on the unused period of standard travel 
insurance cover, following the premium refund request. This equates to the premiums 
equivalent to 191 unused days of cover from the date Mr and Mrs C requested the refund. 
This reflects the fact that Mapfre wouldnt be covering any further risk under the policy from 
the date the policy would have been cancelled.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im persuaded that Mapfres offer of 
settlement is fair and reasonable. So, I dont find that Mapfre has to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman