DRN-2135989
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Lloyds Bank PLCs handling of his date of birth in relation to his 
current account.
What happened
Mr M was having difficulty accessing his current account via the mobile banking app. When 
he called Lloyds to find out why, they told him it was because his date of birth on the account 
was wrong - the account showed his wifes date of birth instead of his. Lloyds corrected the 
information while Mr M was on the phone.
Mr M complained to Lloyds about the account showing his wifes date of birth. He said he 
thought the error might have affected his credit file and impacted his ability to get a business 
account or joint account with Lloyds and other banks. When Lloyds replied to Mr M they 
apologised for the fact that Mr Ms account was showing his wifes date of birth. They paid 
him £250 compensation and apologised for the inconvenience. But, they said, this wouldnt 
have affected Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M was unhappy with Lloyds response. He wanted to know exactly what had happened 
that had led to his account showing the wrong date of birth. He said it shouldnt be possible 
to open an account with the wrong date of birth and he also thought Lloyds shouldnt have 
corrected his date of birth over the phone without any additional identification or checks. 
Mr M added that his credit rating had dropped and this had prevented him from opening a 
business account and ultimately from being able to apply for a bounce back loan. Mr M 
thought this was due to Lloyds having input his date of birth incorrectly. 
Lloyds investigated the matter further when Mr M brought his complaint to us. They said 
Mr M had input the incorrect date of birth himself when applying for his account online. They 
said the extent of security checks performed is risk-based and they dont always check every 
piece of information. And they said they thought Mr Ms applications for other accounts at 
Lloyds hadnt gone through due to systems issues.
Our investigator passed this information on to Mr M. She said she thought Lloyds had acted 
fairly. She didnt think the date of birth error had affected Mr Ms ability to open other 
accounts. Our investigator concluded that Lloyds didnt cause the error with Mr Ms date of 
birth, and that they sorted the problem as soon as they were aware of it. She thought the 
compensation Lloyds had paid Mr M was fair to cover any inconvenience Mr M had suffered.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said he was concerned that such a large bank 
could allow someone to open an account without checking personal details. He saw this as a 
failure of their duty to check basic security data to prevent fraud. Mr M asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint - Ill explain why.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the wrong date of birth was input onto the 
online application for Mr Ms account. I know Mr Ms unhappy that Lloyds didnt realise this at 
the time  and he says it should have been part of their security and fraud checks. But 
theres no requirement for Lloyds to check all the details on an application. While the money 
laundering regulations do require Lloyds to carry out some checks, they allow Lloyds to 
choose exactly what checks they make, based on a risk assessment of each customer. 
Lloyds have explained that Mr Ms application would have been considered relatively low risk 
which meant that if the other details on the application were correct, the incorrect date of 
birth wouldnt raise a concern. I cant say Lloyds should have done more than this when 
approving Mr Ms application. And I cant say its Lloyds fault that the account was set up 
with the wrong date of birth. 
I appreciate Mr Ms said that the incorrect date of birth has caused him trouble  he said it 
meant he couldnt access his online banking on his mobile app, and he said he thinks its 
affected his ability to open other accounts. I havent seen any evidence that the incorrect 
date of birth impacted Mr Ms credit file, or that it affected his ability to open other accounts 
in any other way. But, as Ive explained, Im satisfied that the incorrect date of birth wasnt 
Lloyds fault  so even if the incorrect date of birth did impact Mr Ms credit file, I wouldnt be 
able to ask Lloyds to compensate Mr M for this. 
Lloyds corrected the date of birth as soon as they realised it was wrong. I know Mr Ms also 
expressed concern that Lloyds changed his date of birth over the phone. Ive not heard that 
phone conversation, but Lloyds have confirmed that they asked Mr M a number of security 
questions at the beginning to ensure they were speaking with the account holder. Im 
satisfied they checked they were speaking to Mr M before they changed the details on his 
account. I cant say they needed to do any more than that. 
To conclude, Im satisfied Lloyds werent to blame for Mr Ms account being set up with the 
wrong date of birth and that they corrected the error as soon as they were aware of it.  Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint and wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject 
my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman