DRN-2899439
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as V has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Miss B, a director of V, has brought the complaint on Vs behalf.
What happened
V held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on its policy in       
March 2020 after being impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
RSA said Vs claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said that the extension for disease 
didnt provide cover because Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy; and 
the extension for public emergency didnt provide cover because V hadnt closed due to an 
emergency in the vicinity of its premises. 
V was unhappy with RSAs response and complained to our service. 
While we were looking into things, RSA wrote to V to say that the High Court had considered 
the public emergency wording in its policy as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
test case and found that it provided narrow localised cover. RSA said this part of the 
judgment wasnt being appealed, so RSA maintained that they had made the correct 
decision in turning down Vs claim. 
V sent a further complaint to RSA. It provided extracts from the Supreme Court judgment to 
demonstrate why its claim should be paid. V also sent evidence to show there were cases of 
Covid-19 in the vicinity of its premises, as well as explaining why the grammatical construct 
of the extension for public emergency should be interpreted to provide cover for the 
circumstances of its claim. 
Our investigator looked into Vs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
the extension for disease provided cover, as Covid-19 wasnt a specified disease within the 
policy. And he didnt think V had closed due to an emergency in the vicinity of its premises. 
So he thought RSA had turned down Vs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
V disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided a detailed response as to 
why it thought it had been required to close due to an emergency which endangered life in 
the vicinity of its premises. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
V has made some very detailed points. Id like to reassure it that I have considered all of the 
points its made. However, I dont intend to address each one and will instead focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Vs business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Vs claim. I will comment on each of the extensions referred to by RSA 
in turn.
Disease
The relevant part of this extension provides cover for business interruption or interference 
due to a specified list of diseases. Covid-19 isnt included in the list of diseases, so I dont 
think this extension provides cover for Vs claim even if someone at Vs premises did have 
Covid-19. 
When reaching this finding, Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something RSA might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Vs policy sets out a specified list of illnesses
which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it
provides cover for illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. The
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific illnesses.
There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including SARS. Therefore, I 
dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all disease.
Public Emergency
This extension provides cover for interruption or interference of Vs business due to:
The actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents 
or hinders the use of or access to the Premises.
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. V has provided 
extracts from the Supreme Court judgment. But the parts it has provided relate to the 
consideration of a different policy term. I think the High Court judgment is more relevant 
to Vs complaint as this court considered the extension in Vs policy and that part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed. 
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity
of the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the 
government action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be 
said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also 
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in 
that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the 
country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the government...
I appreciate that V strongly disagrees with the grammatical interpretation of this, but I 
see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to 
provide cover in the event of an emergency in Vs local area. And while there may well 
have been a number of cases of Covid-19 within the vicinity of Vs premises, I dont 
think the Governments response to the national pandemic was due to an emergency in 
the vicinity of V as opposed to the country as a whole. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Miss B, but having considered things 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Vs claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman