DRN-3352662
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds service, handling, and 
settlement of her storm damage claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A said a storm had occurred and contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Roof tiles had 
become dislodged and this had caused internal damage to a ceiling that had warped through 
rain flooding in. Mrs A said she paid £320 for roof repairs and the attic insulation had been 
destroyed. Mrs A said she had the walls repainted as Lloyds had given her the indication 
that it wasnt going to pay the claim. Mrs A said she removed the carpet that was sodden, 
and some towels were damaged in the clean up. Also, some bathroom tiles had come loose 
due to the water damage suffered.
Lloyds didnt accept the roof claim. It said the definition of storm within the policy hadnt been 
met. It said the weather records didnt show a storm had occurred. But it did say it would 
send out an expert to review the damage to both the inside and outside of the property. 
There was some confusion with appointments cancelled and then rearranged for the expert 
B.  After visiting the property B reported back to Lloyds. Lloyds said to Mrs A the ceiling 
wasnt warped, there wasnt any damp and there was no sign of any damaged carpet, 
insulation, or towels. It said there were no invoices or evidence of work paid for to repair 
damage. But it did accept the damage to the bathroom tiles and after application of the £150 
policy excess said it would pay £14 towards the re-grout required for the tiles. After initially 
offering £200 towards claim damage as Lloyds decided to retract this offer as it didnt see 
any other damage. Instead it offered the £200 as compensation for incorrect information and 
the service provided. Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Lloyds had acted reasonably when it 
declined the claim. There was no storm conditions and no evidence of any damaged items 
beyond what Lloyds had agreed to pay for. Our investigator accepted that the expert report 
provided by B on behalf of Lloyds were the best details presented and there wasnt anything 
from Mrs A to outweigh this.  
Mrs A didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at storm damage cases this service asks three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Lloyds said from the outset that the weather records it had didnt show a storm occurred 
around the time Mrs A made her claim. It also referred to the policy wording which stated:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, and/or
hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.
I accept that based on the policy definition and the lack of storm conditions the answer to 
question one above is no. So, I think Lloyds acted reasonably when it declined to deal with 
the damage to the roof. B did say the roof work appeared to be maintenance related only. B 
also said a builder was going back to the property to replace the skylight.
B also reviewed the internal claim. Mrs A said the expert from B refused to look at damaged 
items. B said it wasnt shown any damaged items. But B did accept there was an issue with 
the grouting around the bathroom tiles and accepted this part of the claim. It offered Mrs A 
£14 as a claim settlement after the policy excess of £150 had been deducted. B said the 
bathroom ceiling wasnt warped and there wasnt any damp. Mrs A said she dried everything 
out and had repair work done before the visit of B, but didnt have any paperwork to confirm 
this. In relation to the carpet being removed Lloyds said there were no grippers down in the 
room where the carpet was meant to have been. Based on the evidence I think Lloyds has 
acted reasonably in relation to the internal claim offer.
Its clear there were communication issues around this claim. After initially offering £200 for 
the internal items once it declined these Lloyds changed this to a compensation offer for the 
incorrect information and service it provided. I think thats fair in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman