DRN-1542228
The complaint
Mr K complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont pay for repairs to the radiator on 
his car under the Parts and Garage cover of his roadside assistance policy.
Another company was involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it for 
simplicity Ill just refer to them.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr K called Acromas as the fan on his car kept running when the engine 
had been turned off. The patrolman diagnosed the problem as the coolant level being too 
low. Mr K says the patrolman filled the coolant reservoir with tap water, couldnt find the leak, 
and said the low level was probably due to evaporation. Mr K says the patrolman told him if 
the level drops significant over a short period of time, then hed be covered under the Parts 
and Garage cover of his policy. 
Mr K continued to monitor the coolant levels, but then in June 2019 he noticed the coolant 
dropped significantly, saw patches of coolant on the floor, and made a claim on his policy.
When he called up to do this, Acromas said he wouldnt be covered under the terms of his 
policy, so Mr K complained. Acromas said theyd told him in November 2017 he needed to 
get the issue checked at a garage, and when Mr K said he hadnt received this report, 
Acromas sent him the report of that attendance  with Mr Ks signature on it.
Unhappy with this Mr K asked us to look into things. When speaking to us he explained the 
patrolman shouldnt have told him to use water, because this evaporates and can cause 
further issues with the radiator. He also said if hed claimed in 2017 theyd have met his 
claim, but because of this he feels Acromas are unfairly turning down his claim now even 
though there clearly are leaks. Mr K also let us know hed got his car serviced each year and 
they didnt find any problems with the radiator.
Our investigator considered all of these points, but ultimately felt Acromas had acted fairly in 
turning down Mr Ks claim. The reasons for this were, amongst other things, it didnt meet 
the terms of a breakdown under the policy and the report told him to get his car checked out 
at a garage.
Mr K didnt accept this. In summary he said:
Part of his complaint was that water was used to top up his coolant tank in 2017, and 
this could have led to the leak later on in 2019. 
Its true he didnt breakdown, but in order for a breakdown to have occurred hed 
have needed to ignore the advice of the patrolman to keep topping up his engine. 
This would have caused significantly more damage so it seems counter intuitive to 
say this.
He accepts the report told him to take his car to a garage to get it checked over, but 
the patrolman told him just to keep monitoring and if it drops significantly over a short 
period of time, then take it to a garage. So, this strongly suggests there was no need 
to take it to a garage at the time the patrolman attended. Mr K feels this has had a 
significant impact on his complaint.
And in the promotional documents he sent us it clearly says faulty radiators are 
covered, and had the radiator been leaking in 2017 they would have replaced it. So, 
they should replace it now.
Because Mr K didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think itll help to explain that in complaints such as this its important to look closely at what 
the policy terms cover. And, if they dont provide cover for the issue Mr K is complaining 
about, then I cant fairly order Acromas to meet his claim. And, having considered all the 
information Ive been provided, I think Acromas have turned down Mr Ks claim fairly.
Mr K has made a claim under the Parts and Garage cover of his policy  also known as 
Breakdown Repair Cover. So, Ive had a look at what the policy wording says. 
The definition of a breakdown is a sudden or unexpected event, where
Its the result of a mechanical failure
Which Acromas have attended to
Has prevented the car from carrying on its journey
Requires repair or replacement of the relevant parts to let the journey continue
Ive thought about Mr Ks comments that hed have been covered in November 2017 for the 
faulty  but I dont agree. I say that because the report shows the car wasnt prevented from 
carrying on its journey, and no replacement or repair was required of a part  just topping up 
the coolant. So, I dont think Acromas would have been responsible for replacing his radiator 
at this point.
And under those terms I also cant agree Acromas should be held responsible for Mr Ks 
June 2019 claim  as his car didnt suffer a sudden or unexpected event or meet most of the 
remaining terms.
Mr K has placed a lot of emphasis on water being used to top up his coolant tank. I dont 
doubt what Mr K has said here, but its not for me to say what liquid Acromas should use 
when attending cars. In addition, Ive not been provided any evidence to demonstrate this is 
the cause of the issues Mr K experienced in June 2019.
Ive noted Mr Ks comments about our investigator saying he hadnt broken down  and this 
being counter intuitive because in order to have a breakdown hed have had to cause more 
damage to his car. But, the policy Mr K bought isnt designed to cover every eventuality, and 
for the reasons Ive already explained the claim in June 2019 isnt covered by the policy 
terms.
Mr K also says the patrolman told him to keep monitoring it  and he placed more emphasis 
on that so didnt take it to a garage. Its clear Mr Ks concerns here are that because he 
didnt do this, then his claim now isnt being met. But, I dont think thats the case  as Ive 
explained above, I dont think Mr Ks claim would have been met for either instance given it 
didnt meet the relevant terms.For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Acromas have acted fairly in turning 
down Mr Ks claim.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman