DRN-2703940
The complaint
Mr A complains that Black Horse Limited mishandled the rejection of a car, hed acquired 
under a hire purchase agreement, which had been of unsatisfactory quality.
  
What happened
In July 2018, Mr A entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car. As part 
of the agreement to take the new car, Mr A part-exchanged his current car. However, the 
price paid by the dealership didnt clear the outstanding balance on the credit agreement 
for that car, leaving Mr A with £8,927 in negative equity to clear.
Mr A paid £3,000 to the dealership, which was put towards clearing the negative equity. 
This left £5,927 outstanding from the original credit agreement to clear.
The manufacturer paid the dealership a Finance Dealership Allowance of £2,669, to 
put towards the cost of Mr As new car.
The hire purchase agreement was drawn up. It showed the price of the goods as the cost 
of the car and the remaining outstanding negative equity combined, which was £60,477. It 
then recorded that there had been a deposit of £2,669, which had reduced the amount of 
credit to £57,808. The agreement set out the total hire purchase charges that would be 
added to credit amount, the cost of the monthly instalments Mr A was to pay, and the final 
lump sum instalment Mr A would need to pay at the end of the agreement, should he wish 
to keep the car. This lump sum was equal to the guaranteed future value of the car.
Mr A says that he found the car was faulty within a short time of acquiring it. He says 
he experienced intermittent problems with the cars engine, software and lights. The 
car was inspected and repaired by the dealership.
In July 2019, Mr A remained unhappy about the quality of the car and complained to 
Black Horse, who offered him £150 as compensation for dealing with a faulty car. Mr A 
disagreed with the amount of compensation offered by Black Horse and complained to 
this service. 
During our investigation Mr A supplied further evidence to Black Horse that the car 
continued to have faults, in particular with its infotainment system. In December 2019, 
Black Horse agreed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that Mr A was entitled 
to reject it and cancel the credit agreement. As Mr A had driven 27,000 miles, since hed 
acquired the car, Black Horse said that it was fair that he paid something towards the 
usage.
Black Horse offered the following redress to Mr A:
£1,230 as a part refund of his direct debits plus interest
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Reimbursement of around 25% of the payments hed made under the 
agreement to reflect the loss of enjoyment of using car that had faults.
Total redress = £4,887.
However, Black Horse said that there remained negative equity to clear of £5,927, arising 
from the other agreement. So, to end this hire purchase agreement, Black Horse said that 
it would put the redress towards clearing that outstanding amount and Mr A would need to 
pay the remaining £1,039 to clear the negative equity from the first credit agreement.
Mr A was unhappy at the charges imposed by Black Horse and asked our investigator 
to look at this part of his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Mr As complaint should be upheld and said that Black 
Horse had acted unfairly when calculating the amount to be reimbursed to Mr A. He said 
that it would be fair for Black Horse to have also paid Mr A the £2,669 that had been put 
toward the car, even though this hadnt been a sum paid by him.
However, our investigator said he felt the refund, compensation and reimbursement for 
loss of enjoyment had been fairly applied. But Black Horse should have also taken into 
account the amount that had been paid towards the new agreement by the manufacturer 
and Mr A, which was a total of £5,669. This amount had been set against the full amount 
owing under the agreement, which covered both the car and the negative equity.
Looking at the amount Mr A had paid towards this agreement, our investigator said this 
amounted, one way or another, to £11,596 but the negative equity had actually been 
£8,927. So, it would be fair for him to receive back the £2,669.
Mr A agreed with our investigators view, but Black Horse disagreed. It said that the 
manufacturers contribution was widely accepted as not being a deposit that was 
returnable to a consumer, as they had not paid it. This allowance had been paid not by 
the dealership but by the manufacturer, as an incentive to new customers to reduce the 
amount of credit needed to purchase a new car. The purpose of the allowance wasnt to 
clear a customers outstanding debt.
Black Horse said that, if there hadnt been any negative equity owing by Mr A, and the 
agreement had been cancelled in the same circumstances, then this allowance wouldnt 
be considered as something that should be reimbursed to Mr A.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
While I appreciated the Financial and Leasing Associations non-binding guidance on 
negative equity was issued after this hire purchase agreement had been set up, I thought 
it was helpful when looking at whether this credit agreement was fair in relation to Mr A 
paying for the car and clearing the negative equity. This guidance set out that where there 
was a hire purchase agreement for a car, together with negative equity on a previous 
agreement, then the hire purchase element should be distinct from the refinancing of the 
negative equity. This was because the hire purchase had to be linked to the hire of the 
vehicle in question, and not the refinancing of an existing debt. There should be two 
separate agreements for each of the elements. Care should also be taken to explain to 
the consumer the nature of the agreements and, if it wasnt, then there may be an impact 
in its enforceability.
Here, the outstanding negative equity had been added to the cost of the car, so there 
werent two separate agreements for each of the sums. As the negative equity element wasnt distinct from the cost of the car, I thought it was confusing for Mr A as to what he 
was paying off with each of his monthly instalments. For instance, do all of the payments 
go to clearing the cost of the car first and then later to clear the negative equity or vice 
versa. The terms of the agreement didnt set out how they payments were to be attributed 
to the two separate elements. So, as these amounts had been combined, I thought it 
would be fair to treat each of Mr As monthly instalments as going towards clearing both 
the cost of the car and the negative equity.
As it wasnt disputed that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, I wasnt going to look at 
that, so the issue for me was whether Black Horse had acted fairly in the way it had 
handled the settlement of Mr As account.
It also wasnt disputed that, when Mr A had part-exchanged his first car for the new one, 
there had been an outstanding balance owed by Mr A, as the amount the dealership paid 
for the car wasnt sufficient to settle the credit agreement. This negative equity had been 
settled by Black Horse as part of the agreement for the new car. I also thought it was fair 
to say Mr A knew that there was an outstanding amount on his original agreement
Id seen that the full amount of the negative equity was £8,927. Mr A had made a payment of
£3,000 to the dealership, which Black Horse said had been paid to reduce this negative 
equity. Id seen that this amount wasnt included in either the hire purchase agreement, 
nor in the new cars invoice. So, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr A understood 
this sum wasnt going towards the purchase cost of the new car. I thought it was fair that 
Black Horse had used that sum towards the settling of Mr As previous credit agreement. 
And I wasnt going to ask Black Horse to reimburse Mr A this amount.
Looking at the £2,669 Finance Dealership Allowance, Id seen this was a separate 
incentive paid by the manufacturer towards a credit agreement taken out for a new car. I 
accepted this amount wasnt paid by Mr A and, therefore, he wouldnt suffer a financial 
detriment if this amount wasnt awarded to him.
I disagreed with the approach taken by our investigator that this amount should have 
counted towards the negative equity, as that wasnt its purpose. I agreed with Black 
Horse that, had this credit agreement not had the element of negative equity, then it 
would be a very unusual requirement for the business to reimburse a manufacturers 
contribution to a consumer if the agreement was later cancelled and rewound. So, I 
wasnt going to ask Black Horse to reimburse this amount.
However, as Id set out above, I didnt think this hire purchase agreement set out 
clearly that there were two elements being paid by Mr A, and this wasnt fair. I thought 
it would be reasonable to consider that Mr A had been paying towards the negative 
equity, as well as the car, so I didnt think Black Horse should have treated the full 
amount of the negative equity as being outstanding when the agreement was 
cancelled. 
Mr A had paid around 21 months, out of a total of 48 due instalments, at the point the 
agreement was cancelled. As I thought it was fair to assume that the negative equity 
did not form any part of the guaranteed future value of the car, I also thought it was fair 
to say that the negative equity would have been cleared in full before the final optional 
payment fell due in the 49th month.
Taking into account the amount that was credited back to Mr A by Black Horse as it was  
accepted he was entitled to reject the faulty car, I thought, in the circumstances, it would 
now be fair to treat Mr A as though he had cleared one third of the amount of the negative 
equity. I had reduced the number of months paid (21/48) because Black Horse hadnt considered the negative equity element of the payments when it calculated what would be 
a fair reimbursement to Mr A. And I thought it would be fair to now add that element into 
the calculation. Adjusting the reimbursement provided by Black Horse and taking the 
number of months Mr A had paid under the agreement, I thought it was fair to find that Mr 
A owed £3,915, and not £5,927 for the negative equity, so there were two thirds of the 
negative equity remaining.
Black Horse offered a settlement to Mr A that took account of his spoiled enjoyment of the 
car, by reimbursing him 25% of his instalments, a refund of around a further two months 
instalments and £500 compensation. Looking at the use Mr A has had of the car, I agreed 
that a full refund of all of his instalments wouldnt be reasonable. I thought the approach 
taken by Black Horse, in these circumstances, was fair though this should have been 25% 
of the portion of his monthly instalment that went to paying the cost of the car.
I also thought that it was fair to require Mr A to clear the negative equity from the original 
agreement. Though as stated above, I thought Black Horses calculation as to what that 
amount was hadnt been fair. I thought only £3,915 should have been considered as 
outstanding, and to put things right, anything paid by Mr A over this amount should now 
be reimbursed to him.
So, I intended to uphold Mr As complaint. I understood Mr A had paid Black Horse the 
requested £1,039 to close the account meaning that he had now in effect paid £5,927 
to clear the negative equity. And I was therefore intending to ask Black Horse to 
reimburse him £2,012 which was the amount he had overpaid, as the negative equity 
figure should have been treated as £3,915 at the point when the agreement was 
cancelled. I thought it would also be fair for this amount to be paid with interest from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement
Mr A says that although he had hoped for a slightly different outcome, he thinks the 
decision is fair for the reasons Ive given. Black Horse says that the decision is unfair as 
it only deducted a cost for Mr A using the car from the reimbursement it made of his 
monthly instalments. This deduction equated to 45p per mile and the money retained 
was therefore only to cover use and nothing else.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at my provisional decision and I havent changed my mind. I still think 
the way the hire purchase agreement failed to make clear how Mr A was clearing the 
negative equity element was unfair. I think its reasonable to consider that each of the 
monthly payments made by Mr A went towards both the negative equity and the cost of the 
car. I also think its fair to assume Mr A had that expectation too.
Ive seen that Mr A made use of the car before it was agreed he could hand it back due to its 
inherent fault. And I think Black Horse has acted fairly in making a deduction for that use. It 
says that it charged him 45p per mile which has worked out as the equivalent of 75% of each 
of his monthly instalments. However, when using the 45p per mile charge I dont think that 
Black Horse took into account that a proportion of each of the monthly instalments was 
paying off the negative equity. So, I cant say Black Horse looked at all the circumstances 
when deciding whether or not that amount to charge for use was fair.  
I think it would have been fairer if, rather than applying 45p per mile, Black Horse had used a 
percentage of the monthly instalment to cover use. This would have allowed it to take into account both that it had recognised Mr A had suffered a loss of enjoyment using the car and 
also that not all of the monthly instalment was being paid towards its cost. 
So, I still think its fair and reasonable to treat Mr A as though he had paid off one third of the 
negative equity. This takes into account the number of payments he had made before the 
agreement was ended and that there should be a deduction for usage hed made of the car.
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr As complaint
Putting things right
Im asking Black Horse Limited to reimburse Mr A £2,012 together with interest at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
 
My final decision
As set out above, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Im asking Black Horse Limited to 
reimburse Mr A £2,012 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman