DRN-3320477
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly increased her pet 
insurance premiums.
Reference to HDI includes its agents who administer the policy on its behalf.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 February 2022. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
What happened
Mrs L took out a lifetime policy for her pet in 2017 for an annual premium of around £336. 
The premium increased over the next two years and was around £428 at renewal in 2019. 
During that policy year Mrs L claimed for some vets treatment for her dog. At the following 
renewal, in 2020, Mrs Ls premium had increased to around £835. She complained. Her 
premium increased again in 2021 to around £1,628 and she complained about the scale of 
that increase again.
The broker responsible for the sale of the policy  which Ill refer to as P  also administers 
it. P answered the complaint on behalf of both itself and HDI. P acknowledged that it could 
have given Mrs L more information when she bought the policy. So it offered her £150 
compensation. But it said HDIs price rise was fair.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He considered all 
of Mrs Ls complaint against HDI. He said that while he felt it had calculated her premiums 
fairly it could have done more to let Mrs L know, at the point of sale, that her premiums could 
be subject to a significant increase. So he said HDI should increase the compensation from 
£150 to £500.
HDI didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P is responsible for the sale of the policy to Mrs L and it also acts as the policy administrator 
on behalf of HDI. But HDI and P are two separate businesses. And, although HDI provides 
the cover and calculates the premiums, it doesnt have any responsibility for what happened 
at the point of sale. That is the sole responsibility of P.
As such I don't intend to comment on any issue concerning the sale of the policy in this 
decision. However, where P acts on HDIs behalf, for example by explaining premium rises, 
complaints about those matters remain HDIs responsibility. And thats what Ive made my 
findings about below.
Given the significant increase in Mrs Ls renewal premiums I can understand her concerns 
that the increases werent fair. But were not the industry regulator and we have no power to 
make an insurer lower its charges. Generally, its not my role to tell an insurer what price it 
should charge for the risks its policies cover, nor do I decide what factors it should take into 
account when assessing those risks. And we usually take the view that, providing they treat 
people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a 
risk.
When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an assessment of 
how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to 
pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own way.
Its up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that they want 
to charge for that cover, based on the risk it thinks a customer presents. And, in general, the 
cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and theres more risk of a 
claim being made. Insurers will also factor in the increasing costs of medical treatment.
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions the pet had, or 
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So ongoing or recurring 
medical conditions wont be covered. But lifetime policies, like the one Mrs L took out, will 
cover any conditions the pet develops on an ongoing basis for the rest of their lives  as long 
as the policy continues.
Providing this cover may be expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go 
up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could be and I cant 
impose one. But Ill look to see if an insurer has treated its customer as it would others with 
similar circumstances.
In response to Mrs Ls complaint HDI told her about some of the factors it considers when 
assessing risk and calculating premiums. Those include factors that will affect all its 
customers, which are things like: the increasing costs of vets fees; insurance premium tax; 
and other underwriting changes. And its assessment of those factors will affect all its 
customers in a similar way. Then there are other specific factors that will affect Mrs L and 
those with dogs who present similar specific risks. That includes things like the dogs age, 
and  following a claim  the risk of a condition recurring.
In this case it's seems that, after Mrs L had made a claim for her dogs treatment, that 
affected the risk HDI felt her dog presented. So HDI reflected that increased risk in Mrs Ls 
premium calculations. That something its allowed to do. Given the size of the increases I 
can understand why Mrs L wasn't happy with them. But that doesn't mean HDI has done 
anything wrong. And I've seen no evidence that HDI singled Mrs L out or treated her 
differently to its other customers with similar circumstances. So, although I can understand 
why Mrs L found the price rises difficult to bear, I dont think HDI calculated her premiums 
unfairly.
Neither Mrs L nor HDI provided any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs L nor HDI objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from 
it.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman