DRN-3257462
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with FCA. The car broke 
down and was diagnosed with a faulty steering rack and a faulty writing loom. The garage 
told Mr W that it could repair the faults under warranty but that there would be a delay in the 
parts being supplied. 
Mr W was provided with a hire car whilst the repairs were carried out. When the repairs were 
completed Mr W became concerned about whether the repairs were covered by his 
warranty. He asked to reject the car. FCA declined the request. It said it had completed 
repairs and offered to refund one monthly payment to reflect the inconvenience caused to Mr 
W. Later on, FCA changed its mind. It offered to refund the deposit, write of the arrears and 
end the agreement and pay compensation.
Mr W wasnt happy with the offer. He said hed been left out of pocket because hed had to 
pay monthly payments, tax and insurance for the three months hed been without the car.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that when a car is rejected, Id expect the business to 
refund the deposit, and to refund monthly payments subject to a deduction for use. I said 
that because Mr W had been provided with a hire car free of charge, I didnt think he should 
receive a refund of any of his monthly payments. But I said I thought Mr W had suffered a 
loss of enjoyment because he was without his car for so long and said that FCA should 
refund 50% of monthly payments for this time. I also said FCA should pay compensation for 
distress and inconvenience because of the delays and the length of time Mr W was without 
the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr W 
responded and said he still felt that the decision was unfair. He said hed had to pay to hire a 
car after he rejected this one, and that the car he ultimately purchased to replace it was older 
than the first car. He said hed been rejected for credit from a bank because FCA had put a 
non-payment marker on his credit file.
Ive taken everything Mr W has said into account, but my decision remains unchanged. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that an adverse marker by FCA on Mr Ws credit 
file was the sole reason for him being declined credit. 
Putting things right
To put things right FCA Automotive Services UK Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr W
Write off the arrears
Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund 50% of payments from February 2021 to date to reflect loss of enjoyment, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FCA must take the steps Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman