DRN-1590971
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Newcastle Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI in 2000. The sale happened in a meeting in branch at the 
same time as they were arranging the mortgage. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI 
was set up just to cover Mr M for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they tried not to take out any insurances with the mortgage but were told 
that they had to in order to get the mortgage approved. Looking at the available evidence, I 
think their recollection is at least partially correct, that some form of insurance was a 
condition of the lending. Thats because the particular mortgage product they were applying 
for had a discounted interest rate which you only got if you agreed to buy at least one of 
three insurance products  buildings, contents or PPI, I can see from the mortgage 
application form that Mr and Mrs M declined buildings and contents insurance but elected to 
have PPI.
Newcastle BS was entitled to attach conditions such as this to its mortgage products, as long 
as it made it clear it was doing so. Looking at the wording and layout of the sales 
documentation, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have known that they had a choice 
about buying PPI. They could have chosen to have buildings or contents insurance instead. 
Or, if they really hadnt wanted to buy any insurance, they could have opted for a different 
mortgage product that didnt have a discounted interest rate, or they could have approached 
a different lender.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ms 
recollection of events has faded slightly. Overall, Im satisfied that the PPI was presented as 
optional. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs M decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have 
to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Newcastle BS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it didnt need to ensure that it 
met their needs. So it didnt have to ask any suitability questions about whether or not the 
couple had any other way of meeting their mortgage repayments if Mr M was unable to work. It was up to Mr and Mrs M to weigh up the cost of the policy against the potential benefit it 
provided, and of course the benefit of getting the lower interest rate on the borrowing.
Mr and Mrs M owned another house, mortgage free, which they were selling at the time. 
This did sell a couple of months later and so Mr and Mrs M say they could have used the 
funds to pay off their new mortgage. But in fact they didnt use these funds to pay off the 
mortgage, not even at the point where they could have done so without penalty. So it seems 
to me they had a preference for keeping the mortgage on their new property.
Mrs M wasnt working, so it was appropriate that the policy was set up just to cover Mr M. Mr 
Ms employer would have given him sick pay for up to 24 weeks. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full pay 
for. The couple had some savings, but having the policy would have meant that they could 
have retained these or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that Newcastle BS didnt provide as much information as it should have about 
the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to 
buy it (even if it was only to qualify for the discounted interest rate), I dont think that more 
information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a 
result of anything Newcastle BS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Newcastle 
BS needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
On a different issue, Mr M has mentioned that he was made redundant in 2006. I dont know 
if he made a claim on the policy for unemployment at that time. If he didnt, he may wish to 
consider contacting the underwriter now to make a retrospective claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman