DRN-3786671
The complaint
Mr H complains Aviva Equity Release UK Limited treated him unfairly when he applied to 
release funds under his equity release mortgage.
What happened
In around November 2020 Mr H took out an equity release  or lifetime - mortgage with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited (Aviva). He took an initial loan of £180,000 and had a cash 
reserve of £130,500.
In early April 2022 Mr H asked Aviva if he could draw down the £130,500. Before agreeing to 
give Mr H the money, Aviva carried out checks on his previous spending and asked Mr H 
what he planned to use the money for. Mr H didnt feel he had to explain that to Aviva before 
they released the funds to him. He thought the money was his. He was elderly and had been 
unwell and said the way Aviva treated him had caused him, and his son whod tried to help 
him, distress. 
In responding to Mr Hs complaint Aviva said Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules 
required them to make sure they were protecting their customers data and finances. They 
explained that, to do that, they ask questions to  amongst other things - check they are 
speaking to the right person, protect customers from fraud and decide how releasing funds 
might affect customers in the future. Aviva said even though Mr H didnt have to go through 
a full application process, the funds were Avivas until they were released, and Mr H wouldnt 
pay interest on them until they had been. 
Mr H was unhappy with Avivas response and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mr H told us he wanted funds to assist with his potential future health 
issues and care needs. But he didnt feel he had to explain that to Aviva before they 
released the funds he asked for. He was unhappy Aviva had kept him waiting on calls and 
passed him between colleagues when he contacted them. Hed found their treatment of him 
distressing. And, to put things right, he wanted Aviva to advance the balance of the cash 
reserve and compensate him for the distress theyd caused him and his son who tried to 
deal with things on his behalf.
Our investigator said Aviva were required to lend responsibly. And since they hadnt been 
satisfied it was in Mr Hs best interests, they hadnt acted unfairly by not agreeing to advance 
the funds. Since Mr H didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear Mr H has found things stressful. But, having considered everything, I dont 
think Aviva acted unreasonably or treated Mr H unfairly. Ill explain why.
Under his equity release mortgage, Mr H had the facility to draw down funds up to a 
maximum of £310,500. He initially took £180,000 so had a cash reserve of £130,500. It was 
that sum he wanted Aviva to advance to him in April 2022.
The mortgage offer stated Mr H could borrow from the cash reserve without further 
approval. So, I can understand why Mr H felt Aviva should give him the additional funds he 
requested without the need for him to explain what he wanted them for.
The mortgage offer also said The cash reserve may be reduced or withdrawn in certain 
circumstances, such as if you do not keep to the terms and conditions, and in certain other 
exceptional circumstances, such as unexpectedly high long term interest rates, there being 
no further equity in your property and Aviva Equity Release UK Limited becoming unable 
reasonably to continue to carry on its lifetime mortgage business.
Under 14. Additional features the offer included Additional borrowing available without 
further approval. It explained a cash reserve had been approved and set aside for Mr H and 
that At any time you may apply to borrow any amount between £2,000 and the remainder of 
your cash reserve
The terms and conditions of the mortgage said at section 3.13 they could reasonably 
suspend or withdrawn the Cash Reserveif we have concerns about financial crime or 
yourhealth or wellbeing. We will only do this if we consider it to be necessary. We remind 
you that any action we take under this section must be consistent with our promise to you 
under section 1.2. 
Section 1.2 said We will always act fairly, in good faith and in a reasonable manner towards 
you when we deal with your Lifetime Mortgage and when we apply or enforce these 
conditions. This promise is an overriding principle and you should read each of the sections 
of these Conditions in light of this promise.
Section 1.2 reflects the FCA principles and rules set out in the FCA Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook that require Aviva to, amongst other things, pay 
due regard to the interests of their customers and treat them fairly. 
The effect of the mortgage offer, the mortgage terms and conditions and relevant FCA rules 
is that whilst Mr H didnt have to go through a full mortgage application to draw down the 
cash reserve, he still had to apply; Aviva could, in certain circumstances, suspend or 
withdraw the facility, provided they acted fairly in doing so; and Aviva needed to make sure 
the lending to Mr H was in his best interests.
Bearing the above in mind, it was reasonable for Aviva to ask questions about what Mr H 
planned to do with the money he was applying to draw down. Mr H and his son gave Aviva 
different information at different times about how the money would be used. So, it was 
reasonable for Aviva to have concerns about whether Mr H might have been under some 
pressure to draw the money down or whether it was in his best interests to do so. Hed begin 
paying interest on it as soon as he did. And it would impact the equity in his property that 
would form part of his estate in due course.
I can see Aviva spent time discussing things with both Mr H and his son. They explained 
what they were doing, and why. In June 2022 Aviva corresponded with Mr Hs solicitors and 
explained their concerns and that some of the conversations theyd had with Mr Hs son had 
been challenging. The solicitors set out the detail of how Mr H planned to use the funds once 
theyd been advanced to him. But I understand Mr H decided to re-mortgage with another 
lender and the application with Aviva didnt go any further. 
I can understand it was stressful for Mr H to have to speak to different Aviva staff on the phone. He was unhappy about having to explain things and his application wasnt 
progressing as quickly as hed have liked. But, I dont think Aviva treated him unfairly for the 
reasons Ive explained. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr H will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman