DRN-3742465
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) didnt 
handle the notification of a vehicle theft, under its commercial vehicle insurance policy, 
correctly. 
What happened
J took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy. In January 2021 Js van was stolen while 
the keys were still in the ignition. J said it was aware that the theft wouldnt be covered by 
West Bay due to the circumstances in which the vehicle was stolen and so it contacted West 
Bay to report the theft, but it didnt intend to pursue a claim. 
In March 2021, the stolen vehicle was recovered, and West Bay were notified. J then 
approached the dealership where the vehicle was purchased from, to see if they would buy it 
back. J said the dealership ran a HPI check which came back with a written off  stolen 
marker against the vehicle which prevented J from being able to sell the recovered vehicle. 
West Bay said that J had initiated a claim but then withdrew it when the vehicle was 
recovered. In its final response letter West Bay said it had correctly recorded the claim and 
applied the necessary markers. West Bay agreed to close the claim and allow Js no claims 
discount (NCD). 
J then attempted to insure another one of its vehicles however it was told that there was an 
open claim on the claims and underwriting exchange database (CUE) with the NCD 
disallowed. In light of this information, the insurer said that the price it had previously quoted 
was no longer available. J received a new quote which was considerably higher than the 
initial quote. 
J was dissatisfied that the claim remained open on CUE even though West Bay had agreed 
to close it. 
J complained that as a result of West Bay incorrectly recording the notification as a claim 
and leaving it open on CUE, as well as leaving a marker on the Motor Insurers Anti-Fraud 
and Theft Register (MIAFTR) stating written off  stolen when the vehicle had been 
recovered, had a financial impact on J as it was unable to insure its other vehicles without 
being penalised for the open claim on CUE and it could not sell the recovered vehicle either. 
J also complained about the time and stress this caused its director in dealing with the 
matter.  
West Bay upheld Js complaint and offered £100 compensation for the time J spent in 
contacting them to resolve the matter. They also later offered a further £150 compensation 
for leaving the claim as open with NCD disallowed even after the vehicle was recovered and 
it agreed to close the claim and allow the NCD. 
J didnt think West Bay had done enough to put things right and therefore it referred its 
complaint to our service.   
One of our investigators looked at what happened. She felt that West Bay hadnt treated J 
fairly. She concluded that when J contacted West Bay about the theft of the vehicle it was for 
notification purposes only and therefore West Bay shouldnt have recorded it is a claim on 
CUE. She was satisfied that the HPI marker had now been corrected but she thought that a 
significant amount of time was spent by J to resolve the incorrectly recorded notification of 
the claim and to remove the HPI marker once the vehicle was recovered. 
When considering the impact of what had happened, she said that J hadnt gone ahead with 
the insurance quotes for the other vehicle and therefore it wasnt a cost it had incurred and 
while J complained about sending an incorrect response to its complaint this wasnt 
something she could consider because complaint handling isnt within our remit. 
She suggested that to put things right, West Bay should update the way the claim had been 
recorded on the CUE database to reflect that it was notification only and increase its offer of 
compensation to £300. West bay accepted the investigators findings however, J didnt think 
the offer was sufficient. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Did West Bay correctly record the claim
When considering whether or not West Bay acted correctly by recording the theft as a claim 
on CUE, I have listened to the call recording of the conversation which took place when J 
contacted West Bay to inform it of the theft. 
I note that before the conversation took place, J left a message for West Bay informing them 
that it wanted to report a theft on an insured vehicle. Later, West Bay returned the call. 
J told West Bay it wanted to report a theft and West Bay took some further details of what 
happened and explained the claims process. During the conversation, West Bay advised 
that the excess would be applicable if J chose to make a claim against its policy. Also, while 
going through the claims process, West Bay also confirmed that nothing would go ahead 
until J completed an online questionnaire. 
West Bay told our investigator that they treated this as a claim because it would be left to J 
to make it clear that it didnt want to make a claim
I agree with our investigator that during the call, J didnt say it wanted to make a claim, but it 
also didnt say that it didnt. I have therefore carefully thought about what was actually said 
and the actions of both parties in determining their intention.  
when J called West Bay it said it was calling to reporting the theft, it didnt say anything 
about making a claim. West Bay informed J that the excess will become applicable if a claim 
is made. From the language used by West Bay, I think it suggests that it left it open for J to 
decide whether or not it wanted to claim. Also, it told J that an online questionnaire is 
required if it wanted to make a claim, but J didnt complete the questionnaire. Furthermore, 
when J received an email from West Bay about the claim, it advised that it hadnt wanted to 
claim as it knew the theft wasnt covered. Taking everything into consideration, Im 
persuaded that Js actions and comments indicate that its intention to inform West Bay of the 
theft was for notification purposes only and therefore West Bay didnt act correctly by recording the theft as a claim. 
Its not in dispute that the claim was recorded on CUE as open and the NCD disallowed. 
West Bay agreed to close the claim and allow the NCD however there was a delay in 
actioning it. West Bay offered to pay £150 compensation for the delays.   
J told us it retrieved a quote from an insurer for another vehicle, but the quote increased due 
to the claim being left as open and NCD disallowed. While I understand from J that the initial 
quote increased considerably from £1,889.69 to £8,900, J didnt go ahead with that policy, 
so it hasnt incurred a cost. J told us that the policy it went ahead with cost £1,082.42. 
The written off  stolen marker 
J also complained that West Bay applied a written off  stolen marker and failed to remove 
it when the vehicle was recovered. As a result, J was unable to the sell the recovered 
vehicle. 
West Bay said it agreed to remove the marker in April 2021, one month after the vehicle was 
recovered, however J said the marker was still there in August 2021 which prevented it from 
selling the vehicle. Its difficult to know now what would have actually happened  by this I 
mean whether the dealer would have purchased the vehicle and how much they would have 
paid for it. I understand that J is still in possession of the vehicle, but the marker has now 
been removed so J could sell the vehicle if it still wants to. Having said that, I do agree with 
the investigator that it took West Bay longer than I wouldve expected to remove the marker 
which caused J inconvenience. I have considered below whether West Bays offer of 
compensation in this respect is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Complaint handling 
J complained that West Bays response to its complaint was inaccurate. 
Complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as such, the issues raised 
that relate directly to how West Bay have responded to the complaint do not come under my 
powers to consider. I therefore wont comment on this part of Js complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, West Bay should change the way the reported theft has been 
recorded on CUE to reflect that it was notification only.
I understand the written off  stolen marker has now been removed and therefore J is able 
to sell the vehicle if it wishes to do so. I do agree with the investigator that it took West Bay 
longer than it should have to amend the marker. Ive considered below whether its offer of 
compensation is sufficient. 
I agree with our investigator that I dont have enough evidence to determine the impact of 
the open claim on CUE and disallowed NCD on any other insurance policies taken out by J. 
J didnt go ahead with the policy where the price increased to over £8,000 and so as no cost 
was incurred, I havent considered this any further. For the policy which J did take out, J is 
free to ask the new insurer to re-rate the policy after West Bay updates CUE. 
Ive also thought about whether the compensation which has already been offered by West 
Bay is sufficient and I dont think it is. I agree with our investigator that West Bay should 
increase its offer to £300 to compensate J for the time spent in dealing with the incorrect 
claim record and the removal of the HPI marker once the vehicle had been recovered. Js director informed us that that situation has caused him a lot of stress and impacted his 
mental health. I am very sorry to hear that. But, as our investigator explained in her view, we 
can only consider the impact of West Bays action on J, as the eligible complainant to our 
service, and not its director personally.
Having considered everything thats happened very carefully, Im satisfied that £300 is a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate J for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Js complaint and I direct 
West Bay Insurance Plc to: 
Update CUE to reflect the report of theft was notification only and to inform J when 
this is done so it can have its current policy re-rated if it chooses to do so. 
Pay J £300 in total for the inconvenience caused by the way it handled the theft 
notification and the service it provided thereafter. For avoidance of doubt, the £300 
includes any compensation already offered by West Bay Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman