DRN-2908169
The complaint
Ms B complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. In that provisional decision, I 
explained why I thought there was evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. I explained why, having looked at the available information in relation to the issues 
with the car, I was persuaded that there was a fault with the turbo which hadnt been 
resolved by an attempt at repair.
I explained that whilst I had taken into account Santanders point about a third-party garage 
cleaning the turbo, there was no evidence that cleaning the turbo was related to the issues 
which Ms B had experienced with the turbo. I also noted that the supplying dealer had 
acknowledged that there was a fault and had done so after repairs had been attempted, 
which amounts to an acknowledgement that repairs had been unsuccessful. 
Ms B said she agreed with my decision but asked me to take into account that she had 
made further monthly payments on the car since I issued my provisional decision.
Santander replied and said it had nothing further to add but asked that when Ms B confirmed 
acceptance of the decision she returned the courtesy car to the supplying dealer promptly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has said she agrees with my decision. Santander has said it has nothing to add. 
Therefore, I see no reasons to reach a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Ms B has said she has made further monthly payments and she would like these refunded. I 
agree that these should be refunded because although Ms B has been supplied with a 
courtesy car, it isnt taxed, so she is unable to use it. 
Putting things right
Santander should allow Ms B to reject the car because it is of unsatisfactory quality and the 
attempt at repair has been unsuccessful. Santander should also pay compensation because 
of the trouble and upset which has been caused to Ms B , and the amount of time shes 
been without her car.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Ms B
Refund Ms Bs deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund the cost of the specialist garage investigation
Refund 4 monthly payments to Ms B (to take account of the further two payment made since 
I issued my provisional decision)
Pay compensation of £200 for trouble and upset
Mark the agreement as settled on Ms Bs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman