DRN-1590469
 
The complaint
 Mr C says that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened 
In 2000 Mr C took out a Nationwide mortgage  without PPI. In March 2011 he took out PPI 
to protect his mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered Mr C in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr C disagrees. He 
mainly says the policy was mis-sold because it didn't provide him with useful cover so it 
wasnt something he needed.  
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. 
But that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr C told us he took out the 
PPI during a meeting (and Nationwide says thats what its records show) so I think its likely 
thats what happened.  
PPI was taken out to protect Mr Cs mortgage around 11 years or so after his mortgage 
started. And it seems clear from what hes said that he understood it was up to him to apply 
for cover if he wanted to have it and the PPI was added to his mortgage account when he 
chose to take it out.
Nationwide says it didnt advise Mr C to take out the policy. But Ive looked carefully at 
whether it gave him clear enough information so he could decide if the policy was right for 
him.
Nationwide told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date that 
Mr C took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use shortly before  
so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr C took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
It looks to me like Mr C was eligible for the PPI. 
Ive taken into account what Mr C told us about his sick pay entitlement through work  he 
said he couldve relied on getting full sick pay for 6 months followed by half pay for 12 months. The policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
an accident or illness that prevented Mr C from working. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
sick pay providing a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time  especially if 
Mr C mightve faced extra costs as a result of falling ill or becoming disabled and bearing in 
mind that he wouldve been on half pay only after 6 months off work. 
In addition to this, PPI wouldve also paid out for 12 months if Mr C became unexpectedly 
unemployed.
And Mr C couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection for 
his mortgage.
I dont know if Mr C wouldve always had savings or other insurance to rely on if hed needed 
to make a claim as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think the policy offered Mr C useful benefits given his particular circumstances.
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr C about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Mr C told us that he was led to believe PPI would cover him for voluntary 
redundancy but considers it was mis-sold as he would never have accepted compulsory 
redundancy. Mr C told us he would always have chosen voluntary redundancy so he 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy for this.
I dont know what Nationwide said to Mr C when he applied to take out this policy. Ive taken 
into account everything Mr C has told us about the way he says Nationwide sold him the 
PPI. But what Mr C says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr C to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. 
I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
PPI is intended to provide protection in the event of the unexpected happening  agreeing 
terms in a voluntary redundancy situation is a process that both parties engage in by 
consent  not an unexpected and unplanned event. PPI wouldnt normally cover this 
situation  the fact that this policy didn't provide cover in the event of voluntary redundancy 
isnt unusual or unexpected. So I think its unlikely that Nationwide would've told Mr C that 
voluntary redundancy would be covered by the policy. And I havent seen enough 
information for me to able to say that it did. What Mr C says about the way he was sold the 
PPI isn't enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C had secure employment - but no one can be certain that their 
employer will always be willing and able to offer voluntary redundancy terms to every 
employee that might want that option  or that voluntary redundancy terms can always be 
agreed on terms that are acceptable to both parties. The policy wouldve protected Mr C 
against the risk of becoming unexpectedly unemployed. 
And it looks to me like Mr C couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover hed taken 
out  which included not just protection against losing his job unexpectedly but also being 
unable to work as a result of disability. So overall, I dont think that having clearer information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations was likely to have put Mr C off taking out the 
cover he chose. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr C at the outset. But he chose to take out 
the policy when he didn't have to  so it looks like he was happy to pay for it at the time. If 
his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for the PPI he couldve cancelled 
the policy at any time without incurring any additional costs as he paid for the policy each month. Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve made a different decision about 
whether to take out PPI if better information had been provided. 
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Mr C said in response to the adjudicators view. For the 
reasons Ive set out, these points dont change my decision.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman