DRN-2747022
The complaint
Mrs Fs complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt uphold her claim made under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mrs F paid for a university course using her Lloyds credit card. She says that there was a 
breach of contract as she didnt receive the mentoring and supervision she should have. She 
says she only received two months of supervision and wasnt supported with the submission 
of her dissertation. Mrs F had heart surgery and says her situation wasnt accommodated by 
the university.
Lloyds says that there wasnt evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation and so it 
didnt uphold Mrs F claim.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that a breach of contract had 
occurred. However, she thought Lloyds hadnt provided the service it should have while 
dealing with Mrs Fs claim resulting in delays and further upset due to an incorrect reference 
in the final response letter regarding an offer from the university. Because of this, while she 
didnt think Lloyds was wrong to reject the section 75 claim she thought it should pay Mrs F 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the service not being of a 
standard it should have been.
Our investigator noted the issues Mrs F had raised about  her subject access request but 
said Lloyds hadnt investigated this issue and so this would need to be raised separately.
Mrs F didnt accept our investigators view. She reiterated that she believed there had been 
a breach of contract as she didnt receive the supervision she should have, the university 
failed to register her disability following her heart surgery and refused to provide a 
replacement supervisor. Mrs F says her current university have provided her with the correct 
support and she achieved a high mark in her dissertation showing she was capable for a 
good result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 enables a consumer, under certain circumstances, to make a claim against a 
credit provider if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods 
or services. In this case, Mrs F paid for a university course using her Lloyds credit card and 
the amount paid was within the section 75 limits. Therefore, I find it reasonable that Lloyds 
investigated Mrs Fs claim.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Fs claim as it said that a breach of contract nor misrepresentation 
had occurred. Mrs F didnt accept this and referred her complaint to this service. As our 
investigator explained, when a complaint is brought to our service in relation to a section 75 
claim our role isnt to investigate the service provider but Lloyds handling of the claim.  
I can understand how upsetting this process has been for Mrs F but in order for me to uphold 
this complaint I need to be satisfied that Lloyds didnt handle Mrs Fs claim in a reasonable 
and fair way. I have looked at the evidence that has been provided and I note the timeline of 
events. 
Mrs F said that the course should have started in April 2018, but she wasnt assigned a 
supervisor until November 2018. I have looked at the emails from November 2018. Mrs F 
was happy with the supervisor assigned and raised some concerns she had with her 
dissertation at that time. She said she thought this would be completed by January 2019. 
Comments were provided and I can see Mrs F continued with the dialogue with the 
supervisor in March 2019 at which point she explains she would be applying for extra time. 
Further communication took place between Mrs F and the supervisor in April 2019 when 
further comments on her work were provided. Mrs F notes these and says she has a 
submission date of September 2019. While I appreciate Mrs Fs comments that she doesnt 
think she received the support she should have, based on what I have seen I do not find I 
have enough to say that there was a breach of contract.
I am sorry to hear of the health issues Mrs F has experienced and understand why she was 
upset that she wasnt contacted about her welfare and feels her circumstances werent 
properly taken into account. However, having looked through the information provided it 
appears that Mrs F was offered an extension when this was requested and that she was 
given the opportunity to resubmit her work in February 2020. I understand why Mrs F no 
longer wished to continue with the university, but I do not find I can say that there was 
enough evidence to say that there was a breach of contract.
While I note Mrs Fs comments about her subsequent studies and how she has been 
supported in these, I can only consider the issues raised about the service provided that 
Mrs F has raised her claim about and based on what I have seen I do not find that Lloyds did 
anything wrong by not upholding her claim based on the evidence provided.
While I do not find that Lloyds was wrong to not uphold Mrs Fs section 75 claim, I do not find 
that it provided the service it should have in the handling of the investigation. It provided 
incorrect information in its final response letter about an offer from the university which 
caused additional upset and delays. Because of the issues experienced in the investigating 
of this claim, I find that Mrs F was caused undue distress and inconvenience and I agree 
with our investigators recommendation that Lloyds pay Mrs F £150 compensation. 
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay compensation of £150.00 to Mrs F.My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should take the actions set out above in resolution 
of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman