DRN-4158561
The complaint
Mr K complains, via a third party representative, that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMFL) acted
irresponsibly when it lent him £15,000 under a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used
car.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr K entered into an agreement with BMFL for a used car costing £17,480.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr K undertook to pay a
deposit of £2,480 (to the supplying dealership) followed by 59 monthly payments of £348.79
and 1 monthly payment of £349.79 (to BMFL)  making a total repayable of £23,408.40 at an
APR of 14.9%.
As of 1 March 2023, Mr K had paid £2,480 to the dealership and 19 payments of £348.79 to
BMFL (against 20 required payments of the same amount). This meant that on
1 March 2023 he was £348.79 in arrears (one monthly payment). Between 5 July 2021 and
1 March 2023 Mr K had three monthly direct debits returned unpaid, two of which he then
paid by way of debit card shortly after the monthly payment due date. Mr K says that at this
point in time the odometer reading was 67,000 miles compared to approximately 53,000
miles at the time of acquisition  an increase of 14,000 miles.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that
BMFL had indeed acted irresponsibly when it decided to lend Mr K £15,000. She then went
on to explain what BMFL should do to fairly, and reasonably, compensate Mr K for this
irresponsible lending. In summary she said that BMFL should:
collect the car at no cost to Mr K
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
remove any adverse information it may have recorded (in respect of the agreement)
with one or more third part credit reference agencies
BMFL agreed with the investigators view, but Mr K didnt. Mr K said that he should be
allowed to keep the car and simply be required to pay BMFL the capital sum he had
originally borrowed at 0% ie he should be able to keep the car and simply be required to
repay BMFL £15,000.
The investigator considered Mr Ks response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change
her mind. Therefore, Mr Ks complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
In May 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMFL and Mr Ks appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and
good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and
irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
The investigator concluded that given what BMFLs search of Mr Ks credit file returned it
should have carried out further checks to assess whether the finance Mr K had applied for
was affordable. And further checks on the part of BMFL would have, or should have, led it to
conclude that the finance applied for wasnt affordable.
BMFL has provided a copy of the credit file search it undertook. Ive looked at this and note
that Mr K:
had £26,399 of credit card debt spread across 10 separate cards with a combined
limit of £28,720
was over his credit limit on 4 of his 10 credit cards
was at, or over, 94% of his credit limit on 4 of his 10 credit cards
was in arrears on 3 of his 10 credit cards
was in default on one his 10 credit cards
at 5% had monthly credit card repayment commitments of £1,320
had 4 loans with an outstanding combined balance of £23,056
had monthly loan commitments of £844
Given that Mr K said he was earning £2,683 a month net, its my understanding that after
paying the above he would have had £519 (£2,683 less £1,320 less £844) to meet all of his
other expenditure (whether sole or joint), expenditure that would have included, but not been
restricted to, mortgage/rent, bills (including food) and the finance he was applying for with
BMFL (at a monthly cost of £348.79).
And in my view this should have been enough for BMFL to have concluded that further
affordability checks on its part were warranted, even if the finance being applied for was to
replace existing finance at a higher monthly repayment cost.
Mr K has provided our service with bank statements (covering the period April to June 2021).
Now Im not saying BMFL should have requested these as part of its further checks, but I
think they give a good indication of what further checks on the part of BMFL might have
uncovered.
My review of these bank statements show that for 79 days out of 91 Mr K was overdrawn
and had 6 direct debits returned unpaid. They also show that he had regular expenditure of
more than the sum of £519 referenced by me above. And because of this (and given what
BMFLs credit file search returned) Im satisfied that it acted irresponsibly in granting Mr K
the finance that it did.
Having concluded that BMFL acted irresponsibly in granting Mr K the finance that it did, what
I now need to decide is what it should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr K.
As I dont think BMFL should have granted the finance, it should refund all the payments
Mr K has made, including any deposit. However, Mr K has had use of the car and I think its
only fair that he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly repayments of nearly
£350 a month are a fair reflection of that usage.There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,
Mr Ks likely overall usage of the car, Mr Ks previous agreement and the monthly cost of the
same and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have been if he didnt have the car. And
having done so, I think Mr K should have to pay £250 for each month he has had the car or
continues to have the car.
Mr K says he would like to keep the car and I can understand his reasons for wanting to do
so. But given that Im of the view that the finance shouldnt have been granted in the first
instance, it means Im now asking BMFL to terminate the agreement.
I note that the cash price of the car was £17,480. From the information provided, Mr K had
repaid around £9,000 (including the deposit) as of 1 March 2023, which represents about
50% of the cash price. But the purpose of our awards is to try as best as possible to place
consumers like Mr K back in the position they would have been in had the unfair lending not
taken place.
Mr K doesnt own the car and as things stand hes a long way from paying off the cash price.
Im also of the view that allowing Mr K to keep the car and allowing him to repay the
remaining capital balance owing on it at affordable monthly repayments (as he has
requested) would be unfair on BMFL.
So, to settle matters, I currently find that BMFL should:
end the agreement and collect the car from Mr K with nothing further to pay
refund all the payments Mr K has made (including his deposit) less £250 a month for
each month he has had the car, or continues to have the car
if Mr K has paid more than the fair usage figure, BMFL should refund any
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each
overpayment to the date of settlement, or
if Mr K has paid less than the fair usage figure, BMFL should arrange an affordable
and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance
once BMFL has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse
information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding the agreement
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BMFL to take off tax from this interest. BMFL must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr K asks for one
BMFL responded to say it accepted my provisional decision but was concerned that my 
direction that it should refund all the payments Mr K has made (including his deposit) less 
£250 a month for each month he has had the car, or continues to have the car is ambiguous 
and open to interpretation.
Mr K responded to say that he didnt wish to give the car back (as he needed it), but he was 
prepared to repay the capital sum he borrowed from BMFL at 0%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K would like to keep the car. But for the reasons explained in my provisional 
decision (which Im satisfied I dont need to repeat, or expand on, here) Im not persuaded 
this would, in all the circumstances of this case, be fair or reasonable.
BMFL is concerned that my direction that it should refund all the payments Mr K has made 
(including his deposit) less £250 a month for each month he has had the car, or continues to 
have the car is ambiguous and open to interpretation. Im not persuaded that it is, but to 
avoid any uncertainty Ive expanded slightly on this direction below (in the section Putting 
things right).
So, with the exception of a slight expansion on one of my provisional compensation findings, 
I can confirm that I see no good reason to depart from my provisional decision and I now 
confirm it as final.
Putting things right
To settle matters, I find that BMFL must:
end the agreement and collect the car from Mr K with nothing further to pay
refund all the payments Mr K has made (including his deposit) less £250 a month for
each month he has had the car, or continues to have the car between the date of this 
(final) decision and it being collected by BMFL in line with my direction above
if Mr K has paid more than the fair usage figure, BMFL should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement, or
if Mr K has paid less than the fair usage figure, BMFL should arrange an affordable
and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance
once BMFL has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse
information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding the agreement
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BMFL to take off tax from this interest. BMFL must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr K asks for one
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and find that Blue Motor Finance Ltd must 
compensate Mr K as explained in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman