DRN-3471699
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) handled the transfer 
of his stocks and shares ISA to its platform.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below.
In February 2021 Mr C requested a transfer of his ISA from another provider to II. At the time 
II proposed the transfer take place in the last week of February, however, it completed in 
mid-May  an additional 11 weeks later.
Unhappy with the delays, Mr C complained. II considered the complaint but it said that it had 
responded to the other provider in good time. Mr C disagreed with IIs findings, so he 
referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. He gathered a detailed timeline of events and 
found that whilst there had been an initial error by the other provider, contrary to IIs 
submission that it had been given the information it needed on 17 May, hed seen evidence 
to indicate it had all it needed on 8 April. As II didnt update Mr Cs account information until 
mid-May, further attempts to transfer the ISA failed resulting in a delay. The investigator 
recommended that II pay Mr C £150 compensation. II accepted but Mr C didnt. Mr C felt that 
he has lost opportunities to invest and hed experienced stress and inconvenience.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
I appreciate Mr C has found this a frustrating experience. Its clear II didnt handle the ISA 
transfer in the way it should have done once it received the correct information on 8 April 
2021. This resulted in an avoidable delay of approximately four weeks and Mr C having to 
repeatedly contact both II and the third party to seek updates
Mr C says II should compensate him for both lost investment opportunities amounting to £5, 
000 as well as pay him £500 compensation to match the figure the other provider has given 
for stress and inconvenience caused by the delays. 
Ive looked at all of the evidence and taken into account Mr Cs submissions. While I do 
accept the IIs actions fell short of the standard Id expect, with regards to the delay in 
transferring his ISA account, I can only ask II to put things right where there is evidence of 
an actual loss for which it is responsible. But theres no evidence when Mr C was chasing 
that he was intending to sell his shares. If that was his intention, I would have expected him 
to provide evidence to support this during the delay. So, it follows that in this instance, I cant 
ask II to compensate for hypothetical losses.
However, I do think that II should pay Mr C some compensation for the period it caused a 
delay. I agree with the investigator that it should pay £150. I say this because II was 
responsible for four of those additional weeks of delay. That did cause Mr C some 
inconvenience, particularly given the number of messages and calls. So, I think that £150 is 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset this delay caused.
Mr C says that II should match the compensation the other provider has paid. But as the 
investigator has explained, our service makes its awards based on we find to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And here, I think the award of £150 
adequately compensates Mr for the distress caused by IIs handling of the transfer.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited must pay Mr C £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him by delaying his ISA transfer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman