DRN-4224136
The complaint
Mr P complains about the value U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) 
placed on his car when it was written off.
What happened
Mr P had motor insurance with Direct Line. His car was involved in an accident and Direct 
Line decided it couldnt be economically repaired. Under the terms of Mr Ps policy, Direct 
Line offered him the market value of the car, which it calculated as £11,714. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this sum as he said he couldnt replace the car for this amount. He 
complained to Direct Line. Direct Line said when its engineers assess a vehicles value, they 
take into account the make, model and its individual specifications and cross reference these 
with recognised motor trade guides. Direct Line said in this instance the guides produced 
values of £11,138 and £12,290, an average of £11,714. Direct Line said its engineers need 
to be confident that the price being quoted would enable Mr P to replace what is lost. And so 
they also conduct national market research and in this instance a comparative vehicle was 
being advertised for £11,498. Direct Line said this amount was less than the average of the 
guides, so the offer remained unchanged. Direct Line said it also asked a second engineer 
to review Mr Ps case but they could not justify an increase, nor the £13,000 he was seeking. 
Direct Line said the claim had been settled in accordance with terms and conditions of Mr 
Ps policy.
Mr P wasnt happy with Direct Lines response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. The investigator said Direct Line had broadly 
followed this services general approach to vehicle valuations and its pre accident valuation 
of the vehicle wasnt unreasonable. So he said Direct Line had settled Mr Ps claim fairly and 
in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr P wasnt happy with what the investigator said and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr P wants Direct Line to provide a value that lets him replace his car with one of a 
similar quality, provenance and history. Mr P says he cant replace his car for the amount 
offered by Direct Line and that a figure of £13,000 would be more realistic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps insurance policy document with Direct Line said:
How much will you pay if my car is damaged? 
Where damage to your car is covered under your policy, well pay the cost of repairing or 
replacing your car up to its UK market value.
Market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. (My emphasis).
Direct Line obtained three valuations from motor trade guides. One was quite significantly 
lower than the other two, so Direct Line ignored it and averaged the other two valuations. Its 
important to note that although the guides are described as motor trade guides this is 
because they are guides used by the motor trade. The guides can be used to produce trade 
or retail valuations. In this case Ive seen screenshots of the valuations Direct Line obtained 
and I can confirm that the figures Direct Line used are retail valuations not trade valuations. 
In addition our investigator ran his own valuation with another motor trade guide, which at 
the date of loss came back with a retail valuation within the range of the two valuations used 
by Direct Line.
Mr P has provided a list of similar cars with prices which he says he has been able to find 
online. These are higher than the market value paid by Direct Line. However he has not 
been able to provide any actual adverts or screenshots or sellers details, and most of the 
prices he has provided are from some months after the accident. According to the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps policy, the market value is calculated at the date of the accident or loss.
In any event it is important to note that cars can often be sold for less than the advertised 
price. The approach taken by this service is that, in the absence of good evidence to the 
contrary, the motor trade guides are very likely to be accurate. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research using for example advertised selling prices, auction prices 
and actual selling prices.
So on balance I think the market value paid by Direct Line in settlement of Mr Ps claim was 
fair and reasonable and in accordance with the terms and conditions of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. So I wont be asking U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman