DRN-3111165
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Target Servicing Limited has made an error in relation to the collection 
of a monthly fee but is continuing to hold him liable for the amounts it failed to collect.
What happened
In 2017, Mr S used a help-to-buy scheme to assist with the purchase of a property. Target is 
responsible for administering the help-to-buy lending.
In April 2021 Target wrote to Mr S saying that, due to its error, a direct debit for a monthly £1 
management fee due under the loan agreement had not been collected since the loan 
started. The letter asked Mr S to get in touch to set up a direct debit and discuss how he 
would pay the £41 of outstanding fees.
Mr S contacted Target and set up a direct debit to cover future fees. But while Mr S accepted 
he was responsible for the fee moving forward, he was unhappy at being asked to pay the 
fees that had previously been missed as this had only come about due to Targets error. So, 
he felt it should write off the earlier fees.
Target again acknowledged that it had made a mistake and apologised. But it said the 
management fee formed part of Mr S loan agreement so it felt these were still due and 
declined to write them off.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I intended to uphold Mr S 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
Ive reviewed the agreement that Mr S made when taking out the loan. And this does confirm 
that a monthly management fee of £1 was payable from the outset.
Im also satisfied though that the reason that this was not collected for over three years was 
due to an error by Target. I also dont think there was anything that shouldve alerted Mr S to 
there being a problem sooner. I think it was reasonable for him to expect that Target 
wouldve set up the direct debit correctly or contacted him sooner if there was a problem.
And given the amount involved, I think it is reasonable that he wouldnt have noticed, from 
his current account statements, that this hadnt happened. His annual loan statements from 
Target also seem to have indicated that there were no fees outstanding.
Target says, even though it made an error, Mr S should be required to pay all of the fees, 
including those that it failed to collect. But I dont think that is entirely fair.
I think it is reasonable that Mr S is responsible for the fees from the point the error was 
discovered in April 2021. But the reason the fees before this (totalling £41) were missed was 
because of Target doing something wrong. Without which Im satisfied Mr S would likely 
have paid the fees on time as required. Ive thought carefully about this and considered our 
services general approach to similar scenarios  particularly where a loan has been 
underfunded because a business has not collected the correct amount. And having done so, 
I think, on a fair and reasonable basis, Target should write off the fees that were missed due 
to its error, totalling £41.
Target has already confirmed that no adverse information has been recorded with credit 
reference agencies in respect of these fees, so Im satisfied that it doesnt need to take any 
further action in this regard.
While I think that Target should write off fees missed, I dont think it would be fair to require it 
to pay further compensation. I appreciate that it wouldve been a shock for Mr S to be told 
that something had gone wrong. But I dont think Target was wrong to write to him to explain 
this. It needed to let him know. The letter from Target acknowledged it had made an error.
Which I think was fair. And when Mr S called Target to discuss this, although it didnt agree 
to write the amount off, it did apologise. And again, I think this was fair.
I know Mr S was unhappy and disappointed that Target did not agree to write the balance off 
at the time which led to him pursuing his complaint with our service. But it was entitled 
decide what it felt was appropriate when reviewing the complaint. And just because I think it 
should now do something differently, that doesnt mean the service it provided when 
handling the complaint was inadequate  it just didnt agree with what Mr S wanted.
Overall, Im satisfied that waiving the fees Ive mentioned is a fair way of addressing the 
initial error in not collecting them to begin with. 
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Target said it had nothing further to add to its response to our Investigators opinion. 
Mr S did not provide any additional comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Targets response to our Investigators opinion, it said it felt an apology was sufficient to 
resolve matters and that it shouldnt be required to pay any redress. And it has said it has 
nothing further to add to this. I considered these comments when making my provisional 
findings. But for the reasons I explained, I didnt agree.
Having considered everything again, as neither party have provided me with any additional 
information to take into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. And 
so, for the same reasons  which Ive summarised above, I think Target made an error and 
to put things right, should write off the fees it failed to collect as a result of this error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr S complaint.
To put things right I order Target Servicing Limited to write off the £41 in management fees 
that it previously failed to collect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman