DRN-3799884
The complaint
Mr O is a director of Company IL and is bringing this complaint about Clearbank Limited on 
Company ILs behalf. He is unhappy with how an application for opening a business bank 
account was handled. 
Mr O applied for the business bank account through Platform T, a business financial platform 
providing digital banking services, including offering business bank accounts with Clearbank 
Limited. 
For the purposes of this decision I have referred to both Platform T and Clearbank as 
appropriate.
What happened
Company IL was incorporated on 30 November 2021 and on 1 December 2021 Mr O applied 
to open a business bank account for Company IL. 
As part of the application process Mr O was asked to provide proof of identity and proof of 
address, and was also asked some questions about the nature of Company ILs business. 
During the course of the application Mr O was led to believe that the nature of Company ILs 
business was not acceptable for the purposes of opening the account. However, it later 
became apparent that Platform T had been wrong in telling Mr O this. 
The proof of address Mr O provided was unacceptable as Platform T required Mr O to 
provide proof of address for his personal address, not the business address. Mr O was also 
told he would need to provide a different form of identification as his non-UK passport could 
not be verified. And he was then wrongly led to believe that the application had been 
rejected due to his non-UK passport. Mr O felt this was discriminatory and raised his 
concerns. 
Platform T responded to Mr Os complaint and explained their systems could not verify 
Mr Os non-UK passport, so they were unable to accept it as a form of identification for him, 
and it appeared Mr O was unable to provide alternative identification. 
Platform T explained they were looking to make changes to their systems to accommodate 
passports from the country Mr Os passport was issued from, however it was not something 
they could verify or accept at that time. Platform T also noted that Mr O had been unable to 
provide any other documentation to verify his personal address, so Mr O decided in the end 
to withdraw the application and arrange for another company director to apply for the 
business account instead. Platform T apologised for their errors in communication including 
not properly acknowledging and addressing Mr Os concerns about the application process. 
As Mr O could not resolve things with Platform T he brought the complaint to our service, 
and our service approached ClearBank as the providers of the business bank account for 
their file. 
In response to our service ClearBank reviewed what had happened and put forward an offer 
to Mr O for £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience which had caused him to 
believe he had been discriminated against. They noted Platform T had not been clear with 
Mr O and offered their reassurance that Mr O had not been discriminated against, rather it 
was a problem with the system being used which was unable to verify Mr Os non-UK 
passport at that time. 
Our investigator put ClearBanks offer to Mr O, but he did not accept it, so our investigator 
considered Mr Os complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and concluded that the offer made by 
ClearBank was fair in the circumstances. The investigator explained theyd considered the 
Equality Act 2010, and that their review was based on what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. The investigator explained that banks are responsible for 
ensuring they meet their obligations to know their customer, and it appeared Platform Ts 
systems werent able to verify Mr Os non-UK passport. The investigator said while it was 
unhelpful for Mr O, there was no suggestion that Mr O had been treated any differently 
because of his nationality as the application was not rejected as Mr O could have provided 
alternative identification. The investigator also noted that Platform T was in the process of 
introducing new software to accommodate passports from the country where Mr Os 
passport had been issued. 
The investigator explained the limitations of our service in terms of making awards for 
distress and inconvenience, notably that such payments could only be awarded under our 
rules to eligible complainants. In this matter Company IL was the eligible complainant, not 
Mr O. 
The investigator also didnt agree with Mr O that he should be paid the £100 incentive for 
opening the account, because the account had not in fact been opened. 
Mr O strongly disagreed with the investigators view and raised several questions to 
understand what exactly it was about Platform Ts systems and his passport which meant 
the document could not be verified. Our investigator explained that such information would 
be commercially sensitive and reassured Mr O that it was not only the country his passport 
came from that could not be verified by this particular system, but this affected other 
countries as well. The investigator also explained that our service was not the regulator, so it 
was not for us to review or monitor businesss processes, systems or controls. 
As our investigator could not reach a resolution, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the available submissions and evidence from both parties I have reached 
the same conclusions as those reached by our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
 
Mr O largely disagrees with the investigators conclusions because he wishes to understand 
exactly what criteria and parameters are used by Platform Ts software to verify passports, 
and why his passport in particular could not be verified. Mr O also wished to know 
specifically which other passports are unverifiable and why, in addition to knowing what the 
new software would do differently. I understand Mr O is very frustrated with what has happened, and Im aware he has 
repeatedly asked for the information Ive summarised above. However, as our investigator 
explained, this service is set up to resolve complaints on the basis of what is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of a case. So it is not to investigate a businesss 
processes, systems or controls. It follows that its not the role of this service to interfere with 
how a business chooses to meet their regulatory obligations. And so were unable to fine or 
punish businesses. These are all matters for the financial regulator to consider. Because of 
this, I dont think there is any need to look further into the workings of the system that was 
being used by Platform T to verify Mr Os passport. My focus here is to consider whether 
Mr O has been treated fairly in the circumstances of applying for a business bank account on 
behalf of Company IL. 
Mr O has described that he felt discriminated against, mainly because his passport was not 
able to be verified. I am sorry to read Mr O feels this way, and I can understand how he 
would have been left with a poor impression by Platform T given they were not entirely clear 
with him through the course of the application process  which was disappointing to see. 
When deciding what is a fair and reasonable resolution to a complaint, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service will take into account any relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and (where appropriate) what is considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In this instance, given Mr Os concerns about discrimination relate to his nationality, the 
relevant legislation would be the Equality Act 2010. In light of the remit this office has  
which Ive summarised above  it should be made clear that this office is not a court, so it 
doesnt have the power to determine whether a law has been breached. That is for the 
courts to decide. 
However, as explained, our office can take into account any relevant law when deciding 
whether a business has treated a customer fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of 
the individual case. This means, while being mindful of the Equality Act 2010, in Mr Os case 
Ive looked to see if ClearBank treated Mr O fairly and reasonably when he sought to open a 
business bank account with them. 
ClearBank (and Platform T) acknowledge there were errors in the information they gave 
Mr O about Company ILs application as it was not always made clear to Mr O why the 
application was not progressing or being approved. 
Eventually, however, it does become clear that Company ILs application was not in fact 
rejected (as suggested at one point), rather it was paused given Mr O had been unable to 
provide acceptable identification and proof of address. Unfortunately Mr O did not have any 
other identification to satisfy the proof of identity requirement, nor was he able to provide any 
proof of address documentation for his personal address as the paperwork for that property 
was in someone elses name. And because of this Mr O took the decision to withdraw the 
application, with the intention that a different company director would look to open the 
account instead. 
I understand Mr Os frustration with Platform Ts system being unable to verify his passport, 
however, setting aside that Mr O was also unable to provide adequate proof of address, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest Mr O was being discriminated against or treated any differently 
to other customers whose documents would also have to be verified in the same way. 
Platform T is aware of the limitations of their current system, and they are introducing new 
technology to help them. And in the meantime they have explained other forms of 
identification can be used instead. As mentioned earlier, ClearBank (through Platform T) are required to ensure they meet their 
regulatory and legal obligations to ensure they know their customers. Mr O understands this 
is important and I note that he does not have an issue with this. 
While the limitations of Platform Ts current systems were no doubt frustrating for Mr O, I 
think it was fair for ClearBank to ensure they had satisfied their obligations. So if it was not 
possible to verify Mr Os passport, I dont think it was unreasonable to have asked for a 
different form of identification. 
I realise Mr O is seeking a higher compensatory amount than that offered by ClearBank, but 
as our investigator explained, under the rules we must follow, our service can only make 
awards to eligible complainants. In this case, Company IL is the eligible complainant and as 
a legal entity, I think its fair to say Company IL is unable to suffer distress, so I am unable to 
make an award of this kind to Company IL. Ive considered the inconvenience to Company 
IL being unable to use a business bank account at this time, but as Ive already noted, 
ClearBank was required to ensure they met their regulatory and legal obligations when 
setting up the account, so I dont think it was unfair of them to request relevant 
documentation to satisfy their checks.
The £100 offered to Mr O is something ClearBank offered directly to Mr O due to how he 
was left feeling about what happened, however as Mr O is not an eligible complainant under 
our rules, I am unable to say whether the offer of £100 is fair or not. 
I am sure my findings will be disappointing to Mr O, and they are not meant to disregard or 
ignore the clear frustration and upset caused to him, but I hope they are able to offer Mr O 
some reassurance that from the submissions Ive seen, while I think Platform T, and by 
extension ClearBank, could have better communicated with him about Company ILs 
application, I have not seen anything to suggest that he or his business were treated any 
differently to other customers applying for a business bank account. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O, on Company 
ILs behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman