DRN-3541458
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) sold his account and 
therefore his personal information to a third party, when it had no right to do so. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Creation, the account was taken out in 2012 and was 
used regularly until around 2015. After this date Mr B was unable to make the minimum 
payments each month and instead made a monthly payment of £1 towards the balance.
In February 2016 Creation sold the account to another business that for the purpose of this 
decision Ill call L. L sent Mr B a Notice of Assignment letter (NOA) on 6 April 2016 
confirming it now owned the account and the outstanding balance was now owed to them.
In October 2021 Mr B complained to Creation as he didnt think they had the right to sell his 
account on without his permission. He asked Creation to provide him with documentary 
evidence to show otherwise. Creation didnt respond to Mr B and so he brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. When doing so he told us he would like 
Creation to pay him £50,000 compensation under the Data Protection Act for illegally 
releasing his private data to L. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint in summary she said that although she 
hadnt seen the actual credit agreement between Mr B and Creation, she was satisfied one 
had existed as Mr B had been in receipt of and used the card for a substantial period of time. 
She went on to say that most credit agreements contain a term that allows the lender to sell 
the account on to a third party, and it was more likely than not that the agreement had 
contained such a term. As an example, she referred to terms and conditions for a more 
recent credit card account from Creation that contained a term like this. Based on this she 
was satisfied that Creation had been entitled to sell Mr Bs account on. But she felt that 
Creation should have responded to Mr Bs request to see the terms and conditions and his 
credit agreement so he could satisfy himself this had been allowed. For this she asked 
creation to pay Mr B £100 in compensation.
Creation responded accepting the investigators findings and provided a generic copy of the 
terms and conditions that related to Mr Bs account. They said they issued a final response 
letter to Mr B two days after the investigator issued her findings. They maintained they had 
acted in line with their processes in selling Mr Bs account to L. But accepted they should 
have provided information to Mr B when he asked and agreed to the £100 compensation 
because of this.
Mr B disagreed, he didnt agree that the generic terms and conditions apply to him and feels 
only a signed credit agreement should count as evidence that Creation was entitled to sell 
his account on. He says as Creation arent able to provide this, they havent shown they 
were entitled to sell the account and therefore transfer or sell his private data. As such he 
feels that Creation has breached the Data Protection Act 2018 and the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, so feels they should pay him £50,000 as he has requested.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Having done so I have to tell Mr B that Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why, but in doing so Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
The main point for me to decide here is if Creation was entitled to sell Mr Bs account to L, to 
do this, I need to establish two things:
Was there a credit agreement in place between Creation and Mr B; and if yes,
Did that agreement allow for Creation to reassign or sell the account on
Was there a credit agreement in place
There is no dispute that Mr B had and used the credit card that the agreement relates to. He 
made regular payments to Creation towards the outstanding balance of the card up until it 
was sold to L in 2016. So, Im satisfied that on balance of probabilities, its more likely than 
not that the agreement existed.
Creation has provided Mr B and this service with a generic copy of the terms and conditions 
that related to his account at the time. They have not provided a copy of the original signed 
agreement, but due to the passage of time since the account was opened, I dont think thats 
unreasonable, and as explained above Im satisfied the agreement existed.
Did the agreement allow the account to be reassigned
I have looked at the generic terms and conditions, relating to Mr Bs account, and supplied 
by Creation to establish this. For reasons Ive already explained above I am satisfied that 
these are relevant here.
Under section 22 Assignment the terms and conditions state:
We may assign or transfer our rights and obligations under this Agreement provided 
that this does not adversely affect your rights under this Agreement. You may not 
assign or transfer your rights or obligations under this Agreement.
In other words, this means Creation had the right under this contract to sell Mr Bs account 
on to a third party. There are rules around this that Creation have to follow, they are known 
as the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) and can be found on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys website.
The relevant rule here is CONC 6.5.2 which lays out that when a lender, in this case 
Creation, assigns their rights to a third party it must be a firm. The word firm here means it must be a regulated business, which L is. 
It goes on to say that the firm, (L) must arrange for a NOA to be given to the customer as 
soon as is reasonably possible. I have seen evidence that L sent a NOA to Mr B in April of 
2016, following the account being purchased in February 2016.
Based on this Im satisfied that Creation were entitled to sell Mr Bs account on to L, and 
when they did, they followed the appropriate rules to do so. As such, I cant reasonably say 
they shouldnt have shared Mr Bs personal data with L. So, it follows I wont be asking 
Creation to pay compensation for this as Mr B has requested.
However, I do agree that Creation should have provided a copy of the terms and conditions 
to Mr B when he requested them so he could understand what had happened and what his 
rights were under the agreement. And so, I think Creation should pay Mr B £100 for the 
delay in doing this.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Creation can do for him.
Putting things right
Creation should pay Mr B £100 for the delay in providing him with a copy of the terms and 
conditions that relate to the account he held with them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
Creation Financial Service Limited and now require it to put things right as laid out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman