DRN-4020602
The complaint
E, a limited company, has complained about the settlement offered by Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited for a business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected 
by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
E hires wedding equipment such as chair covers, table centre pieces and other props. These 
are displayed in a showroom in the insured premises. In a different part of its premises in 
November 2019 it opened a bridal shop selling wedding dresses and wedding items. 
Customers attend by appointment. Some of Es business comes from wedding fayres held at 
other premises. It had a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox. 
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority pursued a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different 
types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021 (The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch 
Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1). 
E made a claim to Hiscox for its business interruption losses after its business was impacted 
during three periods of lockdown. Hiscox said cover was available for the bridal shop and 
showroom having to close but not for other elements of its business. It said there was no 
cover for losses relating to general wedding planning services or hire contracts agreed over 
the phone, online or away from the premises e.g. at wedding fayres as that part of the 
business wasnt required to close under government restrictions. It thought that part of the 
business had been impacted by the cancellation of weddings and events, social distancing 
guidelines and restrictions on the movement and gathering of people as opposed to E being 
unable to use its premises due to it being required to close under government regulations.
E disputed this. It said all of its business had been impacted by the lockdowns as during 
those times people arranging weddings werent allowed to come to the showroom to see its 
stock and discuss their requirements. E said it couldnt provide Hiscox with information about 
the split in revenue streams because it was all one business. 
In July 2022 Hiscox made an interim payment of £2,500 based on its own calculation of the 
split in Es business. 
As E was unhappy with this, it brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Hiscox had treated E unfairly. 
As E didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from Es submissions that the pandemic has had a significant financial impact on 
Es business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when settling the claim. 
The relevant part of the policy is set out below:
We will cover you for your financial losses , resulting solely and directly from an 
interruption to your activities caused by: 

Your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
during the period of insurance following:

An occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak of which 
must be notified to the local authority
The insured premises include the showroom and the bridal shop. However, other locations  
such as those that held wedding fayres  are not included in this definition.
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Es was 
considered as part of the FCA test case. The Supreme Court said at paragraph 129 of its 
judgment:
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 do not cover all business interruption due to 
restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the policyholders inability 
to use the business premises due to such restrictions.
The Supreme Court went on to say, at paragraph 136 of the judgment:  an inability of use 
has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. The court did also make it 
clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to 
use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. 
In this case there were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of 
Covid-19 and Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So the question is whether or not E suffered 
an ability to use the whole or part of its premises.
The restrictions were set out in the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) 
Regulations 2020. They said that businesses not listed in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 
Regulations and offering goods for sale or hire in a shop should cease to carry on that 
business other than online, by phone or post. The sale or hire of wedding-related goods was 
not listed in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the Regulations. So shops offering the sale or hire of 
these goods were required to close. Im not aware of any other restrictions that were directed 
at Es premises apart from those mentioned in the Regulations above and similar regulations 
in later lockdowns.
E says its customers make appointments to visit its bridal shop and showroom so that they 
can try on wedding dresses and see displays in the showroom of the various items available 
for hire. I can understand that because of the nature of Es business most customers would 
prefer to visit in person rather than ordering online. Hiscox said:
The cover that is afforded on your business interruption policy includes those services that 
were directly impacted by an inability to use your business premises for in person retail 
sales. Our determination is that this would include bridal dress sales completed in person at 
the insured premises along with the sale/hire of goods where the sales are completed in 
person at the premises and are not being offered within a venue styling/design package.
Non-essential shops were required to close but not all businesses. I think it was reasonable 
for Hiscox to take the approach that there was no cover under the policy for losses arising 
from goods or services agreed over the phone, online or away from the insured premises 
such as at a wedding fayre. I think the profit from this side of the business would have been 
impacted by the restrictions on the public generally and on gatherings such as weddings 
rather than an inability to use the premises as required by the policy. I dont think Hiscox has 
treated E unfairly in not covering all of the losses it suffered as a result of the pandemic.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman