DRN-2952663
The complaint
Mr R has complained about how Santander UK Plc has dealt with his interest only mortgage 
he held with it and other issues relating to the service it provided
What happened
Mr R had an interest only mortgage for a Buy-to-let property with Santander.
He says on 8 November 2019 he received a letter from Santander stating that the term on 
his interest only mortgage had expired, and the remaining balance was required in full. But   
Mr R says this was the first time he was made aware of this and so it was very distressing to 
receive such a letter.
Mr R contacted Santander to renew the term on his interest only mortgage, but Santander 
said it couldnt offer Mr R the option to renew his term as their interest only mortgage term 
extensions are only offered to existing customers up to the age of 70. Mr R felt this was 
discriminatory on the ground of his age. Because of this, Mr R decided to go with another 
mortgage provider, and he redeemed his mortgage on 31 March 2021. 
However, upon settlement Santanders mortgage centre didnt acknowledge receipt of       
Mr Rs balance and charged Mr R a £225 account fee to close his mortgage account. Mr R 
was dissatisfied with this, he was a loyal customer and felt it wasnt his decision not to 
continue with Santander, as such the account fee should have been waived. So, he would 
like Santander to refund the account fee, pay £150 he incurred in costs and pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into the complaint. 
However, he said he couldnt consider Santanders decision not to renew the term on Mr Rs 
mortgage due to its lending criteria. Or the correspondence he had received advising him the 
mortgage term had expired and requesting him to pay the remaining balance. He said a final 
response letter had been issued on 21 November 2019 addressing these points, and this 
letter stated Mr R had six months to refer his complaint to our service, if he didnt do so in 
that time frame, Santander wouldnt consent to us looking into the complaint. Mr R didnt 
raise his complaint with our service until 25 July 2020. As such these issues were referred to 
our service out of time. 
However, our investigator did look into Mr Rs points relating to Santander not 
acknowledging receipt of Mr Rs funds when he settled the outstanding balance on his 
mortgage. And the fact he was charged a closing fee of £225.He could consider these points 
as they were referred to our service in time. However, our investigator didnt recommend that 
these points be upheld. Mr R remained unhappy, so he asked for his complaint to be passed 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. But first I will address the reasons why we cant consider aspects of Mr Rs 
complaint. 
Jurisdiction 
Our rules say that, without business consent, I cant consider a complaint which is referred to 
this service more than six months after the date the business sends its final response letter 
to their customer. This rule is called Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1). It can be found in 
the regulators handbook of rules and guidance (available on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) website).
Santander issued a final response on 21 November 2019, which addressed Mr Rs 
complaint regarding Santanders decision not to extend Mr Rs mortgage term and the 
correspondence it issued in relation to Mr Rs mortgage term expiring. This letter contained 
the appropriate information to make Mr R aware that he could refer his complaint to our 
service but had to do so within six months of the date of that letter, if he did not it said 
Santander wouldnt consent to us looking into the complaint. So, Mr Rs complaint needed to 
be referred to our service by 21 June 2020. Mr R brought his complaint to our service on    
25 July 2020, so he referred his complaint outside the six-month time limit.
I can help with complaints which are referred outside of the usual time limits where Im 
satisfied this was due to exceptional circumstances. So, Ive carefully considered if there 
was a reason which prevented Mr R bringing the complaint to our service. 
I can see during that period of time Mr R was having a very difficult time. His late wife had 
been diagnosed with Parkinsons disease and it was around the time the pandemic started. 
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge this and while Mr R has my sympathy, and Im very sorry 
to hear about these issues, I dont think what has happened prevented him from raising his 
concerns at an earlier stage. I say that because I havent seen evidence to lead me to fairly 
conclude that he wasnt able to handle his day to day affairs. And I can see he was still 
corresponding with Santander. So, I think its likely Mr R, a family member or representative 
on his behalf, couldve made a phone call or sent a short email/letter to our service, which 
wouldve been enough to start his complaint. So overall, while he has my sympathy, 
unfortunately, I dont consider this to be exceptional circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr R feels strongly that Santander didnt treat him fairly in respect to its 
decision not to extend his mortgage term, but I am unable to consider this aspect of his 
complaint as it was brought to our service out of time.
Closing of the account
Mr R is unhappy that Santander didnt notify him that the money had been received when he 
redeemed his mortgage. Having reviewed the evidence on file, I can see that on 9 April 2020 
Santander sent a letter to Mr Rs solicitors stating it had received his payment and that it had 
been credited to his mortgage account on 31 March 2020. As such, I am satisfied that 
Santander did notify Mr Rs solicitors. And while Mr R would have liked a personal 
acknowledgment, I cant say Santander acted unfairly by following its usual process. 
When Mr R redeemed his mortgage, he was charged a mortgage administration fee of £225. 
In 2007 Mr R received a mortgage conversion offer and this included terms and conditions 
Mr R agreed to. It explained the following under Section 8:
 What fees must you pay?: A Mortgage Administration fee (current fee) for providing, maintaining and closing your 
mortgage is payable at the end of your mortgage. The amount we charge you will not 
exceed this amount plus the annual increase of RPI calculated to the end of your mortgage. 
The amount shown was £225.
Therefore, as this was part of the mortgage agreement with Santander, I think its 
reasonable to suggest Mr R was aware of the MAF at the outset and as such I dont think 
Santander acted unfairly by charging this fee. Because of this, I wont be asking Santander 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman