DRN-2737825
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express refused to give him promotional points when he opened a credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr H says he opened an AESEL credit card account in November 2019 that advertised 
20,000 promotional points when £3,000 was spent on the account. He says AESEL refused 
to award him the points and said he wasnt eligible as he held an AESEL account in the 
previous two years. Mr H says that is a sharp practice and AESEL should have told him that 
when he completed the application.
AESEL says its promotional offer terms and conditions make clear that the promotional 
points are not available if an account has been open in the previous two years. It says Mr H 
had another account up to August 2019 and so wasnt eligible for the points. It also says it 
makes that information clear during the application process.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator looked at AESELs application process and could see the points eligibility 
section clearly stated the criteria and the relevance of a previous account in the two-year 
period. The investigator thought it unlikely the process would have changed since 2019 and 
so didnt think AESEL made a mistake. He also thought it up to Mr H to check his eligibility.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and questions why the investigator would accept what AESEL 
says, that the information in the online process hasnt changed since 2019. He maintains he 
didnt see the eligibility information and says the contract became unfair. Mr H would like the 
points and says if it the eligibility criteria had been made clear then he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that AESEL has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mr H applied for the AESEL credit card in November 2019 and that it was 
his responsibility to check if the account met his needs and if he met the eligibility criteria. I 
have looked carefully at AESELs application process and at the information about the 2019 
eligibility criteria. Having done so Im satisfied that AESEL made clear during the online 
process what the eligibility criteria was for the promotional points. Im also satisfied its up to 
AESEL to decide what its policy is on such matters and that its clear the eligibility criteria 
hasnt changed since the application in November 2019.
I appreciate Mr H says he didnt notice the eligibility criteria and had he done so then he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the application. So, I think it clear that Mr H wished to take 
advantage of the promotional points and so I think in those circumstances Mr H ought to 
have checked the eligibility criteria before opening the account. I dont think AESEL could 
have known the reason why Mr H opened the account and I also think its up to AESEL to 
decide where it records the eligibility criteria. We are not AESELs regulator and so its not 
my role to comment on its business practices, but I have made clear I think on balance the 
eligibility criteria was clearly displayed within the online application.
Overall, Im satisfied that AESEL was entitled in line with the agreed account and offer 
eligibility terms and conditions to conclude Mr H wasnt entitled to the promotional points. It 
follows that I cant fairly order AESEL to pay Mr H the points as he would like and its not our 
role to tell it where eligibility information is displayed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman