DRN-3402196
The complaint
Mr B complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited failed to provide him with 
information about the withholding tax which was later applied to his investments. He says 
this has caused him financial loss.
What happened
Between May 2020 and May 2021, Mr B purchased and sold a number of shares in a 
company Ill refer to as C through his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). C was listed 
on the London Stock Exchange but was a company domiciled abroad. Sometime later, Mr B 
found the dividends were less than he was expecting, which was due to the relevant tax 
authority making deductions for withholding tax. 
Mr B complained to Interactive saying:
Itd failed in its duty to advise him that as it was providing an execution only service it 
wouldn't reclaim this tax on his behalf. And if hed have known this, he wouldnt have 
invested as he did.
Interactive shouldve made it clear at the quote and deal stage that C was a foreign 
company. And because of Cs status Interactive were fully aware he (Mr B) would 
never receive the full benefits of his dividends.
He would like to be compensated and would also like to see this situation being 
prevented in the future. He considers if Interactives regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), can mandate what can and can't be held in a SIPP, then it can 
surely also mandate that investors be informed in advance they will not receive full 
dividends. Or even, at the very least, make firms tell clients when a company they 
are buying shares in isnt domiciled in the UK.
Interactive rejected Mr Bs complaint. It said as an execution only service, it simply provides 
the platform to trade in investments. And it does not provide any sort of financial advice. 
Interactive says Mr B was responsible for conducting his own research prior to purchasing 
his investments including about where the company was based and any relevant tax 
implications of this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, he considered 
Interactive had provided Mr B with clear, fair, and not misleading information about its terms 
of service. 
Mr B disagreed. In particular, he said as Interactives latest terms and conditions address the 
issue of withholding tax, the previous version should also have done so. He maintained 
Interactive shouldve done more to make him aware of the withholding tax situation. He also 
considers the Financial Ombudsman Service should do more to make Interactive change its 
business practices to better protect clients like himself. Mr B asked for the matter to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr B has strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
arguments to support his case which I can confirm Ive read and carefully considered. 
However, I trust Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point 
raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
As our investigator said, Mr Bs investments are held in a pooled nominee account, which 
means only the SIPP administrator (Interactive) and not the beneficiary of the account (Mr B) 
can reclaim the withholding tax. But as an execution only provider this isnt a service 
Interactive provides for its clients. 
At the time Mr B made his trades, the terms of the SIPP said: We [Interactive] are not 
responsible for giving, and shall not be deemed to have given, any legal, financial, 
investment, tax or any other advice in connection with your SIPP or any underlying 
investments or decisions associated with it. 
Under the heading Responsibility for investment decisions, Interactive said it was providing 
an execution only service and that: You take full responsibility for the suitability and 
appropriateness of the investment decisions that you make and for the ongoing 
management of those investments. Interactive also pointed out in its terms that the SIPP 
investments may be pooled with those investments of other SIPP clients. 
By opening an execution only trading account under the conditions set out above, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware he was responsible 
for carrying out his own research before placing a trade. And he would have, or could have, 
learnt about the status of C before deciding to invest and what this may mean in terms of 
deductions to any subsequent dividends he was due. This is all information he was able to 
subsequently find out and I cant see any reason why this could not have been done prior to 
placing his trades. 
I note later versions of Interactives SIPP terms and conditions specifically address the point 
of withholding tax. But as Ive said, the previous version which Mr B had access to at the 
time of his investment decisions make it clear that: [Interactive] are not responsible for 
givingany legal, financial, investment, tax or any other advice in connection with your SIPP 
or any underlying investments or decisions associated with it.
All in all, Im satisfied the terms and conditions applicable at the time of Mr Bs trades, were 
clear, fair and not misleading such that he could make an informed choice about how he 
wanted to proceed with his investments. And these terms were what Mr B had agreed to 
when he opened his account prior to placing his trades in C. So, I dont think Interactive has 
acted unreasonably or unfairly in his case. 
Mr B says Interactive should change its processes so that clients like him dont pay tax 
through their SIPP accounts when investing as he did. But as Mr B noted himself, the FCA 
and not this service, is responsible for the regulation of financial businesses. Further, 
Interactive makes a commercial decision about the terms it offers the SIPP accounts, 
including how best to meet its regulatory and business requirements. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to say that Interactive should change its terms, processes, or its business 
practices, when these have been designed to meet with its particular business needs.So, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman