DRN-3541368
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly registered a default on his credit file 
following missed loan payments.
What happened
Mr I says he spoke to Barclays in May 2021 about setting up a short-term repayment plan on 
his two loans. He says he thought Barclays would set up the payment arrangements of £50 
on each loan per month but payments were not made. Mr I says there has been a failure in 
communication and had he known about the potential default, would have made the 
payments. He says he didnt receive all of the letters Barclays says it sent him and would like 
the default removed. Mr I says the default will have a significant impact on his ability to re-
mortgage his property.
Barclays says it hasnt made a mistake and says Mr I spoke to it on 5 May 2021 to set up the 
repayment plans. It says it made clear that Mr I would need to make the payments and set 
up a Standing Order (SO) from his bank. It also says Mr Is accounts were close to default at 
that stage and it made clear that if the payments were not made then the accounts would 
default. Barclays says payments were not made and it sent a Notice of Default to Mr I and 
later defaulted the account. Barclays accepts it gave misleading information about a 
separate issue during a telephone call on 14 July 2021 about a third-party collection 
business. It has apologised for that and offered Mr I £150 compensation. Barclays says one 
loan was defaulted as a notice hadnt been sent to Mr I on the other.
Mr I had brought his complaint to us and maintains he thought Barclays would arrange the 
payments and says the letters arrived too late for him to take action. He questions why one 
loan was defaulted but not the other. Our investigator didnt uphold the main part of the 
complaint and thought Barclays had been clear during the call in May 2021. The investigator 
thought Barclays told Mr I he needed to make the payments and set them up to which Mr I 
said, I understand. The investigator also thought Barclays explained the consequences of 
missed payments and wrote to Mr I about the account. The investigator thought the 
compensation offer fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.
Mr I doesnt accept that view and in summary says the default information should have been 
put in writing to him, the paperwork was confusing and says he was misled by the process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint about the default. I appreciate Mr I will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Barclays records and listened to the call between the parties on 5 
May 2021. I can see that Mr I had been sent a default notice in April 2021 and so I think it 
ought to have been reasonably clear before the May 2021 call that there was a risk that Mr 
Is loans would default. I can also see that the April default notice made clear the 
implications of a default and the potential impact on Mr Is credit file.
Im satisfied that Barclays tried to help Mr I during the May 2021 call by setting up the short-
term plan. And that it made clear to Mr I what would happen if the payments were not made 
as well as the impact on his credit file. At the end of the call Im satisfied that Barclays clearly 
told Mr I that he needed to make sure the payments were made and that he needed to set 
up a SO. Mr I replied that he understood and ended the call by saying  1 June I will set up a 
SO. So, I dont think there can be any confusion about that call and am satisfied that Mr I 
must have known he needed to set up the SO and make sure the payments were made. Im 
also satisfied that these were Mr Is loans and it was his responsibility to make the payments 
and at no stage did Barclays suggest that it would take responsibility for setting up the SOs.
I appreciate that Mr I wanted to avoid a default being registered on his credit file so I would 
reasonably have expected him to have set up the SO or at least monitor the account to 
ensure the payments were made. I can see Barclays wrote to Mr I on 6 May 2021 telling him 
that he needed to make the payments as agreed and told him the conduct of his account 
would be sent to the Credit Reference Agencies. I think that letter ought to have reminded 
Mr I to set up the SOs. I also appreciate Mr I says that letter ought to have explained in 
more detail the implications of missing a payment. But by that stage Im satisfied Mr I had 
received one default notice that did explain that and had been given the same information 
during the 5 May 2021 call. I dont think the letters from Barclays were inconsistent or 
confusing but repeatedly told Mr I that payments were required and the implications if they 
were not made.
I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr I again on 23 May 2021 which I accept is likely to have 
been a standard arrears letter. But I think that letter ought to have prompted Mr I into either 
setting up the SO or making a payment in the following days.
I can also see that Barclays wrote to Mr I on 3 June 2021 making clear the possibility of a 
default and its implications. I find that as the agreement was broken that Barclays was 
entitled to conclude the relationship between it and Mr I had broken down and default the 
account. I can see that Barclays didnt send Mr I a default notice on one loan which is the 
reason only one loan defaulted.
I accept that Mr I was given conflicting information during a telephone call between him and 
Barclays about the involvement of a third part collection business. I dont think that part of 
the complaint is linked to the main complaint and am satisfied Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer of £150. I accept that is not the main part of the complaint 
here and think the offer fairly reflects what I think was the limited impact of that mistake. It is 
of course up to Mr I to decide if he wishes to accept it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays made clear to Mr I that he needed to set up a payment 
method to pay the agreed repayments and as he didnt do so, that it was reasonably entitled 
to default the loan account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 David Singh
Ombudsman