DRN-3873893
The complaint
Mr R, who operated as a sole trader, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him incorrect 
information about his personal liability for his Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr R telephoned Lloyds about his BBL, which he had missed payments 
towards and so which was in a position of arrears at that time, and spoke with one of Lloyds 
agents, who indicated to Mr R that because his business had ceased trading, he wouldnt be 
held personally liable for the outstanding BBL balance. 
But Mr R was later contacted by a third-party agency who were looking to recover the BBL 
balance on Lloyds behalf and who explained to Mr R that, contrary to what hed been told, 
he was personally liable for the BBL. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Rs complaint. They accepted that Mr R had been given incorrect 
information about his personal liability for the BBL, and they apologised to Mr R for this and 
made a payment of £40 to him as compensation for any upset or inconvenience this may 
have caused. 
However, Lloyds didnt feel that Mr R being given this incorrect information had a material 
impact on the eventual outcome  which was that Mr Rs BBL was defaulted for non-
payment  and so they didnt uphold that aspect of his complaint. Mr R wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.   
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Lloyds had 
issued to Mr Rs complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds dont dispute that their agent gave Mr R incorrect information about his liability for the 
BBL during the 12 August 2021 phone call. What is in dispute here is whether Mr R being 
given this incorrect information had a tangible bearing on what subsequently took place.
Mr R maintains that had it been confirmed to him on 12 August 2021 that he was personally 
liable for the BBL, he would have borrowed money from friends and family to pay the 
continuing BBL payments which would have meant the loan wouldnt have been defaulted 
for non-payment by Lloyds as it later was. 
Only Mr R will know for certain whether that would have been the case. But, from in impartial 
perspective, Im not convinced it can reasonably be considered as being more likely than not 
that Mr R would have been able to meet the ongoing BBL payments as he contends.
One reason I say this is because I dont feel it can be guaranteed that Mr R would have been 
able to borrow the money from friends and family as he contends. Additionally, given that the 
BBL was already three payments in arrears at the time of the 12 August phone call, it feels 
notable to me that Mr R hadnt borrowed money from friends and family previously  so that 
no payments on the BBL were missed and so that the loan never fell into arrears  which I 
feel Mr R might reasonably have done, had the option to borrow money from friends and 
family been available to him.
Im also not convinced that the one instance of Mr R being given incorrect information by 
Lloyds agent, over-rides the several prior instances of Mr R being given the correct 
information about his personal liability in regard to the BBL, such as was provided to Mr R 
within the original BBL loan agreement. And I also feel that Mr R must bear some 
responsibility, as a business owner, to have reasonably understood the nature of the BBL 
agreement hed entered into, including in regard to his own liability should he have been 
unable to repay the loan, as was unfortunately ultimately the case.
Another notable point that I feel must be considered is that, as explained, the BBL was 
already in a position of arrears. This means that, to fully mitigate against the possibility of the 
loan being defaulted by Lloyds for non-payment, Mr R would have needed to have not only 
paid the ongoing scheduled payments that were becoming due, but also cleared the three 
months of arrears that had accrued on the account at that time. This is because I dont feel 
that it would have been unreasonable for Lloyds to have potentially defaulted the account if 
those arrears werent cleared by Mr R within a reasonable timeframe, even if ongoing 
monthly payments were being made so that the arrears werent increasing.
Mr R feels that Lloyds have admitted their error by paying £40 compensation to him. But this 
compensation amount was for the impact of any distress or inconvenience caused by Lloyds 
provision of incorrect information only. This seems like a fair compensation amount to me for 
the impact of any distress or inconvenience caused by that specific error. And Im in 
agreement with Lloyds that no further action beyond this payment of £40 is necessary here, 
because I dont feel that the act of Mr R being given that incorrect information has the weight 
of consequence that Mr R contends  for the reasons explained above.   
Ultimately, having considered all the information available to me on this complaint, I dont 
feel that it is more likely than not  had Mr R not been given the incorrect information by 
Lloyds  that he would have been able to recover the position of the BBL so as to avoid the 
loan being defaulted for non-payment, as he believes would have been the case. 
Instead, I feel that Mr Rs BBL would still most likely have defaulted for non-payment. And 
because of this, I dont feel that Lloyds should fairly be instructed to restore the BBL to the 
position it was at the time of the 12 August call as Mr R would like.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but I hope hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman