DRN-1829513
The complaint
Mr S complains about the amount hes been charged by Lex Autolease Ltd for damage to a 
car that had been supplied to him under a lease agreement.
What happened
Mr S returned his car at the end of a lease agreement on 1 October 2019. Following an 
inspection on 2 October 2019 Mr S was sent an invoice for £628.51 because there was 
damage to the carpet in the drivers footwell. 
Mr S didnt agree that this was chargeable and stated that it was fair wear and tear in a call 
to Lex on 9 October 2019. Lex didnt agree but offered to reduce the charge by 50%.
Mr S offered to pay £100 in an email on the 17 October 2019 and he complained to Lex in a 
telephone call on the 21 October 2019. 
On 12 November 2019 Lex didnt uphold the complaint and felt that the reduction of 50% 
was fair so Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and they thought that Lex hadnt done anything 
wrong. They thought the offer to reduce the charge by 50% was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. They asked Lex to reinstate that offer which had been withdrawn and Lex 
agreed. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S signed a lease agreement in August 2016. The terms of the agreement set out at 
clause 9, 
If the returned goods are not in reasonable condition for their age and mileage, you 
must also immediately pay us the cost of putting them in that condition or (if we 
choose) the reduction in their value caused by them not being in reasonable 
condition.
It isnt disputed that there is a hole in the carpet. Mr S feels that this is fair wear and tear and 
that the car should have been provided with mats to prevent this problem. It appears that 
there were mats when the car was collected which it why the damage wasnt identified and 
raised with Mr S on collection. I cant say that Lex were required to provide mats as I dont 
think this would be reasonable.
Looking at the damage I think that it goes beyond fair wear and tear. There is a hole in the 
carpet which is completely worn through. I consider it to be clear from the photos in the 
report that the damage is more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and 
tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines on fair 
wear and tear.
Lex initially charged Mr S £628.51 for the estimated cost of the replacement carpet. Mr S 
has pointed out that in Lexs tariff of charges a carpet repair is costed at £31. Lex has 
responded out that the damage is such that a repair is not possible, and a replacement is 
required and so the costs are outside that tariff. I agree that the damage to the carpet is such 
that a replacement is required and so the repair cost is not applicable.
Mr S has said that he had returned the car with fewer miles than agreed so the increased 
value should offset the damage charge. In addition, the car went for auction without any 
repair and so it isnt fair to chare for this. I consider that Mr S had accepted in the agreement 
that Lex could charge him for its reasonable estimate of the reduction in the cars value 
because of any damage thats not fair wear and tear. And so, I find that its reasonable for it 
to charge him for the damage to the carpet as the car lost that value at auction. I agree with 
the investigator that the mileage is a separate matter and the terms of the agreement are 
clear.
Mr S wouldve known  or ought reasonably to have known  from the agreement that he 
was responsible for any damage that wasnt fair wear and tear. And he couldve had the car 
inspected and repaired before it was collected from him. 
Lex has agreed to the investigators recommendation that it should re-instate the offer of a 
50% reduction for the carpet. I agree that this is fair and reasonable as the initial charge 
appeared to be excessive and it seems unlikely that the car was reduced in value by this 
amount because of the hole in the carpet.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Lex to reduce the 
amount that its charged Mr S damage to the car to £314.25. But Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any other action in response to Mr Ss 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
7 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman