DRN-2726547
The complaint
Mr K complains about the information Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) recorded 
after it declined to cover damage caused to his property. 
What happened
Mr K held a household insurance policy, which was underwritten by RSA. In January 2020 
he contacted RSA after his property sustained damage following a storm. He reported the 
damage and queried whether he could make a claim under his policy. 
RSA logged Mr Ks enquiry as a claim and informed him that it wouldnt cover the damage 
based on the information hed provided. So, Mr K repaired his property at his own expense 
and withdrew his claim enquiry. He also decided to cancel his policy and change insurers. 
After Mr K cancelled his policy, he received a pro rata refund of the premiums hed already 
paid RSA. He subsequently found out that RSA had recorded a withdrawn claim on the 
Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database with a value of £100, which was 
compensation that hed received following a previous complaint. 
Mr K disputed the information recorded on the CUE database and complained to RSA. He 
said he hadnt made a claim and wanted RSA to correct the entry on the CUE database.
When RSA responded to Mr Ks complaint it didnt uphold it. It said all enquiries about a 
potential claim are logged whether a policyholder decides to pursue the claim. It also 
explained that the wording on the CUE database was correct as Mr K had withdrawn his 
claim. It acknowledged the database showed a value of £100 and said it would look into 
whether it could remove that information. It also offered to compensate Mr K £50 as 
recognition of the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had dealt with his concerns, Mr K referred his complaint to 
our service. An investigator looked into what had happened. But, while he empathised with 
Mr K, he didnt recommend upholding this complaint. He didnt think RSA had done anything 
wrong in reporting that Mr K had withdrawn a claim about storm damage on the CUE 
database. And he thought that the compensation RSA had already offered was appropriate 
and fair. But Mr K rejected our investigators view of his complaint and requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr K and RSA for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive 
read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a 
point that Mr K or RSA have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will 
focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal 
nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr K experienced here. I know he feels very strongly 
about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons why hes brought his complaint to our 
service. But, while I sympathise with Mr K, the issue that I must determine is whether I think 
RSA made a mistake, or treated him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. In 
thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
Mr K doesnt dispute that he contacted RSA in January 2020 to enquire whether recent 
storm damage to his property would be covered under his home insurance policy. It also isnt 
in dispute that RSA informed Mr K that it wouldnt cover the damage based on the 
information hed provided. Mr K hasnt referred a complaint about RSAs decision not to deal 
with the damage as a valid claim. So, Im not going to comment on whether its repudiation 
decision was made in error in this decision.
Because Mr K reported the damage to his property, RSA recorded the information hed 
provided as a claim on its database, which is something Id expect an insurer to do for fraud 
prevention purposes. 
As I explained in the background to this complaint, RSA didnt approve Mr Ks claim in 
respect of the damage to his property. Mr K appears to believe that RSA reported the claim 
as declined on the CUE database. But, having seen an extract from the CUE database, I can 
see RSA recorded the claim as withdrawn. 
I know Mr K feels it was unfair for RSA to record that hed made a claim  he believes that 
he was only making an enquiry in efforts to ascertain whether the damage would be covered 
under his policy. And he said, as no claim was ever paid by RSA, its unfair for it to record 
the enquiry as a claim. 
Ive considered Mr Ks submissions about why he doesnt think its right to record a claim. 
But he notified RSA that an insured event  namely property damage following a storm  
had taken place. And, initially, he was intending to make a claim under his policy. In such 
circumstances, our service wouldnt say its unreasonable to record that as a claim.   
The terms of Mr Ks insurance policy set out how RSA records information and how it shares 
that information with other organisations. In common with other insurers, RSA is required to 
report accurate and up to date claim information about policies held by policyholders on the 
CUE database so that other insurers are aware. Ive seen nothing to suggest that RSA has 
breached the policy terms in reporting information provided by Mr K as a withdrawn claim on 
its own, and the CUE, database.
When Mr K was informed that RSA wouldnt cover the damage hed reported he chose not to 
proceed any further with the claim. So, RSA recorded his claim as withdrawn on the CUE 
database. Im satisfied that RSA correctly reported that Mr Ks claim had been withdrawn. 
This is how wed expect claims to be reported where a policyholder decides not to proceed 
with a claim under their policy. I therefore dont think RSA acted unfairly in reporting to the 
CUE database that Mr K had withdrawn his claim. 
Mr K appears to want our service to tell RSA to remove the claim marker from the CUE 
database. But I cant ask it to do that because, as Ive mentioned, an insurer has a duty to 
make accurate records. And what RSA has reported is a true reflection of what happened.
 
Information recorded on the CUE database is shared with other insurers. Mr K will therefore 
need to declare the withdrawn claim if hes asked whether hes made any claims within five 
years of the date the claim was made. I can see RSA explained this to Mr K and I think that was good advice. It also offered to speak to Mr Ks current insurer to confirm that hed 
chosen to withdraw his claim. This demonstrates RSA was trying to assist Mr K.
Mr K told our service that RSA recorded the £100 compensation it had paid to resolve a 
complaint hed made as the claim value. But the CUE database shows that RSA recorded 
that it has paid Mr K £100 compensation. I know Mr K would like that information removed 
and I can see that RSA told Mr K, in its final response to his complaint, that it would look into 
whether it could do that. It also offered to pay him £50 compensation to recognise any 
trouble and upset hed been caused by this appearing. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr K. Hes stated that his current insurer hasnt 
increased the cost of his premium based on the information RSA recorded on the CUE 
database. I recognise that other insurers may view what happened differently. But, based on 
the information currently available, Im satisfied that the information RSA recorded hasnt led 
to a premium increase with his new insurer. And theres nothing to suggest that the 
information showing on the CUE database will cause problems for Mr K when he takes out 
insurance policies in the future.
Having assessed whether the compensation RSA offered is fair in the overall circumstances 
of this complaint Im satisfied that £50 is a reasonable amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr K would have been caused here. Its in 
line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what Id have told RSA to pay had no 
compensation been offered. I havent seen evidence to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted. So, I wont be asking RSA to increase the £50 it offered Mr K.
Mr K informed our investigator that he received a pro rata refund of his cancelled policy. This 
is what Id expect an insurer to do following a policy cancellation. So, Im satisfied RSA acted 
reasonably once Mr K stated that he wished to terminate his relationship with it.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to show that 
RSA acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman