DRN-3017184
The complaint
Mr T complained about advice he received in the 1990s to take out free-standing additional 
voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) with his pension. 
Mr T says he wanted to increase his pension provision and the recommendations he 
received werent suitable. He implies if hed been given the right information about his 
options, he would have acted differently, including using additional voluntary contributions 
(AVCs) linked to his employers in-house occupational pension scheme (OPS) instead. 
Mr T therefore says he has lost out financially because of this.
AVIVA Insurance UK Limited has accepted responsibility for answering this complaint. Mr T 
is being represented in his complaint by a claims management company. So, to keep things 
simple, Ill refer mainly to Aviva and Mr T.
What happened
Mr T had been employed in his profession since 1989 and had been a member of his 
employers OPS - a large public sector scheme - since starting. 
It seems that Mr T wanted to enhance is pension provision and in February 1992, he met 
with an adviser who recommended that he start contributing to an FSAVC plan in addition to 
the OPS he was already a member of. 
As the name suggests, FSAVCs are free standing, which means they are not tied to the 
employer but typically run alongside the OPS. Mr T was 29 years old in early 1992. The 
FSAVC plan commenced with Mr T making a monthly contribution of £43 (gross). 
In September 1998, we know Mr T was advised along mainly the same lines, but this time 
increased the amount he was paying monthly in FSAVCs to £52 (gross).
Mr Ts points of complaint are broadly that he didnt fully understand the investments he was 
getting into, nor the terminology used in the documentation he received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing that we no longer have access to the sale documents used in the 1992 
sale when Mr T started the FSAVC plan. However, Ive taken into account that this was 
around 30 years ago and although Aviva cannot say for sure that it met with Mr T, it has 
accepted responsibility for the sale.
In the absence of the 1992 sale documentation, Ive thought about what is more likely to 
have happened based on my experience. I have also used what both parties have told us 
and the information we have from the 1998 sale. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but Im afraid Im not upholding his complaint.
I agree with Mr Ts representative that it is likely that Aviva carried out both sales. I say this 
as there is reference, in the 1998 sale documentation, to a similar product having being sold 
to Mr T previously. Nevertheless, however frustrating it is, we simply dont have access to 
what Mr T would most likely have been given to look at and / or sign in 1992. I therefore use 
the later sale, in 1998, as my starting point and to get an understanding of what I think took 
place overall.
The adviser at the time of the 1998 sale was working as an Appointed Representative for 
Aviva. Ive considered what was expected of the adviser as they were a tied appointed 
representative of the company. Before May 1996 the regulator required company 
representatives to exercise due skill, care and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. In 
relation to FSAVC sales this meant knowing that in-house AVC options existed and 
mentioning the generic benefits of these options as well as highlighting the benefits of their 
FSAVC plan. However, in May 1996 the regulator issued an update called RU20 which set 
out the procedures it expected product providers to follow, although this wasnt new 
guidance but restating what was already in place. The update said that a tied adviser 
shouldnt recommend their own companys FSAVC until they had: 
Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms 
Directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option. 
As Ive said, Mr T was a member of his professions OPS which had in-house AVCs 
available for those clients who, like him, wanted to top up their pension provision. These 
AVCs were most likely to have been offered by a different provider, so Aviva would not have 
been required to provide a detailed comparison of the products to Mr T during that process.  
Instead, Mr T should have been told that other in-house options were available and Aviva 
should have mentioned that fees and charges in the AVC scheme would likely be lower than 
an FSAVC one. 
1998 sale
I have looked at the documentation Mr T was given to look at for the 1998 sale. Considering 
everything as a whole, I think it is fair to say there clearly was a significant discussion 
between Mr T and Aviva about his financial situation. What followed was a written summary 
for him, setting what had taken place during that discussion. 
I think this would have helped him to make an informed choice about what he wanted to do. I 
note, for example, that he signed a declaration which pointed out that his OPS most likely 
had in-house AVC options and that the charges relating to those were likely to be low. 
There was also evidence that Mr T was told to make enquiries relating to the in house AVC 
option and he hand-wrote a brief declaration to confirm hed done this. 
1992 sale
I note what has been said by Mr T about the same adviser probably carrying out both sales. I 
cant say for sure if that is right, but I can understand that its certainly possible. Our 
adjudicator agreed and came to the view that the 1992 sale probably had similar elements 
present to the 1998 one  and that differences between FSAVCs and AVCs were probably 
discussed in 1992 as well as in 1998.
Mr T says its unfair to make that assumption: he says the difference between these 
products would not have been made clear enough. However, there is no supporting information or evidence which suggests this, and I think its fair to assume the 1992 
description of Mr Ts options would have been broadly similar in both sales. Indeed, if the 
same sales agent was involved, this would only seem even more likely. However, I also 
place considerable weight on it being unlikely that, if presented in 1998 with information 
(about his options) which was fundamentally different to a scheme hed already been signing 
up to for six-years, Mr T would have thought something wasnt right. I think at that point he 
would have wondered if hed been sold something he hadnt wanted. There is no evidence 
this happened and I see he continued with the FSAVCs for quite a few years thereafter.
All this leads me to conclude that the options for Mr T around his additional pension 
provision, in 1998, were adequately discussed as per the rules. I think the main features 
were pointed out to him during a significant discussion. 
As I say, its unfortunate we dont have the1992 paperwork to look at anymore. But this 
alone doesnt necessarily mean I should find against Aviva. Even taking account of this 
oversight, everything points to there being more persuasive evidence in this case that 
FSAVCs are what Mr T wanted to have. So, in 1992, I think its more like the sale was 
carried out with the skill, care and diligence required.
were the relevant rules complied with?
I think theres good evidence the bullet points above (of RU20) were met during the 1998 
sale. I do accept its hard to know what was actually discussed. Nevertheless, I see the 
discussion probably included the OPS having low charges and also being well placed to 
deliver higher benefits than an FSAVC as it was described in the recommendation summary 
which was signed by Mr T.  
On the wider points of complaint, I disagree that Mr Ts premiums were raised considerably 
between the 1992 and 1998 sales as he alleged in his complaint. The increase to me seems 
much more of a moderate one and merely a response to an updated financial review after 
six years had elapsed, designed as it probably was, to reflect Mr Ts evolving circumstances. 
I take note too of the comments made about the timescales involved in the 1998 sale and 
whether Mr T had sufficient time to digest what was being recommended before he 
eventually committed to the advice he was given  it was implied he had to sign up on the 
same day. However, I dont agree, as Mr T seems to have had sufficient time between 
discussing these things and committing to the recommendations. Given Mr Ts 
circumstances, I feel he would be well able to understand the terms used and I think the 
business was trying to walk a line between what it was required by the rules of the time  
and also to make things understandable for him. 
The question of added years 
Most of which Ive seen from Mr Ts representative is that his complaint points revolve 
around the suitability of the advice he was given on the FSAVC versus AVC options, rather 
than anything else. There is only limited mention of added years which might have been an 
option for him. There is also only a minor reference to this option in the recommendation 
summary. However, this isnt to say the matter of added years wasnt discussed or indeed 
looked into when Mr T was thinking about his OPS and what to do about the options he had. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether this changes anything.
Added years was quite a different option to the other two in that it provided a guaranteed 
benefit. But it depended on a members salary, so the final amount of benefit couldnt be 
known at the beginning. The fact that, as in this case, Mr T remained in his occupation and would have enjoyed some salary increases doesnt necessarily mean he would have 
purchased this option. 
At the time of the advice added years would most likely have looked quite expensive 
compared to the projected returns and benefits of both the AVC-type options. It would have 
involved a lump sum payment or monthly amount calculated on various different aspects of 
Mr Ts situation and the payments may have seemed high. I have considered his age, family 
and financial circumstances in arriving at that view. So, I think it would been unlikely that he 
would have wanted to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the same or greater 
projected returns / benefits from added years as he could have from a money purchase 
arrangement. 
On being directed to his OPS, as I believe he was, Mr T would have probably found out 
more about this option for himself and the evidence in this case is of him wanting to buy the 
FSAVC option. So, I dont think Mr T would have changed anything he did.
Summary
Ive looked at everything Mr T and his representative have said with great care. I do accept 
some things are missing and also that certain assumptions need to be made. 
However, I think the evidence is more persuasive that Mr T knew the benefits he was likely 
to enjoy from a final salary pension. I think he wanted to complement this with a different 
financial product. I think the evidence is also more persuasive that he was told about the 
lower charges and greater benefits that could be apparent in the in-house scheme and he 
took the opportunity to look at the other options he had.
I dont think he was mis-sold these products in 1992 and 1998.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I do not require AVIVA Insurance UK Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman