DRN-3774200
The complaint
Mrs H says Metro Bank PLC failed to follow her payment instructions despite guaranteeing it 
would. She is also unhappy with the customer service it provided and with how her 
subsequent complaint was handled.  
What happened 
On 1 April 2022 Mrs H called Metro Bank to give it payment instructions as she wanted to 
transfer money to another bank to settle a mortgage account. She was told the payments 
team would most likely need to call her back for security checks prior to the transfer going 
through. Mrs H says after she explained she would only have access to her phone for the 
next hour the adviser spoke to a manager and it was agreed the transfer would go ahead 
without a security call. 
Metro Bank says Mrs H was advised if the payments team needed to call it makes two 
separate attempts before requiring the accountholder to call in. In this instance its records 
show it attempted two call backs within the hour but did not reach Mrs H so the payment 
instruction was halted.
Mrs H checked her account on 22 April 2022 and discovered the transfer had not gone 
ahead. She then called the bank. It accepts it could have better assisted Mrs H to process 
the transfer on that day, and not on the 26 April 2022 as happened. It accepts it also omitted 
to call Mrs H back as promised on 23 April 2022. For these service issues it paid Mrs H £40 
compensation. It does not accept it made any errors on 1 April 2022.
Mrs H says she has suffered a financial loss of £151.75 as a result of the delayed transfer as 
her mortgage continued to incur interest. The issue caused her considerable distress and 
inconvenience. The service was appalling: promised call backs did not happen; departments 
did not communicate with each other and managers were not available for her to speak to.  
And Metro Banks response to her complaint was flawed for more than one reason. 
Mrs H asks for Metro Bank to cover the additional interest she had to pay as it delayed her 
mortgage closure; compensation for her calls from overseas where she lives; compensation 
for the stress and anxiety she suffered and for her wasted time; and compensation to 
recognise the poor service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part. She found there was some confusion after 
the parties call of 1 April 2022. Mrs H understood there would be no security call, but the 
bank seems to have meant it would be ok to process the payment as the payments team 
would be able to call her within the hour she had available. But she felt as the bank had 
made two calls and left a voicemail after the initial call, Mrs H ought to have been aware she 
needed to get back in touch. So it would not be fair to hold Metro Bank liable for the interest 
Mrs H incurred after 1 April 2022. But she did feel, as the bank accepts, it could have 
processed the transfer on 22 April 2022 and so should compensate Mrs H for the interest 
she paid between 22 and 26 April. She sent Metro Bank supporting documentation to 
evidence the daily interest on Mrs Hs mortgage account at this time. She also felt it would 
be proportionate for the bank to pay Mrs H an additional £50 compensation  it had offered 
this to recognise the impact of the misunderstanding on the first call.
Mrs H disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, 
she said it wasnt reasonable to assert that a missed call from the bank ought to have alerted 
her to something being wrong  she wasnt after all expecting a call from the bank. And she 
only received one call from the bank that day. Regardless, she understood from the initial 
conversation the transfer would be made without a security call from the payments team. 
That is the expectation the bank set. It may now be seen as ambiguous but that remains the 
fault of the bank for not being clear. To defend the bank by saying that it didnt explicitly say 
there wouldnt be a call shows bias.  
In addition, she said the investigator has not considered how poor the overall service was, 
for example, there was no follow-up communication after the transfer was stopped; the note 
on her file to call her on the 2 April 2022 if necessary was ignored; no manager was 
available on request; a call back was missed and on 22 April Mrs H was unhelpfully passed 
between departments. Finally, she had to chase a response to her complaint in May 2022 
and it was not sent by email as requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I want to respond to Mrs Hs comment that our investigation to date shows bias. We are 
an independent and impartial organisation and we do not act on behalf of financial services 
companies or consumers - it is not in our interest to find in favour of one party over the other.
I want to reassure Mrs H that I have reviewed, and thought carefully about, all the points she
has raised. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our
rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of her
complaint  and that we have the powers to consider.
I have listened carefully to the call at 9.31am on 1 April 2022. Whilst I accept that Mrs H 
came off that call with the understanding there would be no security call, this does not mean 
I can fairly find the bank was at fault for not processing the transfer when it could not contact 
her.  I say this as I think it is equally reasonable to interpret the call as having concluded with 
the agreement that because Mrs H could take a call from the payments team in the next 
hour she could proceed. She herself said if someone could call her back in the next hour that 
would be ok. The bank has acknowledged that the advisor could have explained more 
carefully what he meant when he said it was alright to process the payment now and so has 
offered £50 additional compensation. I find this to be fair. Had Mrs H returned the banks 
subsequent call(s), expected or otherwise, the payment could have proceeded. I have to 
consider this when deciding the fair outcome as when we make awards we look at what a 
customer could have done to mitigate the impact of any issue.
As she didnt call back, the actions Metro Bank took were in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account (specifically clauses 4.1 and 5.2). And I am satisfied from the 
banks outbound call log and call recordings that it made two follow up calls to the correct 
number, the first within an hour of her initial call at 10.30am and the second at 11.37am. The 
first connected with Mrs Hs voicemail but no message was left. The second also reached 
her voicemail and a message was left asking Mrs H to call back from her registered contact 
number. Mrs H says she only had one missed call, I cannot know why that was, but the 
discrepancy does not change my finding. She also raised that there was no follow-up after 
this point but I find the bank had met its obligations, and she needed to get back in touch 
with it. I understand Mrs H feels more should have been more done, but I find Metro Bank  followed its standard process in such circumstances. It is not within our powers to review or 
comment on a banks processes or policies  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Looking at the other service issues, Metro Bank accepts Mrs H did not receive the level of 
service she is right to expect on 22 and 23 April 2022. It has apologised and paid her £40 
compensation. This is in line with what we would award taking into account the impact and 
duration of the issues on those dates. It follows I am not increasing that part of the award. 
But I do agree with the investigators recommendation that the bank should cover the 
incremental mortgage interest Mrs H had to pay as a result of the delay in the transfer from 
22 to 26 April 2022.  
Finally, there is a difference between a complaint about a financial service and a complaint
about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former. Mrs Hs additional 
concerns about what she describes as Metro Banks flawed response to her complaint is not 
a complaint about the provision of or failure to provide a financial service  its distinctly 
about complaint handling. And under our rules I cannot consider complaint handling.
Putting things right
Metro Bank must now pay Mrs H the additional £50 compensation, plus £24.28 to make 
good the financial loss she incurred from the interest she was charged on her mortgage 
between 22 and 26 April 2022.   
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Hs complaint in part. Metro Bank PLC must now put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman