DRN-2301177
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, when it was trading under a different business name) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
To keep things simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Lloyds as the seller as it is responsible 
for dealing with this complaint.
What happened
Mr S took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in February 1999. The policy protected 
his mortgage monthly repayments if he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr S mainly said he was unhappy because hed felt pressured into taking out PPI even 
though it wasnt something he wanted or needed as he had substantial savings at the time. 
Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review his  complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I dont know exactly what was said when Mr S arranged the mortgage and applied for PPI. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr S is sure about what hes told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect him to recall in detail what was discussed at the time. This means that 
what Mr S says about the way he was sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Theres limited paperwork from the sale  but it looks as if PPI was discussed during the 
mortgage application process as Mr S completed a separate PPI application in order to have 
the cover added on. So, although I dont know how the PPI was presented to him, I think 
Mr S wouldve been aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted to have PPI with the 
mortgage. 
Mr S indicated on the PPI application how much cover he wanted to have. He signed the 
declaration at the end of the completed application confirming that he met the requirements 
to apply for the cover and he agreed with the information put on the form. 
At the same time Mr S also signed paperwork to set up monthly payment arrangements at 
his bank to cover the PPI cost. 
So, on balance, I think Mr S signed up for the policy knowing it was an optional extra with his 
mortgage  and PPI was added to his mortgage account when Mr S chose to buy the policy. 
Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr S. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So Ive kept this in mind 
when looking at Mr Ss complaint.
The policy wouldve covered Mr Ss mortgage repayments (and paid out an extra amount) 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr S was unable to work as a result of accident or sickness. 
It wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay from work and couldve provided a useful benefit 
when Mr S mightve also been facing extra costs if he was off work through illness or 
disability. So the policy couldve paid out a benefit for a lot longer than the six weeks sick 
pay that Mr S told us his employer wouldve paid. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr S lost his job unexpectedly and he was unemployed. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr S if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr S some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Although Mr S mentioned having savings, it looks like he preferred to keep these intact, or 
he had other plans for that money, since he took out this mortgage rather than use savings 
to reduce the amount of his borrowing and keep down the overall cost of his mortgage. 
Having PPI meant Mr S could keep his savings to spend on other things or to provide him 
with financial security. So I think he wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. 
Mr Ss mortgage was a long term financial commitment and his home couldve been at risk if 
he found himself unexpectedly unable to keep up his monthly mortgage repayments. Based 
on all the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr S taking into account 
what hes told us about his situation at the time. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve limited 
the policys benefit to him. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ss decision to 
have PPI. 
Mr S chose to take out the policy and so he appears to have wanted this type of cover. He 
was eligible for the policy. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr S when he bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, it doesnt appear to have been unaffordable for him.
And he wouldve seen the monthly premium when Lloyds sent Mr S the policy schedule  
when he had the option to cancel the policy within 30 days and get a full refund if he hadnt 
wanted to pay for it. 
After that, he was still able to cancel the policy at any time without losing out financially. It 
looks as if Mr S was keen to keep the policy running as he completed a new direct debit 
mandate to cover the monthly premiums when there had been some problems making the payment through his bank. So it looks to me like he valued the protection that PPI offered 
him at the time, even if hes forgotten this now.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him worthwhile protection in his particular situation. 
This means that Mr S hasnt lost out in money terms as a result of anything that Lloyds did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman