DRN-2963499
The complaint
Mrs B has complained she was mis-sold a with-profits bond by National Westminster Bank 
Plc. 
What happened
In November 2010 Mrs B was advised to invest £60,000 in a with-profits bond, which 
included a guarantee of returning at least her capital if it was surrendered at either the five- 
or ten-year anniversaries. In March 2020 Mrs B surrendered the bond, for a total value of 
around £89,000. Around that time, NatWest wrote to Mrs B to ask if she would like them to 
review the advice she was given.
 
Upon reviewing the advice, NatWest found the investment wasnt suitable for Mrs Bs 
circumstances  they said it didnt meet Mrs Bs needs or objectives and involved too much 
risk. However, when they compared it with the average rates of return available from fixed 
rate bonds with two-year terms, NatWest found that Mrs B had made more from the 
unsuitable investment than she otherwise would have, so there was no loss to pay. NatWest 
also offered to consider a refund of any tax Mrs B had to pay as a result of the unsuitable 
advice. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this reply, because she felt it wasnt right to use the average rates 
that had been available. She agreed she would have invested in one- or two-year fixed rate 
bonds but would have found the highest rate on the market, not the average. In addition, she 
said she had received a chargeable event certificate from the bond provider and paid HMRC 
around £5,000 in income tax as a result. NatWest explained that based on what they knew 
of her income tax status, she shouldnt have had to pay additional tax, so suggested she 
should speak to the Inland Revenue about reclaiming that. Mrs B remained unhappy and so 
brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and agreed the investment had been 
mis-sold. She asked NatWest to recalculate whether any redress was due, using the 
average rates of return from one-year fixed rate bonds, as that is the benchmark commonly 
used in similar circumstances. Again, there was no loss to pay Mrs B. The investigator 
considered the tax Mrs B paid and found that even if Mrs B had been advised to invest in an 
investment where no tax had been payable, she was still in profit. So, the investigator found 
that there was no loss to pay. As Mrs B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Mrs B was given unsuitable advice  the level of risk involved in the investment 
was more than shed wanted to take. While there was a guarantee at the five- and ten-year 
points, Mrs Bs circumstances were uncertain in 2010, which meant that such a long term 
was unsuitable for her. The adviser noted at the time that she had expressed an interest in 
short term fixed rate bonds, which matches what Mrs B says she would have otherwise 
invested in. Based on what I know about her circumstances, I agree that she ought to have 
been advised to invest in something with very little risk. 
I appreciate Mrs Bs comments about seeking the best rates of return that she could  its 
natural that shed have wanted to make sure her money grew well. However, in order to 
fairly address the complaint, wed need to know the product Mrs B would have taken out in 
2010. As Mrs Bs money was invested for around ten years, wed also need to know the 
subsequent products shed have taken out each time the bonds matured. Mrs B hasnt 
shown us any evidence of specific alternative products that she was considering in 2010. 
Without knowing the products shed have invested in, we cant consider the effect of any 
charges that might have been applicable to that product. Also, there are a variety of eligibility 
criteria for fixed rate bonds. This includes things like providers requiring an ordinary bank 
account be held with them, for the investor to be eligible to apply for the relevant bond. On 
the balance of probabilities, I dont think it would be fair to say that Mrs B would have always 
been able to invest in the fixed rate bond with the highest interest rate available on the 
market. 
As an informal service, we use benchmarks like the average rates of return from short term 
fixed rate bonds, in order to ascertain the sorts of returns that investors could have achieved. 
Our aim is to put Mrs B as close to the position shed be in now, had she been given suitable 
advice. The benchmark isnt necessarily an exact reflection of the investment that Mrs B 
would have taken out. Rather it broadly reflects the sorts of returns Mrs B could have 
achieved with very little risk to her money. Overall, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
NatWest to use a different benchmark in the circumstances. 
The chargeable gain certificate that Mrs B received shows that the gain the bond made was 
around £29,000 and that around £5,000 tax was treated as paid. The bond Mrs B held is 
treated as being taxed at a rate of 20% upon surrender, regardless of the income tax status 
of the investor. I understand that Mrs B then paid further tax of around £5,000. 
Its unclear whether Ms B needed to pay any additional tax, on top of the 20% already 
treated as paid  but this is what Mrs B understood was required. Mrs B may have needed to 
pay further tax, depending on her income during the tax year she surrendered the bond  
and there are several ways of reducing this, including top slicing relief. NatWest has said 
they didnt think Mrs B would have needed to pay further tax, due to what they know about 
her circumstances. Mrs B may wish to speak to the Inland Revenue or seek independent 
advice on this, to confirm whether she could reclaim any of the tax shes paid. 
NatWests calculations show that using the two-year fixed rate bond averages, her £60,000 
would have been worth around £71,000 by 2020, or using the one-year averages, it would 
have been worth around £68,000. As such, even if she did need to pay all the tax that she 
has paid, based on the return she received from the bond, Mrs B has still made a profit 
compared to the situation shed be in now, had she received suitable advice. I dont think it 
would be fair to ask NatWest to refund any tax Mrs B has paid, as this would put her in a 
better position than shed now be in, had she been given suitable advice in 2010. 
Having considered everything, though I agree the advice Mrs B received was unsuitable for 
her, I dont think NatWest needs to use a different formula to calculate whether 
compensation is payable. As there has been no loss based on the calculations NatWest has 
used, theres no need for NatWest to pay Mrs B any compensation.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman