DRN-2914847
The complaint
Mr T complains that a phone he got through a fixed sum loan agreement with Virgin Media 
Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin) is faulty. He would like it replaced.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Mr T took out his agreement with Virgin in November 2018 but the fault with his 
phone didnt occur until January 2020 more than a year later. When issues arise 
more than six months after an agreement has been taken out the consumer has to 
show that there was a fault present or developing at the point of sale. There is no 
dispute that there is a power fault with the phone, but I have no evidence to show the 
fault was present or developing at the point of sale. I would need to have this to say 
Virgin was responsible for repair or replacement
I appreciate Mr T has told us that, in store, a representative of  the manufacturer 
advised him Virgin could return the phone to the manufacturer to be replaced as the 
phone had a two-year warranty. I cant be sure what Mr T was told instore and this 
complaint is only about Virgin and its actions.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a one-year warranty on the 
phone. I have seen no evidence of a two-year warranty. So unfortunately, as the 
problem arose more than a year after Mr T had the phone, I dont think Virgin were 
wrong to say the phone was outside of its warranty and Mr T would have to cover the 
cost of repair or replacement himself
As I havent found Virgin to have done anything wrong, I cant reasonably ask it to 
replace Mr Ts phone as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
