DRN-2200059
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mrs B was given four loans by Loans 2 Go between December 2018 and September 2019. 
Each of the loans was scheduled to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments. Mrs B repaid each 
of the first three loans far earlier than planned. But she has faced difficulties repaying the 
final loan and a balance remained outstanding when she brought her complaint to this 
Service. A summary of Mrs Bs borrowing from Loans 2 Go is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 09/12/2018 21/12/2018 £    750
2 05/01/2019 04/05/2019 £    500
3 30/07/2019 05/09/2019 £ 1,000
4 12/09/2019 - £ 1,000
When Mrs B complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt think it had been wrong to give any of the 
loans to her. But, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to write off Mrs Bs remaining balance. 
Mrs B didnt accept that offer and brought her complaint to this Service.
Mrs Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that any 
of the loans should have been given to Mrs B. So she asked Loans 2 Go to pay Mrs B some 
compensation.
Loans 2 Go said that it accepted our investigators findings in relation to loans 3 and 4, and 
offered to pay the appropriate compensation to Mrs B. But it still didnt think it had been 
wrong to give the first two loans to Mrs B. Mrs B didnt accept the new offer. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs B accepts my decision it is legally binding 
on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Mrs B required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs B. 
In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mrs B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mrs B.
Before each loan was agreed Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mrs B. It asked 
her for details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file to 
verify how much she was paying to other lenders, and to review how she had managed 
credit in the past. 
Each time, Mrs B was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. She would 
need to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that 
Loans 2 Go wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Mrs Bs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think the checks Loans 2 Go did 
before each loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Sometimes that will lead a 
lender to undertake further checks. Or sometimes it will result in a lender refusing a loan 
application outright. And that is what I think should have happened when Mrs B asked to 
borrow from Loans 2 Go.
The credit check that Loans 2 Go performed before the first loan was agreed showed that 
Mrs B had faced some fairly serious difficulties managing her finances in the past. It showed 
she had failed to meet her contractual repayments on several credit accounts and those 
accounts had been defaulted by the lender. But those problems had taken place a number of years before, and Mrs B had settled most of the defaulted accounts before she asked to 
borrow from Loans 2 Go. So I dont think those problems alone would have been a reason 
for Loans 2 Go to decline Mrs Bs application.
But the credit check showed that Mrs B was starting to face more current problems 
managing her finances. She had a communications account that had fallen at least two 
months in arrears. Mrs B had a credit card that was also in arrears and had significantly 
exceeded its credit limit. She also had another credit card with relatively recent missed 
repayments. And Mrs B had a very large overdraft showing on her bank account together 
with a short-term loan from five years earlier on which she was making token repayments.
Taken together I think the picture from Loans 2 Gos credit check was of a consumer 
heading back into serious financial difficulties. So I dont think, based on the information it 
saw from its checks, that it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that Mrs B would be 
able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. So I dont think loan 1 should have been 
agreed.
Mrs B repaid loan 1 less than two weeks later  she told Loans 2 Go that it had been 
approved before she had decided whether she needed the loan. But around two weeks later 
Mrs B returned to Loans 2 Go to ask to borrow again. Loans 2 Go performed another credit 
check at that time.
The credit check results still showed that Mrs B was facing problems managing her money. 
Her communications account was still showing in arrears, although the outstanding balance 
had reduced. And her credit card had become at least three months in arrears. Mrs Bs bank 
overdraft had increased. And a further loan account, by then in default, was showing on 
Mrs Bs credit file.
So, like at the time of loan 1, I think the results of the credit check showed that Mrs B 
continued to face problems managing her money. I dont think loan 2 should have been 
given to Mrs B either.
Loans 2 Go has accepted our investigators conclusion that its checks at the times of loans 3 
and 4 showed no improvement in Mrs Bs financial situation. I have reviewed the results of 
the credit checks and also share the view that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been given to 
Mrs B.
So in summary, I think the results of the checks that Loans 2 Go received should have led it 
to decline each of Mrs Bs loan applications. So since I have found the loans were lent 
irresponsibly, I am directing Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mrs B. 
  
Putting things right
 I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to give any of the loans to Mrs B. So 
Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans 1 to 3 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 4 and treat all the 
payments Mrs B made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mrs Bs loan 4 account as Ive directed results in Mrs B effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mrs Bs loan 4 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans 2 Go can use the total refund for loans 1 to 3 (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind 
Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs B.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to each of 
the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman