DRN-3183883
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited failed to send him his home 
insurance documents in a format suitable for his needs.
What happened
Mr S has a disability which makes it difficult for him to read documents. In January 2021, he 
called Lloyds to complain that he hadnt received his policy renewal documents in the format 
hed previously requested. He received no response, and in April 2021 again asked Lloyds 
to send him these documents in his preferred format. He also complained that it hadnt done 
this yet.
Lloyds agreed that it had failed to send Mr Ss policy documents in the format hed asked for. 
It also accepted that it hadnt responded to his original complaint within an acceptable time. 
Unfortunately, Lloyds response and a further copy of his policy documents were again sent 
to him in the wrong format. Lloyds apologised and paid Mr S a total of £132 for these 
failings.
Mr S was unhappy with Lloyds response. He said he is a vulnerable person and Lloyds 
inability to send him the correctly formatted documents caused him significant inconvenience 
and mental stress. He also noted that hed been a Lloyds customer for six years so it should 
be able to get this right by now. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She agreed that 
Lloyds made a series of mistakes that meant policy documents and its response to Mr Ss 
complaint werent sent in the format Mr S requested. However, she was satisfied that Lloyds 
apology and compensation were appropriate in this case. She didnt think Lloyds needed to 
do anything more. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 November 2021. I said:
I understand why Mr S is so frustrated and upset. Lloyds has a responsibility to provide 
documents in a format that can be read by its customers. Its final response to Mr Ss 
complaint acknowledged that hed previously requested the format he needs to be able to 
read correspondence. Unfortunately, this wasnt done when Lloyds sent him his policy 
renewal documents in September 2020. 
To make matters worse, Lloydss response to his complaint and his revised policy 
documents werent sent in the right format in April 2021. That only made Mr S more upset. 
Again, I completely understand this.
An internal note following Lloyds review of Mr Ss complaint shows that this wasnt the first 
time this had happened: from reviewing all the information I can see the same issue is 
happening each year and a complaint is raised. The same note identified the problem: a 
task is not being set 30 days before [renewal] to check renewal docs and manually send 
these [in Mr Ss preferred format]. That meant standard policy documents were 
automatically sent to him each year. So it looks like Lloyds shouldve been able to correct 
this.
Lloyds paid Mr S £132 in total to apologise for its failings. During a call on 20 April 2021, Mr 
S told Lloyds that he believed £250 would be a more appropriate sum to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this has caused him. 
In the circumstances, I agree. I think £250 is a fairer reflection of both the inconvenience to 
Mr S  having to get someone to read the documents for him and/or having to ask Lloyds to 
re-send them  and the emotional distress this has undoubtedly caused him because:
This isnt the first time this mistake has happened.
Lloyds response to Mr Ss complaint about sending documents in the wrong format 
was sent to him in the wrong format.
At the same time, new policy documents were sent to him in the wrong format.
Lloyds has already paid Mr S £132, so I think it should pay him a further £118.
Finally, I hope that Lloyds investigation and identification of the problem has resolved this. I 
note that this years renewal documents were due to be sent to Mr S at the end of 
September. Id like both parties to confirm that Lloyds sent these to Mr S in his preferred 
format when they reply to this decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. He again asked that Lloyds send him any 
correspondence on time in the right format given the considerable psychological stress this 
has caused him over several years.
Lloyds told us it had reviewed the complaint and agreed to pay Mr S the extra compensation 
I recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change this. Ill 
simply repeat Mr Ss entirely reasonable request that Lloyds sends him documents in the 
correct format in future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr S £250 in total. 
If Lloyds has already paid Mr S £132, it can subtract that amount from my award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Simon BegleyOmbudsman