The complaint
Mr B believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan hed applied 
for.
What happened
Mr B applied for a £3,500 loan with AvantCredit, to be repaid over 24 months at an interest 
rate of 25.95%. This was approved and the loan started in March 2016, with repayments of 
£190.47 a month. The loan was repaid in May 2018  two months later than scheduled in the 
original agreement.
Mr B has said he fell into financial difficulties shortly after taking out the loan. Hes 
complained that AvantCredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan, and that they 
didnt offer him enough assistance when he made them aware of his financial difficulties.
Our investigator thought AvantCredit couldve done better. She said they only did a credit 
report which verified Mr Bs income but didnt show detailed information about his other 
debts. While Mr B hadnt included any details about these in his application - he had other 
loans and credit cards at the time AvantCredit approved this loan. Based upon Mr Bs bank 
statements at the time, his debt repayments were 35% of his monthly income. And, once his 
regular bills had been paid, he didnt have enough disposable income to cover the £190.47 
monthly repayment for the AvantCredit loan.
Because of this, the investigator thought that AvantCredit hadnt done proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. And if they had, they wouldve seen that Mr B couldnt afford the 
loan and wouldnt be able to sustain payments over the 24-month loan period. So she 
recommended that AvantCredit should refund Mr B any payments hed made, less the 
amount hed originally borrowed, plus interest.
AvantCredit didnt agree with the investigator. They felt theyd fully considered all of Mr Bs 
circumstances when approving the loan and provided a copy of the credit report they used at 
the time. They say Mr B had no active loans, no arrears and no defaults when the loan was 
approved. And he had a monthly disposable income of £176.53 after their payment of 
£190.47 had been taken into consideration.
AvantCredit also say that Mr B made all but two of the loan repayments as contractually 
agreed and didnt tell them he was struggling to afford the loan at any point. So theyve 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1844004Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
AvantCredit have said that Mr Bs declared monthly income was used to help determine a 
suitable monthly repayment and was confirmed against the information on Mr Bs credit 
report. Theyve also said they identified existing credit commitments from the credit report, 
which they cross-referenced against Mr Bs declared obligations. This confirmed the loan 
was affordable, and Mr Bs repayment history showed hed not been in arrears in the 
previous 12-months. So they dont think it was irresponsible to lend him the money.
AvantCredit did an Affordability Report, which shows Mr Bs total debt had increased by over 
£2,000 in the last 12-months, and that his total unsecured debt was more than three times 
his monthly income. Although his total unsecured payments were only 15% of his net 
monthly income. These were not flagged as items of concern.
But the Affordability Report did flag some items of concern. Mr B had opened two new debt 
accounts within the last 3-months, and the outstanding debt on three of his accounts had 
increased in the last 3-months. And Mr Bs credit card debt to limit ratio was 93% - this last 
point had been flagged as red.
Ive also seen the credit report which AvantCredit say they relied upon when making their 
lending decision. And Ive noted that they didnt provide this as part of the evidence the 
investigator relied upon. A copy wasnt provided until after the investigator formed her view.
This credit report doesnt provide full details of all of Mr Bs accounts, but only provides 
summary information. It shows a total outstanding balance of £7,587 on 10 active accounts, 
£1,968 which had been borrowed within the last six-months. And it shows total monthly 
payments of £365, but Mr B had only declared £55 other expenditure each month. 
The overview section also says that overindebtedness indicators are present, with total 
balances being 120% of what they were three-months ago. And the report shows that Mr B 
had been using short-term lenders (who normally charge high interest rates), with seven 
loans having been taken.
I feel strongly that this report indicates Mr Bs debt was increasing and hed relied on short-
term high-interest borrowing. Hes also underdeclared his expenditure and was likely to be in 
a position where his borrowing was unaffordable. Given these concerns, I think that further 
checks wouldve been proportionate. So Ive considered what these checks wouldve shown.
Mr B had a monthly income of £1,432 with declared rent, council tax and utility bills of £577 a 
month. Ive looked at the full credit report Mr B has supplied, which shows details of the debt 
he had in 2016. Ive also looked at his bank statements for the three-months before the loan 
was approved. These show £652 payments to Mr Bs debts each month, and a mobile phone bill in the region of £80 a month. Which would leave Mr B with £123 disposable 
income each month to pay AvantCredits loan of £190.47. 
So, if AvantCredit had carried out further checks, they wouldve realised the loan was 
unaffordable, and they shouldnt have lent the money to Mr B.
Putting things right
AvantCredit shouldnt have lent to Mr B so they should do the following:
Refund Mr B the total amount of payments he made to them during the life of his
loan, less the amount they originally lent him.
Pay Mr B simple interest on the refunded amount, calculated at 8% a year from the
date of his payments to the date of the refund.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file, related to this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs require AvantCredit to take off tax from the 8% interest. So they 
must also give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Bs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman