DRN-2292749
The complaint
Miss W complains that Metro Bank PLC has unfairly recorded a marker at CIFAS the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Miss W says that the CIFAS marker is affecting her ability to obtain an account elsewhere 
and that she wasnt responsible for any fraudulent activity on her account.
Metro Bank says that Miss W received payments into her account of £2,500 on 11 
September 2018 and £1,600 on 12 September 2018 that were both reported as being 
fraudulently obtained. It had spoken to Miss W on 13 September 2018 when she called 
about her account being blocked. She had told it these were payments to her as she was a 
musician, but she hadnt provided evidence of this. Her account was closed and a CIFAS 
marker added. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. On 11 September 2018 
Miss W had taken out £300 of the first payment at a cash machine and £2,200 in a branch. 
The next day a new payment beneficiary had been created following a log in to mobile 
banking using Miss Ws fingerprint. And a payment of £1,100 sent by faster payment to that 
new beneficiary. Miss W had also paid £80 to her mother.
He said that Miss W has subsequently given different explanations for the payments. She 
said that a friend had told her that he needed somewhere to pay in his student finance. 
He had also listened to recordings of the calls Miss W had with Metro Bank and in 
September 2019 she had told it that the money was being held for an ex-boyfriend. She also 
explained again to our investigator that she was a musician and was expecting a payment. 
And she said that as Metro Bank hadnt explained the payments when she spoke to it she 
wrongly thought this was money she was expecting. But our investigator noted that her bank 
statement showed she had never received any significant payments of that nature before 
and there was no legitimate payment attempted. Her balance was zero before the fraudulent 
payments in. He also thought it odd that the reference on the payments bore no relation to 
student finance and so ought to have raised suspicion. And that Miss W had used some of 
what she said was a students money to send to her mother. 
In conclusion he said Miss W hadnt given a consistent account of what happened. He 
considered she knew that this money wasnt from a legitimate source even if she didnt fully 
understand the consequences of moving it. He didnt think Metro Bank had done anything 
wrong.
Miss W didnt agree. She denied saying that the money came from a boyfriend. And she said 
it hadnt been her before on the call to Metro Bank. She has explained the impact the marker 
is having on her ability to obtain an account. She was only 17 at the time and didnt 
understand what was happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive taken into account the information Miss W has provided to this service. And Ive listened 
to all the call recordings Metro Bank has provided. The calls with Metro Bank in September 
2018 started with Miss W being verified using her security information. And then when she 
complained in 2019 by a secure code sent to her phone. So, Im satisfied it was most likely 
her on the calls. In addition, during the call of 13 September 2018, she made correct 
reference to a prior call shed made about her online banking account being locked. By that 
date all but £420 of the money had been withdrawn. And Metro Bank specifically referred to 
the amount of the payments Miss W had received. Shes also talked to our investigator 
about being a musician and expecting payments. In the call she had with Metro Bank in 
September 2019 about her complaint she clearly says her ex- boyfriend had asked her to 
keep the money.
So, I agree Miss W has given differing explanations of the source of this money. She has not 
been able to substantiate any of these. The evidence is that she was in control of this 
money. And she withdrew and sent it on by faster payment. She cant explain why on her 
account at least shed be able to keep some of that money if it was for a student. I note what 
she says about her age at the time this happened. But shes not said that she was say 
intimidated into acting by anyone else. And as I say shes given inconsistent explanations 
which makes it difficult to find what she now says credible.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened. But Im satisfied on balance that its most 
likely Miss W was aware that these werent legitimate payments. And that her actions meant 
that this money was quickly moved on. I think she is fairly responsible for what happened. 
Metro Bank says that it closed her account and applied the CIFAS marker because Miss W 
received fraudulent funds into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Metro Bank was fair to 
apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS 
guidance says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the 
standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Metro Bank needs to have 
enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for 
cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been 
committed, rather than mere suspicion. Having reviewed Miss Ws account of events and the 
evidence Metro Bank has provided, Im satisfied that Metro Bank had sufficient evidence for 
the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the 
following reasons:
- Miss W received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Metro 
Bank at the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Metro Bank had grounds to believe that Miss W had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I understand what Miss W says about the impact on her. But Im afraid I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Metro Bank to do anything further.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman