DRN-2657954
The complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of his wife, Mrs D that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) sold an investment in 2010 that later became inappropriate for Mrs D following a 
change of her circumstances in 2012.
Mrs D would like to be compensated for the tax liability that she has incurred and for the 
trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Mrs D met with an adviser from SJP in October 2010 to discuss investment planning. A 
Suitability Letter was sent to Mrs D on 10 November 2010 which summarised the October 
meeting and provided an investment recommendation.
Mrs D followed the recommendation and invested £58,000 into an SJP Investment Bond. 
The recommendation was based on a medium to long term investment period with the 
objective of capital growth.
In 2012, Mrs D retired from her job and informed SJP of her change in circumstances but the 
Investment Bond continued to be invested. In October 2016, SJP wrote to Mrs D saying that 
a new adviser would be taking over her account. 
No changes were made to Mrs Ds account when the new adviser took over. In May 2019, 
SJP arranged to meet Mrs D but this meeting had to be cancelled. In July 2019, Mrs D 
arranged a new meeting and met with SJP in August 2019.
Mrs D complained to SJP on 20 August 2019 saying that her investment was unsuitable for 
her personal circumstances and that she had needlessly been paying tax. Mrs D said that 
SJP had not asked if her personal circumstances had changed and by failing to do this, she 
says that the investment was unsuitable for her as it attracted a tax liability.
SJP investigated the complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. SJP 
said that their decision was based on the available documentation and what seemed 
reasonable on balance. 
SJP accepted that there was a period between 2017 and 2019 where they did not offer a 
review. They offered Mrs D £500 as a gesture of goodwill for the trouble and upset caused 
but did not admit any liability. The offer was later increased to £1,000 after Mrs D rejected 
the offer. Mrs D rejected the final offer and referred her complaint to the service.
One of our investigators investigated the complaint but agreed with the decision of SJP. She 
did not think that SJP had done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I 
know that both Mr and Mrs D feel strongly about their complaint so I will explain why I have 
reached this decision. I would also like to thank them for the detailed submissions that they 
made to the service.
Having reviewed the documentation available to me, I think that the complaint can be split 
into the following points and I will answer each one in turn.
Was the recommendation suitable at the point of sale?
What impact has Mrs Ds personal circumstances had on the investment?
What arrangements were in place for ongoing monitoring of the investment or Mrs Ds 
personal circumstances?
Was the recommendation suitable at the point of sale?
Mrs D met with an adviser from SJP in 2010 and was looking for advice on investment 
planning. Although the fact find documentation is not available for review, I have looked at 
the Suitability Letter that was sent by SJP in November 2010. This letter summarises what 
was discussed in the meeting and includes many of the details I would expect to see 
following a fact find.
When a business is recommending an investment, it needs to assess the personal and 
financial circumstances of the consumer in order to ensure that it is suitable for their needs.
The Suitability Letter sent to Mrs D has details on her financial arrangements and her 
attitude to risk. The investment sum was coming from cash held on deposit and Mrs D had 
other assets and could afford to invest.
Mrs Ds attitude to risk is recorded as being low to medium and the advisor states that the 
Investment Bond recommended is consistent with this risk tolerance. 
The investment term recorded was medium to long term which the adviser says was in line 
with Mrs Ds investment objectives.
The adviser noted that based on the information provided to him, Mrs Ds tax status is 
recorded as a basic rate taxpayer. The adviser also noted that Mrs D had already funded an 
ISA for that tax year, and he didnt think an ISA would be appropriate for her needs as it 
couldnt be used in future trust planning.
The Suitability Letter records most of the detail that I would expect to see, and I think that the 
adviser has made the recommendation based on the information available to them. From 
what I have seen on file, I think that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs D and I think 
that the adviser has acted fairly. 
In his submission to the service, Mr D has said that they believe the recommendation was 
suitable at the time but after Mrs Ds personal circumstances changed, the investment was 
unsuitable for her needs.
What impact has Mrs Ds personal circumstances had on the investment?In his submission to the service, Mr D has said that SJP were told in general conversation in 
2012 that Mrs D personal circumstances had changed, and she had retired. Mr D says that 
this should have prompted a review of her investment and any potential tax implications that 
Mrs Ds new tax status may have had.
In SJPs letter to Mrs D dated 8 October 2019, they say that there was no mention of Mrs Ds 
intention to retire and that the adviser worked on the basis that Mrs D would continue to 
work.
The investigator said in her view that she had no reason to dispute that Mrs D told the 
adviser of her change in circumstance. I agree, so will proceed on the balance of probability 
that Mrs D informed SJP that she had retired, and her personal circumstances had changed. 
Mr Ds complaint is that having been told of this change of personal circumstance, SJP did 
nothing and were negligent in not reviewing the investment considering this information. 
There are some things that I will say on this point:
Retirement does not always affect the tax status of an individual. A person who is retired 
may continue to have taxable income and pay income tax. Mr D says that the adviser 
was informed that Mrs D was retired but it does not always follow that this will result in 
the person being a non-tax payer.
The Suitability Letter of 2010 includes details on how the investment bond would be 
taxed  it says:
The underlying fund within the bond is taxed at up to 20%. This is deemed to satisfy any 
liability to capital gains tax, together with income tax at the basic rate, within the fund and 
is non-reclaimable. 
You will not incur an immediate personal liability to income tax provided you do not 
withdraw more than 5% of the original investment per policy year. This 5% allowance 
can be carried forward if not used but is subject to a maximum of 100% over 20 years. 
If you make withdrawals of more than 5%, or fully surrender the bond or encash 
individual clusters, you may incur a tax liability on any chargeable event gains (gains) as 
detailed below:
Non, or basic rate tax payer - there will be no further tax liability unless the gain, after top 
slicing, takes your taxable income into the higher rate tax bracket (in which case a 
proportion of the gain would incur a further liability to tax at 20%, having taken account of 
the tax deducted within the fund.)
Mrs D said in her complaint to SJP in 2019 that she was never told that the fund would pay 
tax, or in other words, be liable to a tax liability. I think that the Suitability Letter covers how 
tax would apply to the investment and this was also referred to within the Key Features 
Document that was sent in 2010.
Mr D has said that it was Mrs Ds change in personal circumstances that made the 
investment unsuitable, but I think that the Suitability Letter and Key Features Document gave 
information on how the investment was taxed.
Mrs D made two withdrawals from the bond in 2013 for £8,700 and £3,568. The first 
withdrawal exceeded the bonds 5% allowance and triggered a chargeable event. Having 
reviewed the information available to me, I think that regardless of Mrs Ds tax status, if she 
exceeded the allowance, she would have incurred a tax liability.What arrangements were in place for ongoing monitoring of the investment or Mrs Ds 
personal circumstances?
I think that the advice provided to Mrs D in 2010 can be regarded as a one off or standalone 
piece of advice and not part of an ongoing relationship such as an advisory or discretionary 
investment management portfolio. 
I have not seen any evidence from the documentation that I have reviewed that suggested 
that this was an ongoing relationship, but I note that within SJPs letter to Mrs D dated 8 
October 2019, they say:
As discussed earlier, there was no contractual obligation to provide regular face to face 
advice, but we are satisfied that the adviser attempted to provide you with this service 
nevertheless.
The letter goes onto say:
However, we do note that there was a period Between October 2017 and April 2019 where 
we did not offer a review and no contact appears to have been made.
This is somewhat contradictory  I have seen no evidence that an ongoing relationship was 
anticipated in the documents that were sent to Mrs D but SJP concede that there was a time 
where no contact was made. I believe that it is on this basis that they made their gesture of 
goodwill offer.
As I have not seen any evidence that the recommendation was made and subject to an 
ongoing relationship, I dont believe that SJP have acted unfairly. Had an ongoing 
relationship been in place then I would expect SJP to consider whether the investment 
continued to suit Mrs Ds personal circumstances.
The second chargeable event that was triggered was as a result of the original investment 
being surrendered which triggered a tax liability. This scenario was covered in the initial 
Suitability Letter and Key Features Document.
In summary, I think that SJP provided a one-off recommendation that was suitable for Mrs 
Ds based on the meetings that were held to discuss her personal circumstances at the time. 
SJP were not made aware that Mrs D would retire within two years of the Investment Bond 
but crucially think that the tax implications were the same for non-taxpayers as they were for 
basic rate taxpayers.
I think that SJP made Mrs D aware of what scenarios may attract a tax liability, but I dont 
think that they acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 Brian Gray
Ombudsman