DRN-3296396
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with how First Central Insurance Management Limited (First Central) 
handled things when he wanted to cancel his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y took out motor insurance through First Central. He then sold his car and says he called 
First Central to cancel the policy. However Mr Y says First Central didnt cancel the policy 
right away and took the first payment and then charged him a cancellation fee. Mr Y says 
this was wrong as he cancelled before the policy renewed. First Central pursued him for the 
debt and debt collectors became involved. Mr Y set up a repayment plan with the debt 
collectors which he thought was in relation to this debt, but turned out to be in connection 
with another matter. Mr Y says there was a missed payment recorded on his credit file as he 
thought he was paying First Central when in fact he wasnt. This affected his ability to get 
credit elsewhere.
About two years after the policy was cancelled, Mr Y contacted First Central about this. First 
Central explained the correct process was followed but offered to remove the £50 
cancellation fee from the outstanding balance, leaving £23.77 to pay. First Central at first 
told Mr Y the default marker would be removed from his credit file once this was paid, but 
then told him this wasnt possible.
Mr Y complained to First Central. First Central said it believed it had followed the correct 
process, as the balance had been outstanding for two years. First Central said the balance 
had now been settled, and the default had been marked as satisfied.
However, having listened to the calls that Mr Y had made, First Central agreed that it had 
made some mistakes. It failed to call him back on one occasion, and also misadvised him, 
leading him to believe that once the payment was made, all record of the default would be 
removed. First Central said that when a balance is settled, it updates the credit file to that 
effect, to show that nothing is outstanding anymore. However, it cannot remove all record 
that there was once money owed. First Central said feedback would be given with regards to 
this, and any necessary training arranged to prevent customers from being misadvised in the 
future. First Central said that due to the poor service, it would reimburse £75 back to Mr Y as 
compensation.
Mr Y wasnt happy with First Centrals response and so he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said although First Central had made a mistake 
in what it told Mr Y about removing the default, it had apologised to Mr Y and offered him 
£75. The investigator felt this was fair and reasonable and in line with what this service 
would suggest. 
Mr Y wasnt happy with this and so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr Y says he has 
spent time and effort sorting this matter out and it has had an impact on him financially. He 
wants the mention of the missed payment removed from his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
From the documents First Central have provided, I can see that Mr Y did in fact have the 
benefit of about 10 weeks insurance on his policy. When Mr Y renewed the policy, he paid a 
deposit and set up a monthly payment plan. First Central says that Mr Y called to cancel the 
policy about eight weeks after it started but hung up before the cancellation was complete. 
He then called back about a week later and said hed sold the car. This was the same day as 
the first payment was due on his credit agreement. 
First Central told Mr Y he had seven days to change the vehicle on the policy or it would be 
cancelled. Mr Y didnt change the vehicle, so the policy was cancelled. First Central 
calculated that Mr Y owed it £23.77 for the cover hed had that hadnt already been paid for 
plus a £50 cancellation fee, a total of £73.77. Mr Y didnt pay the outstanding balance and it 
was referred to First Centrals collections team who made several attempts to contact Mr Y 
to clear this balance. The debt was then passed to a debt collection agency.
Mr Ys credit agreement with First Central says: 
MISSING PAYMENTS
We may also take legal action or use a debt collection agency to recover any Outstanding 
Balance. Missing payments may make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in the future."
First Central says its Policy Wording document also has a link to its Privacy Notice, which 
states the following:
"Credit reference agencies
If you're paying by Direct Debit, we may give details of your accounts and how you 
manage them to credit reference agencies, including records of outstanding debt. This 
information may be supplied to other organisations to perform similar checks and to trace 
your whereabouts and recover debts that you owe. Records remain on file for 6 years after 
they're closed, whether settled by you or defaulted. For more information on how credit 
reference agencies handle your information click here."
Overall, I think First Central has acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with the 
terms of Mr Ys credit agreement. Mr Y had the benefit of a period of insurance for his 
vehicle and it is reasonable that he should have been asked to pay for it. Its unfortunate that 
Mr Y thought hed set up an agreement with the debt collection agency to pay First Central 
when actually he hadnt. But I dont think First Central can be held responsible for this. I think 
it was reasonable of First Central to mark Mr Ys credit file with the default payment. This 
was factually correct and Im not going to ask First Central to change it.
First Central has acknowledged that it made some mistakes in its dealings with Mr Y, and it 
has waived the £50 cancellation fee and paid him £75. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
way to settle Mr Ys complaint and compensate him for his time and inconvenience. First 
Central has confirmed that it has marked the outstanding amount on Mr Ys credit file as 
satisfied, which is reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. So I wont be asking First 
Central Insurance Management Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman