DRN-3441192
The complaint
Mr M complains Zurich Insurance Plc hasnt settled his subsidence claim fairly. 
What happened
Around 1990 Mr M had a subsidence claim accepted against his Zurich buildings insurance 
policy. Work to address the subsidence, including new foundations, took place during the 
following years. After that there was a dispute over remedial works. Its continued to the 
present day. 
I wont set out the full background here. Instead Ill skip to the current issue. In 2012 Mr M 
was of the opinion some of Zurichs work needed redoing due to poor quality. He felt it had 
failed to complete other areas of work. In 2012 Zurich paid him a cash settlement of £32,000 
to cover the cost of the outstanding work. Mr M didnt think it was enough to cover 
everything. 
Discussion carried on for a few years until an approach was agreed to try to resolve Mr Ms 
concerns. Mr Ms surveyor and Zurichs loss adjuster met at the property. This resulted in a 
report being produced, in 2016, with the aim of finding agreement between the parties on the 
scope of works and fair settlement of the claim. 
Mr M considered all the work listed in the report to be claim related. Zurich agreed to most of 
it. But disputed a few items  including external rendering and removal of concrete posts. 
Tenders were received for all the work in the report  including the disputed items. The 
lowest was for about £75,000 (exclusive of VAT). In response Zurich said it had already paid 
Mr M enough to cover the outstanding claim related work.
In October 2018 Zurich responded to a complaint from Mr M. In reference to the tender it 
said the £32,000 already paid was enough to fairly settle the claim. It still didn't accept some 
of the rendering work as claim related. But agreed to cover rendering of the propertys flank. 
It went on to pay about £15,000, plus £500 compensation for taking too long to reach its 
decision. 
Mr M was still unsatisfied and carried on discussions with Zurich. In June 2020 it issued a 
further complaint final response. It repeated its position that the £32,000 paid in 2012 was a 
fair settlement. It referred to a further £20,000 paid in January 2020 for rendering of the front 
and rear of the property. Zurich paid Mr M £2,000 compensation for taking too long to 
confirm its decision. It said it would contact him separately to confirm an additional 
settlement for alternative accommodation (AA). It went on to pay £2,100 for that. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response so referred his complaint to this service in October 
2020. He complains Zurich hasnt paid him enough to cover all the work set in the 2016 
report. He also feels its AA payment is too low and that it needs to settle some professional 
fees.
In November 2021 our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. He wasnt persuaded 
Zurich should pay more to settle the repairs or towards AA. He felt the £2,000 compensation 
already paid was fair. Mr M didnt accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to 
me.  
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I set out my reasons for not intending to 
require Zurich to pay Mr M anything extra to settle his claim or to do anything differently. Ive 
copied them in below as they form part of this final decision. I also set out my thoughts on a 
jurisdiction issue but havent provided those here as neither Mr M nor Zurich objected to 
what Id said. 
Finally the provisional decision invited the provision any new information for me to consider 
before issuing a final decision.  Zurich didnt provide a response. Mr M gave detailed 
objections to my findings. Ive responded to those below, where I feel it necessary to do so. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurichs referred to indexing and bottom lines when explaining why its already paid 
enough to settle the claim fairly. Mr Ms referred to separate lists of repairs  labelling 
them L1 and L2. He feels hes owed money for repairs in L2. Ive taken a more 
straightforward approach to the complaint. Ive considered if Zurichs paid Mr M 
enough to cover the cost of all those repairs or remedial works, in the 2016 report, 
that Im persuaded its liable for. 
In 2012 Zurich paid Mr M £32,000. In 2019 it paid £15,000 and then £20,000 for 
rendering work. Thats a total of £67,000. As far as Im aware those amounts were all 
inclusive of VAT. If all the works listed in the 2016 report are accepted as claim 
related, Zurichs total payments to Mr M would fall £23,000 short of the tender of 
£90,000 (inclusive of VAT).
However, Zurich continues to dispute some of the work as claim related or 
necessary. It hasnt, as far as Ive seen, accepted its liable for removal of concrete 
posts. That work was costed by the tender at £5,000. Ive considered if Zurich should 
reasonably cover that cost.
I havent been provided with much in the way of expert opinion. The main evidence I 
do have is the 2016 report. It gives a summary of Zurichs loss adjusters and Mr Ms 
own surveyors opinions. Zurichs position has been that its not necessary to replace 
the posts. Mr Ms surveyors assessment is that they are in poor condition and need 
replacing. Ultimately that isnt enough for me to decide, on balance, that the posts 
need replacing  either as part of the original claim or due to defective work by 
Zurich. So I cant currently say it should as part of the original claim, or otherwise, 
cover that cost.  
Zurich did pay Mr M £20,000 for re-rendering of the front and rear elevations of the 
property. However, it says it did this as a goodwill gesture in the hope of bringing the 
claim to a conclusion. It hasnt, as far as Ive seen, accepted that its liable for the 
work or that its claim related. 
The property was re-rendered in 2005 as part of the claim. Mr M says later 
contractors observed the work to have significant defects. Again, theres little expert 
opinion or evidence for me to consider. Once more I have the summary of positions 
given in the 2016 report. Mr Ms surveyor says full redecoration is required. Zurichs doesnt agree, saying affected areas only to be repaired. It considers the problem to 
be snagging, rather than a serious defect requiring full reinstatement.   
I note Mr Ms point that Zurich didnt realise, during the dispute, that a full re-
rendering had taken in place in 2005. However, I havent so far seen enough to 
persuade me the front and rear elevations require re-rendering due to its poor 
standard of earlier work. So whilst acknowledge Zurich paid for the work as a 
goodwill gesture, I cant reasonably say it should be considered a cost its liable for.  
The work Im currently not persuaded Zurichs liable for, the posts and front and rear 
rendering (including scaffolding), is costed at about £24,000 (inclusive of VAT). If 
thats deducted from the tenders total cost, £66,000 remains (inclusive of VAT). 
Zurichs already paid £67,000 towards the list of work in the 2016 report. Considering 
that I cant say it hasnt paid Mr M enough to cover the works Im satisfied its liable 
for. So I dont intend to require Zurich to pay him any extra to settle the repairs to his 
property. 
The £32,000 was paid in 2012, so before the 2016 list of outstanding work was 
drawn up. But from what Ive seen, the repairs that money was to cover hadnt been 
made by the time of the 2016 report. So they form part of the list of outstanding work 
in the report. 
Mr Ms separated the items in the report into two lists  L1 and L2. I may have 
misunderstood but he seems to feel payments made for L1 cant be considered as a 
settlement for anything in L2. But I think the reasonable approach is to consider what 
Zurichs paid as a global amount to settle any repairs, in the 2016 report, its 
responsible for. As Ive said Im currently persuaded its made a fair settlement. 
Mr M feels Zurichs payment of £2,100 wont be enough to pay for the period of AA 
required. It feels two weeks will be enough for the work that will make Mr Ms 
property uninhabitable. However, it said it paid for three weeks in case of any 
unforeseen works. 
The tender, referred to above, gives a lead time of 14 days and contract period of 12 
weeks. Mr M feels that means Zurichs liable for AA for that full period. But Id only 
expect it to be responsible for AA costs for any period when residents cant 
reasonably be expected to reside in the property due to the work  not necessarily for 
the full period of the work. 
Zurichs two weeks is based on some internal work only. Mr Ms said the noise and 
vibrations of the external rendering work would, in his circumstances, make 
occupation impossible. I accept it would be noisy and inconvenient during working 
hours. But thats the case with a great deal of building work, it doesnt necessarily 
mean it wouldnt be reasonable to reside in the property. So far, I havent seen 
enough to persuade me it would be reasonable to require Zurich to pay for more than 
three weeks AA.  
Mr Ms said Zurich should reimburse some professional fees. I apologise if Ive 
overlooked relevant information, but he doesnt seem to have provided anything 
detailing the fees or explaining why Zurich should reimburse them. But Ill consider 
anything Im provided in response to this provisional decision. 
Based on everything Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded Zenith needs to do anything 
more. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an informal service, so Im not going to address every comment, complaint point or 
document provided for this complaint  or in response to the provisional decision. Instead 
Ive focused on what I consider the key issues and evidence. But I would like to reassure 
Mr M and Zurich Ive considered everything they have provided.
In response to the provisional decision Mr M said I failed to look at the central issue of how 
Zurich incorrectly used indexing to limit their liability. He also referred to Zurichs bottom line 
figure. But ultimately, as I understand it, what he would like is for me to require Zurich to pay 
him additional funds to settle his claim. 
However, even if I accepted Zurich had used indexing incorrectly or had made some other 
calculation error, Id still only require it to pay more if I was persuaded it hadnt already paid a 
fair amount to settle the claim. Mr Ms latest comments havent persuaded me of that. So Im 
not going to address the indexing issue, as doing so wouldnt make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Mr M says Im mistaken about Zurichs acceptance of its liabilities. The provisional decision 
referred to Zurich paying £20,000 towards the rendering as a gesture of goodwill - rather 
than an acceptance of liability.  Mr M feels I introduced the concept of goodwill, when in 
reality Zurich made the payment as it wanted to bring the matter to a conclusion. I can see 
Zurich did use those words - but it also explained, in its summary to this service, the 
payment was made on a goodwill basis.  
Ive considered everything provided by Mr M, but for the reasons given in the provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded Zurich hasnt already paid a total amount adequate to cover the 
repairs its liable for. So Im not going to ask it to pay more to settle the claim. 
Mr M says Zurich hasnt paid him AA costs over the years of the claim - so has a remaining 
liability. Id expect Zurich to reimburse those costs incurred because of it not being 
reasonable for him to remain in the property during works that did take place. But Mr M 
hasnt provided anything to show he took up AA at any point.   
I can see Zurichs made various compensation payments to Mr M over the years  including 
£2,000 in 2020. Im satisfied its paid him enough to recognise the impact of any mistakes its 
made. So Im not going to require Zurich to pay him any extra compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above. I dont require Zurich Insurance Plc to pay Mr M anything extra 
to settle his claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman