DRN-3427653
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that he wasnt able to access market data through his online account 
with Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd. A service he was paying for and an issue which he said 
resulted in him not being able to trade and affecting his profits. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Z complained to Interactive Brokers in February 2021 that he hadnt been able to 
view stock market data using the charts facility online. They responded in June 2021 
having reviewed the matter and explained that they felt he was trying to view too 
much data. They said that the tool wasnt built to be used that way. 
Interactive Brokers did eventually agree to refund Mr Z the charges for this data 
service for the period of January to June 2021. This amounted to $51.87. I think this 
was a fair resolution in the circumstances and considering Mr Z had not had use of 
this service as he was expecting. 
Mr Z feels that the compensation should be higher, as he says he wasnt able to 
trade without this full range of data. Whilst I understand he will have been 
inconvenienced and wanted this data to trade. He was still able to do deals and could 
have accessed the information in other way. I am not able to compensate Mr Z for 
potential losses on hypothetical trades. 
Interactive Brokers have discussed the issues with the chart service on numerous 
occasions, including video calls. The technical team responsible for the service has 
said that Mr Z is looking to open multiple charts and they believe that is what is 
causing the performance issues. Whilst I understand Mr Z feels this should be 
available to him, this was never guaranteed and the terms and conditions dont state 
that it is an option. I cant therefore fairly hold Interactive Brokers responsible for it 
not being available, especially after they told Mr Z in June 2021 that it wouldnt be. 
Mr Z also wants a refund of more charges as he continued to pay for the service. 
However, I dont think this is fair when he had been made aware in June 2021 that 
what he was looking to do wasnt possible. 
Mr Z has raised further issues which Interactive Brokers didnt have a chance to 
investigate under this complaint. He was made aware by our Investigator that I wont 
be considering them. He did have an opportunity to provide further video evidence of 
the charting service issue but hasnt done so. In any case, I think Interactive Brokers 
did enough to try and put things right. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Zs frustration, I think the offer made by 
Interactive Brokers to settle the complaint is fair.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made by Interactive 
Brokers (UK) Ltd to settle the complaint is fair. 
To put things right, Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd should refund Mr Z $51.87, if they havent 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman