DRN-4494065
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as 
ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS) administered a hire purchase agreement hed taken 
out to acquire a car.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS to acquire a used car in April 2019. The car cost around £21,200. It was to be 
repaid over four years with monthly repayments of £338.92 followed by an optional final 
repayment of £9,866.81. 
I can see Mr D stopped making regular payments to the agreement from September 2022, 
although there were already some arrears before this. Mr D says he fell into arrears due to 
health issues which affected his ability to work. Mr D complains about the support offered by 
BMWFS and that it ultimately terminated his agreement on 13 January 2023. 
Mr D said hed been in contact with BMWFS several times about the arrears and the 
reasons for them. He said hed been off work between August and December 2022 but had 
since gone back to work. He said he filled in income and expenditure forms and that he was 
willing to pay his normal monthly payment along with a bit more to help clear the arrears, but 
he needed to keep the car for work. Mr D was unhappy BMWFS wouldnt come to an 
agreement with him. 
BMWFS said it rejected the complaint because it made several attempts throughout the 
course of the agreement to discuss the arrears. It said Mr D was informed of the 
consequences if arrears continued to grow and payment plans that were set failed. BMWFS 
says when it received Mr Ds income and expenditure form it didnt show he would be able to 
maintain payments towards the agreement (he was in deficit). So due to this, and the 
growing arrears it decided to issue a default notice and terminate the agreement.
Our investigator looked into things and said she thought BMWFS acted fairly in the middle of 
2022 by seeking to come to arrangements with Mr D about the arrears from around May 
onwards. 
Our investigator noted Mr D had let BMWFS know about his health issues in September 
2022 and that he wasnt able to work which was contributing to the arrears. Our investigator 
said BMWFS sent Mr D an income and expenditure form to complete a couple of times in 
October 2022 but didnt receive it back initially. And when it did receive it back it noted in 
December 2022 that Mr D was in deficit. So she said BMWFS thought terminating the 
agreement would be in Mr Ds best interest. It wrote to Mr D asking him to pay about £1,900 
or it would terminate the agreement.   
Our investigator noted on 16 January 2023 Mr D requested a call back and said he wanted 
to start making payments towards the agreement. And BMWFS spoke to him and explained 
it could reinstate the agreement if he cleared the arrears of around £2,200. Mr D wasnt able 
to do this. Our investigator thought BMWFS ought to have considered Mr Ds proposals 
given his financial difficulties appeared to be temporary. She recommended BMWFS:
Reinstate the agreement. 
Arrange a repayment plan to clear the arrears. 
Remove charges relating to any termination/late payment fees. 
Pay Mr D £500 compensation. 
Mr D accepted the proposal, but I cant see weve received a response from BMWFS. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr D and BMWFS that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Im sorry to hear Mr D was unwell and off work. It cant have been easy, and I thank him for 
taking the time to bring his complaint to our service. 
Mr D acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. I can only consider what BMWFS 
has already had the chance to look at up to its final response. 
I think there are two primary things I need to consider for Mr D. How did BMWFS handle 
things when Mr D was out of work, and whether it needs to do anything to put things right. 
While it may feel slightly backwards, Ive first thought about what options there are now for 
Mr D because I think its important to get that across.
Mr D entered into the agreement in April 2019. From what I can see it would have had 48 
repayments required of £338.92. If the first repayment was due in May 2019, this takes us to 
March 2023. And then in April 2023 a final payment was due of £9,866.81. 
Therefore, the problem I can see with a recommendation to reinstate the agreement is that 
the agreement, now, is due to be settled one way or the other. Had things gone to plan, by 
April 2023 Mr D had the choice to either: 
1. Hand back the car and pay off the arrears up to that point, along with any charges for 
damage outside of fair wear and tear. Or 
2. Buy the car by paying off the arrears and the final payment. 
So even if I were to uphold the complaint, I dont think I could direct BMWFS to reinstate the 
agreement, on the old terms at least, because it should have ended by now. 
Ive next thought about how BMWFS handed things generally. In the round, I think it handled 
things fairly in 2022. It offered the sort of forbearance Id have expected, considering Mr D 
wanted to keep the car. It referred Mr D to debt advice charities. BMWFSs notes say Mr D 
thought hed only be off work temporarily. BMWFS engaged with him and sent out income 
and expenditure forms which I think was fair. The notes indicate it offered to complete the 
income and expenditure form over the phone with Mr D but he didnt want to. It looks like the 
forms werent received back until December 2022. BMWFS didnt take any formal steps 
while it was waiting to hear back from Mr D.BMWFS took the decision to send the default notice when it saw Mr D was over £100 in 
deficit on his income and expenditure form. At this point Mr D was already a few months 
behind and given BMWFS thought he wasnt able to come to any sort of arrangement, I can 
see why it decided to send the default notice. This is the sort of process a firm is supposed 
to follow when customers are over three months in arrears. And I have to bear in mind that 
BMWFS didnt know how long Mr D was going to be in financial difficulties. BMWFS said in 
the default notice it could still come to an agreement with Mr D to avoid the consequences.  
It also tried to call and email Mr D in January before it took the decision to terminate. I think 
this was broadly fair of it. 
BMWFS spoke to Mr D just after the agreement had been terminated. And Mr D explained 
he was now back in work and looking to make up the arrears. BMWFS said it would only 
reinstate the agreement if Mr D could clear all the arrears, but Mr D wasnt in a position to do 
that. Had the agreement not already been terminated, I think asking Mr D to clear all the 
arrears in one go wouldnt have been particularly fair on him if hed have been able to clear 
them within a reasonable amount of time. The problem I have is that the agreement had 
already been terminated at this point. And, while I can appreciate why Mr D doesnt agree, I 
dont think that was unreasonable from BMWFS  at the time. His arrears were getting 
worse, hed shown he was in deficit on his income and expenditure, and so BMWFS took the 
decision to draw a line under things. It wasnt until after the agreement had been terminated 
that BMWFS found out Mr D was back in work. While it may seem unfair BMWFS asked for 
all the arrears to be cleared in one go, I dont think the termination was necessarily wrong  
based on what BMWFS saw at the time. It tried to speak to Mr D before terminating the 
agreement to look at options for him. And it gave him two weeks longer than was set on the 
default notice before doing so. BMWFS wasnt contractually required to reinstate the 
agreement. So, while I know it must have been upsetting, I think that was broadly fair. 
Taking all this into account, while Im very sympathetic to the situation, I dont find I have the 
grounds to direct BMWFS to take action, or to direct it to do what Mr D wants. Im not 
disputing Mr D kept BMWFS informed what was happening in 2022. But BMWFS gave Mr D 
forbearance. And at the key time  after it received the income and expenditure form, and up 
to the point it terminated the agreement  I cant see it acted unfairly. 
Im not proposing to direct BMWFS to take any action. For the avoidance of doubt  Im only 
considering its actions to the point of the final response letter. If Mr D is unhappy with 
anything after that point, hed need to take it up with BMWFS in the first instance, and if hes 
unhappy with its response, it might be something our service is able to consider for him.  Id 
remind BMWFS to treat Mr D with forbearance and due consideration with regards to any 
arrears and whats left owing.
I cant see weve received a response from BMWFS. 
Mr D has responded to say, in summary, he wants BMWFS to come to an arrangement with 
him. It sounds like he wants it to sell the car and clear the debt or come to an arrangement 
with him so he can keep it. He said the matter caused him distress, hes unhappy its 
affected his credit file, and he wants the arrears accrued while he was unwell to be cleared. 
Hes also reiterated he has regular income and hes in need of a car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr D for his response. I want to reiterate Im very sorry to hear he was unwell 
and that it impacted his ability to pay towards his finance agreement. I dont underestimate how important having a vehicle is to him.
I also need to highlight again that Im considering what happened up to the point BMWFS 
sent Mr D its final response letter. This is important to get across. Mr D is setting out he 
wants to come to some sort of arrangement with BMWFS. But hed need to speak to 
BMWFS about that in the first instance. And if hes unhappy with how it responds, it may be 
something our service is able to consider for him. But the purpose of this complaint is for me 
to consider how BMWFS dealt with Mr Ds complaint relating to the support it offered him in 
2022 and up to the point it issued a final decision in March 2023. 
Ive set out that I think BMWFS broadly treated Mr D fairly in 2022 by offering him 
forbearance and due consideration. I explained that on balance, based on what it knew at 
the time, its decision to terminate wasnt unreasonable. And Ive not been supplied anything 
further to lead me to change my conclusions on that. I also dont have the grounds to direct 
BMWFS to remove arrears for the time Mr D was unwell, or to amend the credit file for that 
period. Mr D was contracted to make those payments, and its fair he pays for his use of the 
car during that period.
It's my role to consider the complaint that BMWFS has already had the chance to look into. 
Thats why Ive considered what happened up to the final response letter. I appreciate a lot 
has happened since March 2023. And that Mr D now wants to come to some sort of 
arrangement with BMWFS. That scenario hasnt played out yet. And for the reasons given 
above, I cant deal with that in this decision. For the complaint I can deal with, I think 
BMWFS broadly treated Mr D fairly. So Im not going to direct it to take any action for what 
happened up until its final response in March 2023. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman