DRN-2039046
 
The complaint
Company P has complained that Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox), a broker, failed 
to notify it of a change in its professional insurance portfolio policy and more specifically 
an enhancement to the legal expenses cover.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June this year. An extract from that 
decision follows: 
"P had a professional insurance portfolio policy which it took out through a broker, W in 
2008. The policy included professional indemnity cover and commercial legal protection. 
They were each underwritten by different insurers. Hiscox was the broker who was 
responsible for administering the policies on behalf of the separate insurers.
After being made aware of court proceedings against it about a delayed lease extension, 
P made a claim on its legal expenses policy in 2019 which was referred to the relevant 
insurer, D. D turned the claim down because it said that the policy excluded contract 
disputes relating to a lease or tenancy of land or buildings other than a dispute with a 
professional advisor in connection with the drafting of a lease, licence or tenancy agreement. 
P told D that it wasnt aware of this policy term.
After some enquiries it transpired that when the policy was first taken out it didnt 
cover contract disputes or debt recovery. But in 2016 the insurer enhanced the cover to 
include these, but that contract disputes cover didn't include cover for lease disputes. 
However, Hiscox didn't inform W of the enhanced cover.
P complained and said if it had known that the contract disputes cover and that it 
excluded disputes about leases, it wouldve taken extra cover that did provide that 
protection. And had it done so it wouldnt have found itself in a position where it had no cover 
to defend the proceedings issued against it.
Hiscox accepted that it hadnt told W about the change in the policy terms and 
apologised. But it said the claim would still not have been covered under the commercial 
legal protection policy because of the exclusions in relation to lease disputes.
P didnt agree and complained to us. The complaint was considered by two 
investigators. The first one thought the complaint should be rejected for the reasons that 
Hiscox provided. The second investigator thought the complaint should be upheld because 
had P been made aware of the exclusions it wouldve, on balance, sought to take out cover 
that didnt have those limitations. He said Hiscox should consider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
Hiscox didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im considering 
not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate P has made a number of complaints to us in relation to this dispute. In 
this decision I am only looking into its complaint against Hiscox and about the fact that it 
didnt make it aware of the change in the policy terms.
Those who arrange and sell insurance, such as brokers, have a duty to make those 
taking out insurance aware of any significant or unusual terms and limitations so that they 
can make an informed choice. But even where they dont, we still have to consider whether 
those who took the policy out have been put in a worse position and whether they wouldve 
acted differently had they been given all the necessary information.
Hiscox accepts that it didnt make W and, therefore, P aware of the contract 
disputes extension on the commercial legal expense cover until P made a claim on its legal 
expenses policy. From what Hiscox has said the enhancement was made due to a general 
demand by consumers for contract disputes cover.
From what I understand, prior to the 2019 proceedings P didnt enquire about or ask 
for contract disputes cover. And as I said above, Hiscox said this was something the 
insurer added on the existing legal expenses policy on its own volition and without P asking 
for it. So I cant see that it was something that P told Hiscox or W that it needed at any point 
prior to the legal dispute. For this reason I think, on balance, even if P had been told about 
the contracts dispute cover when the change was made in 2016 I dont think it wouldve 
acted differently and sought alternative contract disputes cover that also included lease 
disputes.
It follows that I dont think Hiscox failing to inform P or W put P in a worse position than 
it wouldve been in had it been informed of this enhancement in the policy cover in 2016. 
On balance, I dont think P wouldve sought cover for lease disputes until the 2019 legal 
dispute arose.
For these reasons, I dont think this is a complaint I can uphold, because I dont 
think Hiscoxs actions prejudiced P.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, Im not considering upholding this complaint."
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to change any of the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. 
Hiscox agreed with my provisional decision and said it had no comments to make. 
P also responded but didnt agree with my provisional decision. It made a number of 
comments including the following:
It didnt think wed fully understood its complaint and said that our investigator had 
made factual errors in his view. It asked for and thought had bought an insurance policy that covered all its actions 
within its area of business. If a policy doesnt meet its requirements it expects its 
broker to make it aware.
Its not possible for me to know what its response would have been had it been told 
about the changes to the policy. It would have made enquiries with another broker it 
uses to ensure that it was covered.
P said we didnt fully understand its complaint. It said our investigator said there was a 
dispute with the other sides legal representative which wasnt the case and also that it 
initiated the legal claim which again wasnt the case. It says it was simply defending a claim 
against it and was seeking to recover its legal costs from its insurer. It also said this wasnt a 
contract dispute as it didnt have a contract with the party that started the proceedings 
against it. 
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that P had made a legal expenses claim after 
being made aware of court proceedings against it. And by that I meant that I appreciate that 
it wasnt the one that commenced the proceedings. I also understand that Ps claim was for 
the legal fees it paid out in order to defend the claim against it. As this decision isnt about 
the claim itself I didnt go into further detail about it.
P said it asked for an all encompassing policy that would cover it in every aspect of its work. 
In this decision Im not looking at the original sale of the policy which as far as I understand 
wasnt done by Hiscox in any event. I am looking at Hiscoxs actions when it failed to update 
P about the change in policy terms and how that affected P. P is saying this wasnt a 
contract dispute in any event. This isnt something I want to comment on as it is a matter for 
the insurer but if it wasnt a contract dispute then P wouldnt have been able to rely on the 
contract dispute cover in any event, even if the policy didnt exclude lease disputes.
P believes that its policy should have covered it for this dispute. As far as I am aware it only 
made a claim under its legal expenses cover. If it believes that there is cover under a 
different section, for example under the professional indemnity cover, it is free to raise this 
with the relevant insurer. 
P doesnt agree with my conclusion that even if it had been made aware of the enhancement 
it wouldnt have sought to take out another or an additional policy. It is a long standing 
approach of ours to consider whether, on balance, we think that a consumer has been put in 
a worse position by a businesss (in this case a brokers) actions. And for the reasons I gave 
in my provisional decision I dont think Hscoxs actions did so in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman