DRN-4056059
The complaint
Mrs C complains SteadyPay Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs C applied to join SteadyPay in August 2020. SteadyPay gave her a credit limit of £1,000
for her top-up facility. Each month it worked out Mrs Cs average pay for the last three
months and if she was paid below that, she would be offered a top-up. If Mrs C accepted this
top-up, it would be paid into her bank account. Mrs C would then need to pay this back in
instalments.
Mrs C was also able to request a top-up of up to £50 whenever she wanted (so long as it
wouldnt take her over the £1,000 limit)  SteadyPay calls these early top-ups. This type of
top-up had to be repaid before it was a requested again.
For this credit facility, Mrs C was charged a subscription of £4 a week but no interest was
charged.
SteadyPay advanced Mrs C the following top-ups:
Date Amount
11 September 2020 £50
2 October 2020 £160
28 November 2020 £250
6 January 2021 £50
27 January 2021 £50
27 February 2021 £200
30 March 2021 £130
Mrs C says SteadyPay lent to her irresponsibly. She says she couldnt afford to repay the
top-ups and SteadyPay shouldnt have offered them to her.
SteadyPay says when Mrs C joined, it performed a credit check and affordability
assessment. It says no flags were raised  her lending was within acceptable limits given her
income, which it had visibility over, she had no debt collectors or active CCJs/IVAs
registered against her, and an above average credit score. It says Mrs C had the option to
decline any and all top-ups. So it didnt uphold her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
SteadyPay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs C
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs C would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out before offering someone credit.
But Id think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower an applicants income because it could be more difficult to make the 
repayments as a result;
the higher the amount repayable because it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment, especially from a lower level of income;
the longer the term it needed to be repaid over, because the total cost of the credit 
was likely to have been greater given the longer time over which repayments have to 
be made.
So what all of this means is that a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need
for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate where the amount
to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be
indebted for a relatively short period.
SteadyPay did complete some checks before it agreed Mrs C could join and it offered her
credit. It connected to her bank account so was able to see exactly how much she had been
paid in the months leading up to her application  an average of just over £1,500 a month in
the three months before. And it did a credit check, which, from what Ive seen, didnt
highlight any signs she was in financial or repayment difficulties.
Given the factors Ive set out above, I think these checks were reasonable and proportionate
 the maximum Mrs C would be borrowing at any one time was £1,000, which is a relatively
low amount. And her income was such that it wouldnt suggest shed have difficulties
repaying any top-ups, which were unlikely to be as much as £1,000 at any one time.
Our investigator thought Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld because, from information we
had about Mrs Cs credit history, she thought there were signs she wouldnt be able to afford
to repay the credit. Shed had some previous accounts defaulted, which the investigator
thought suggested Mrs C might have difficulties repaying any credit from SteadyPay.
But this wasnt information SteadyPay obtained when it did its credit check. And as I think
the checks it did do were reasonable and proportionate, there wasnt any reason why it
ought to have discovered these previous issues.
With any sort of revolving credit, such as this, I would expect the lender to monitor the
customers repayment record and any other relevant information it holds and take
appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible financial difficulties. And it
appears SteadyPay did this. It did further checks before agreeing to any top-ups and,
despite Mrs C previously paying the instalments when they were due, the last top-up it
offered Mrs C in March 2021 was lower than the actual difference between her pay and
average salary because of other information it held. So Im satisfied it met its obligations in
this regard.
I do want to address SteadyPays point about Mrs C having the option to decline the top-ups
she was offered if she couldnt afford to repay them. Just because Mrs C accepted the top-
ups that were offered, doesnt absolve SteadyPay of its obligations to lend responsibly. After
all, someone who is in financial difficulties is unlikely to turn down extra money if its offered
to them. They are unlikely to be weighing up whether they can afford to repay it or not,
theyre more likely to see it as a solution to their immediate problems.I appreciate Mrs C hasnt been able to repay all the credit she was given by SteadyPay but
this alone wouldnt be enough for me to say SteadyPay did anything wrong. I understand
SteadyPay has now obtained a County Court Judgement for the outstanding balance. I
would encourage Mrs C to engage with the Court and SteadyPay about this.
Neither Mrs C nor SteadyPay responded by the deadline I set in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither SteadyPay nor Mrs C have provided any new evidence or arguments in response 
to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
It follows that for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Im satisfied the checks SteadyPay did before offering Mrs C credit were 
reasonable and proportionate. I also think it met its obligations to monitor her repayment 
record and any other relevant information it held and take appropriate action where there are 
signs of actual or possible financial difficulties.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman