DRN-4411604
The complaint
Mrs O has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) unfairly turned down her complaint 
made about something bought using her credit card.
What happened
In 2012, Mrs O, alongside another, purchased holiday club membership from a business Ill 
call Business D. This cost £5,950 and was paid in part by Mrs O using her BoS credit 
card.1 But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to Business D, rather it went to a 
different business Ill call Business F.
In 2016, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs O made a claim to BoS under s.75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mrs O said Business D made 
misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, BoS was jointly responsible 
to answer. She also said Business D breached its agreement it had with her. 
BoS didnt accept the claim made, saying there wasnt enough to say there had been any 
misrepresentations made or any breach of contract. But it also considered a complaint that 
the claim hadnt been investigated properly, but didnt agree it should be upheld. Unhappy 
with the response, PR referred Mrs Os complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think BoS needed to do 
anything further. He didnt think there was enough to say the s.75 CCA claim should have 
been accepted. But he also considered whether the sale gave rise to an unfair debtor- 
creditor relationship under s.140A CCA, but didnt think it had.
PR said that Mrs O didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. In doing so it provided substantial submission as to why it thought the 
problems with Business D membership led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
s.140A CCA.
I issued a provisional decision as, although I agreed with our investigator that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld, I did so for different reasons. 
I explained that when I decide complaints, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
1 Although the membership was in two names, as the card used was Mrs Os, only she is able to 
make this complaint
PR brought a claim on Mrs Os behalf under s.75 CCA and I thought it was helpful to set out 
the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c)  as, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreementI thought that the upshot of this was that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for 
the lender (here BoS) to be liable to the borrower (here Mrs O) for the misrepresentations or 
breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business D). But, on the face of it, there were no 
such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business D wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier isnt 
paid directly using a credit card. I said that the law in this area had been clarified since our 
investigators view by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] 
EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S agreement in 
circumstances where Business F took payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of 
timeshare membership from a Business called C. The court considered the arrangements 
between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to C was made outside of the credit 
card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
I said the circumstances of Mrs Os case are very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mrs Os purchase of Business D holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
PR argued that Business F and Business D were associates as Business D controls 
Business F. Associates is defined in s.184 CCA, in particular:
(3) A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate 
(a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one 
and persons who are his associates, or he and persons who are his 
associates, are controllers of the other; or
(b) if a group of two or more persons is a controller of each company, and the 
groups either consist of the same persons or could be regarded as consisting 
of the same persons by treating (in one or more cases) a member of either 
group as replaced by a person of whom he is an associate.
So here, I thought it would need to be shown that one (or more) people were controllers of 
both Business D and Business F (defined further in s.189 CCA). PR pointed to parts of the 
Trust Deed that it showed Business F was effectively working for Business D, for example 
Business F denied responsibility for any losses suffered and it was to be paid for its work by 
Business D. But I thought this shows the contractual relations between two parties  I 
couldnt see that any one person (or group of people) were controllers of the two businesses 
or that they were associated in any other way. So I didnt think there was enough here to say 
there was in fact a valid D-C-S agreement.
In the investigators view and in PRs response to it, there was discussion on whether there 
was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mrs O and BoS arising out of the 
purchases under s.140A CCA. This wasnt something ever put to BoS before, so it hadnt 
had the chance to consider it. However, I thought it was fair in the circumstances of Mrs Os 
case to go on to look at that claim and I didnt think BoS was prejudiced by me doing so.2 I 
said that as I could only consider how the agreements between Mrs O and Business D 
affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor relationship if there was a valid D-C-S agreement 
in place. And, as already explained, I didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had 
Mrs O suggested there was an unfair relationship for any other reason.
2 BoS responded to my provisional decision and it didnt object to me considering this part of the 
complaint. I explained that under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to 
my own determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt 
think it would be fair to make BoS responsible for Business Ds alleged failures when the law 
doesnt impose such a liability. I couldnt see that BoS and Business D were connected in 
any way nor was there any other reason to say BoS should be responsible for Business Ds 
alleged failings.
It followed that I didnt think BoS needed to answer the claims made.
BoS responded to say it had nothing further to add to what Id said. PR didnt respond on 
Mrs Os behalf. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been given nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman