DRN-3955676
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated him unfairly when charging more for his 
first monthly payment on his new mortgage. 
What happened
Mr D completed a mortgage application through a broker for a mortgage with HSBC in May 
2022. When the application was completed the offer letter confirmed there would be 62 
monthly payments of £714.30 (while the fixed rate period was in place). After this expires, 
the payment would change to £824.63.
Mr D received a letter in August from HSBC  when the mortgage had completed. This 
confirmed the payment hed need to make. This letter said the monthly payment on 1 
October will be higher than the normal monthly payments because interest is included from  
when the loan started as well as the payment for the following month.
Mr D didnt think this was clearly explained previously or that it was fair he needed to pay the 
higher amount. He believes the amount detailed in his offer letter when the mortgage was 
agreed is the amount he should pay. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said they didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. Interest had been added in line with the terms of the mortgage and these conditions 
make it clear that the monthly payment amount can vary for the first and last mortgage 
payment. So HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when it increased the first monthly payment 
to allow for the additional interest accrued based on the date the payment was taken in 
comparison to when the funds were drawn down. This is because the mortgage completed 
in late August but the first mortgage payment wasnt made until 1 October 2022.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked when HSBC should have told him 
about this increased payment. Our investigator explained that the relevant information was 
sent to Mr Ds broker when the application was accepted and they had been provided with 
the information to share with Mr D about how the mortgage would operate, including the fact 
that the first payment could vary from the standard monthly payment amount. So he didnt 
think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr D still disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator.
The mortgage was not sold by HSBC, but through a broker. So HSBC isnt responsible for 
providing information at the point of sale about how the mortgage will operate to Mr D. 
Instead it provides this information to the broker to allow it to share this with Mr D. Im 
satisfied it did everything it needed to here in regard to this.
The terms and conditions for the mortgage explain that with the first or last monthly payment, 
HSBC may require an adjusted payment to reflect the interest for the period between 
completion and first payment date. This isnt an unusual or uncommon condition.
HSBC wrote to Mr D after his mortgage had completed to explain what hed need to pay for 
the first monthly payment and that this had increased because of the additional interest 
added between the completion and the first payment date. 
As Ive said, HSBC didnt need to provide any notice to Mr D at the point of sale about the 
mortgage and how it would work as this was the responsibility of the broker. And Ive not 
seen anything to demonstrate that HSBC has acted unfairly when its varied this payment as 
it did.
When the mortgage completed HSBC gave notice of the varied payment for the first month 
ahead of the payment being taken as it was responsible at this point for providing Mr D with 
information about his mortgage and any changes to it. Its done what it needed to here and 
Im satisfied it has acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman