DRN-1581211
 
The complaint
Miss G and Mr P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
What happened
Miss G and Mr P took out a PPI policy alongside a joint mortgage in 2002. 
The policy protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr P couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss G and Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. 
Miss G and Mr P told us they remember feeling under pressure to take out PPI  but say 
they didn't agree to it and only recently found out it was added to their mortgage account. 
They mainly complain that the PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss G and Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss G and Mr P to remember exactly what was 
discussed so long ago when they took out the policy. This means that what they say about 
the way they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. 
On their loan application form, Miss G and Mr P were offered the option to say whether or 
not they wished to apply for PPI. So although I don't know what, if anything, was said about 
the PPI, I think they wouldve seen that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have it. 
And, on balance, at the time I think that Miss G and Mr P wouldve understood that PPI 
wasnt something they had to have with the mortgage  it was an option they could choose if 
they wanted.  Although they didnt indicate any preference on the mortgage application, it looks like they 
decided to apply for PPI. They filled in their details and they both signed a separate PPI 
application form in order to take out cover. They applied for cover jointly  although in the 
event the policy they actually took out just covered Mr P as only he was eligible for it, given 
that Miss G wasnt in paid work at the time. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Miss G and Mr Ps home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent 
kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and taking into account everything theyve 
told us about their circumstances, it looks like the policy offered them significantly better 
protection than they had otherwise. So, I can see why Miss G and Mr P mightve felt PPI was 
useful to have.
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened such a long 
time ago. But, based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Miss G and Mr P 
decided they wanted the benefits that PPI offered when they took out their mortgage. And, 
on balance, I find that it was added to their mortgage account when they chose to buy the 
policy  knowing it was up to them to say if they wanted to take it out.
Lloyds says it wouldve advised Miss G and Mr P to have PPI. And it looks to me like that 
recommendation was suitable based on what Ive seen of Miss G and Mr Ps circumstances 
at the time. I think its likely that they wouldve found it hard to afford to keep up the monthly 
mortgage repayments without Mr Ps income coming into the household as only he was in 
paid work at the time.   
Ive taken into account what Ive been told about Mr Ps sick pay. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of his sick pay  and for longer - up to 12 months per claim. This couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Miss G and Mr P faced extra costs 
as a result of Mr P being sick or disabled.
And the PPI wouldve also paid out (after just 60 days off work) if Mr P lost his job 
unexpectedly and became unemployed.  
As no job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely I think this couldve been useful cover 
for Miss G and Mr P to have. I accept Mr P mightnt have had any reason to think hed have 
faced much difficulty finding a new job if he was made unemployed. But the policy wouldve 
protected him if he was disabled or too sick to work as well. 
The monthly benefit paid out on this policy wouldve covered Miss G and Mr Ps mortgage 
repayments and also paid some extra to help them with their household bills and other costs. 
If theyd taken out home insurance with the lender the PPI would've also paid those monthly 
premiums for them as well. And Mr P couldve made multiple claims on the policy if hed 
needed to. So the policy gave Miss G and Mr P long term protection for their mortgage plus 
some extra financial help. I think that couldve been an important consideration for them at 
the time. 
Although Miss G and Mr P mentioned having other cover in place, this doesnt affect my 
decision. I havent seen anything to show that they already had PPI cover in place that 
covered their mortgage monthly repayments or that this policy duplicated existing cover. 
They told us the other policy they had covered the mortgage in the event of illness or death. 
So it sounds like the cover theyve described provided critical illness and life cover  in other 
words, its a policy that wouldve paid out if Mr P was diagnosed with a long term illness that 
prevented him from ever being likely to return to work or in the event of death. So it offered a 
different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances to PPI. Miss G and Mr P also had some savings. But there was no guarantee when they took out 
this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on. They told us that theyd kept 
back money from the sale of a previous property as an emergency fund. Having PPI meant 
Miss G and Mr P could keep their savings secure in the long term as they wouldnt have 
been forced to use this money to pay the mortgage. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable for Miss G and Mr P.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mr P was affected by 
any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits. So, I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected Miss G and Mr Ps decision 
to take it out.
I dont know if Miss G and Mr P knew how much PPI would cost them when they took it out. 
But they set up payment arrangements with their bank when they applied for the policy  so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover and were happy to pay for it at the time. It seems 
to have been affordable for them when they took it out.  
Looked at overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was 
sold. But I think Miss G and Mr P still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr P even if 
theyd been better informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
I dont think better information wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered 
them.
So I dont find that Miss G and Mr P have lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did 
wrong. This means that it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Miss G and Mr P have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they 
feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman