DRN-4293544
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer) handled a claim under his home insurance policy.
References to Chaucer include their agents who administer the policy.
This decision only covers those issues raised by Mr P in a complaint to Chaucer in February 
2023 and their response in March 2023. It doesnt cover issues raised by Mr C covering the 
period May 2022 to Chaucers final response in October 2022, which were considered in a 
separate complaint to this service. References to this period are included as background and 
context to Mr Ps current complaint.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr Ps property was burgled. The burglary caused damage to windows and 
doors at the property as well as to a garage door and wall. Mr P contacted Chaucer to tell 
them about the burglary and lodge a claim. He also provided photographs and invoices 
relating to contents that had been stolen or damaged. He also provided a crime reference 
number he was given by the police. He also provided two quotes, as requested by Chaucer, 
for the repairs needed because of the burglary.
Chaucer appointed a loss adjuster (D) to assess the damage and validate the claim. D 
visited the property in July 2022, discussing the burglary and damage with Mr P and taking 
photographs. Mr P also provided invoices for the items damaged and stolen. D also provided 
a settlement offer for the buildings element of the claim (£3,300 less the policy excess of 
£100). However, Mr P wasnt happy with the settlement, asking how it was arrived at. And 
having provided what he thought was all the invoices and other information needed to 
validate the claim. Unhappy at the time being taken to assess and validate his claim, he 
complained to Chaucer (August 2022). Chaucer subsequently responded to the complaint 
(October 2022), offering £50 compensation for delays and distress.
Unhappy at further delays assessing and validating the claim, Mr P made a further complaint 
to Chaucer in February 2023. Chaucer didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response 
(March 2023) they said D contacted Mr P after their response in October 2022, to arrange a 
visit to his property to complete an assessment of the full value at risk (the figures recorded), 
as the figures provided by Mr P werent in line with what Chaucer considered to be the 
current cost of replacing, as new, the damaged or stolen items. D asked Mr P for receipts for 
the furniture he purchased to validate their replacement cost. But as Mr P hadnt provided 
either an amended Value at Risk form or original receipts for the damaged items of furniture, 
D hadnt been able to progress their assessment and validation of the claim.
Mr P then complained to this service. He also said his wife, who was in the late stages of 
pregnancy at the time of the burglary, had suffered from severe postnatal depression and 
the delays in assessing the claim had added to the stress .He wanted to be fully reimbursed 
for the losses from the burglary, based on the invoices and quotes hed provided. Nor did he 
think it reasonable to expect invoices for all the contents added since the birth of his baby 
and receipts for furniture acquired many years ago. He also didnt think it reasonable to 
request a visit to his property, given his wifes depression and a young baby. He also wanted 
compensation of 10% on the value of the claim, as well as £500 for the cost of his time 
bringing his complaint.. 
Mr P subsequently raised a further point of complaint in respect of the buildings element of 
his claim, saying hed obtained quotes from contractors for replacement of damaged 
windows and doors (£5,850); repairs to the brickwork around the garage door (£5,409 
excluding VAT); and a replacement garage door (£1,680). But Chaucer hadnt settled the 
buildings element of his claim, which he considered to constitute essential works to secure 
his property (given the presence of a new baby).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Chaucer didnt need to take any 
further action. She thought Chaucer hadnt acted unreasonably in requesting further 
information from Mr P, given the policy required Mr P to cooperate with Chaucer (with D0 
and the discrepancy noted by D between the amount insured (£10,000) and the damaged or 
stolen contents (£1,700). She also noted Mr P had (following Chaucers second final 
response) agreed to a visit by D (though an appointment hadnt been arranged).
On the buildings element of the complaint, our investigator noted Chaucers position that due 
to a possible underinsurance issue and the need to investigate this aspect of the claim, they 
hadnt authorised any work to proceed and hadnt received any invoices or quotes. As the 
claim was under investigation, the investigator didnt think Chaucer had acted unreasonably 
in not making any payments.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. On the buildings element of the claim, He said hed provided Chaucer with the 
quotes hed received. Hed also challenged Ds initial offer of £3,300 and hadnt been 
provided with a breakdown. He was also unhappy at  having agreed in March 2023 to a 
visit from D to assess the claim  an appointment hadnt been arranged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say to Mr P that Ive considered very carefully what hes told us about his 
circumstances, including his wifes postnatal depression and the stress to her and himself. I 
recognise this would have made it a difficult time for him and his family, adding to what 
would have been the impact of having his property burgled and things damaged and stolen. I 
also appreciate making a claim and having it assessed can inherently be challenging. Ive 
borne this in mind when considering, as is my role here, deciding whether Chaucer have 
acted fairly towards Mr P.
The key issue in Mr Ps complaint is the time taken for his claim to be assessed and 
validated  specifically from the point Chaucer issued their first final response in October 
2022. Its also worth noting Mr Ps earlier complaint was considered by this service and the 
investigator concluded Chaucer should pay £200 in compensation for delays in assessing 
and validating the claim. Mr P accepted the investigators view and the case was closed. 
In considering Mr Ps current complaint (made to this service after Chaucers final response 
issued in March 2023) Ive considered the sequence of events from the date of Chaucers 
initial final response. On the contents element of the claim, D considered the contents cover 
under the policy (£10,000) to be inadequate D asked Mr P to complete a Value at Risk form. 
However, the form completed by Mr P was considered by D to contain unrealistic values, 
which is why they asked Mr P to complete the form with what they (D) considered to be realistic values and to include all contents being claimed for. Alternatively, D offered to visit 
Mr Ps property to complete the form. Mr P said he felt harassed by D and their request, 
saying he was raising a complaint with this service. Thereafter, the claim was paused until 
our investigators view about the first complaint to this service. 
Looking at the sequence of events and the exchanges between Mr P and D, I havent seen 
anything in them which could reasonably considered to be harassment of Mr P. I recognise 
what Mr P has told us about his wifes postnatal depression and the difficulties it presented. 
But equally, I dont think it unreasonable for Chaucer (through D) to seek to validate Mr Ps 
claim, given concerns they had about its validity and the values claimed by Mr P. Chaucers 
case notes indicate the total claim was for £20,472 which they considered needed adjusting 
for what they considered to be maintenance-related repairs under the buildings element and 
repairs far over their liability as insurers. Given their concerns, I dont think it unreasonable 
for them to have appointed a loss adjuster to assess and validate the claim, nor for them (D) 
to contact Mr P with the requests they made.
Its also a condition of the policy that policyholders must co-operate with Chaucer (and/or 
their representatives) in respect of a claim. The relevant policy term is contained in the 
Claims Procedures and Conditions section and states:
9. You must co-operate with us (and our appointed representatives if this applies) in 
investigating and assessing any claim or circumstances which may lead to a claim. 
This may include checking the information you gave us when you applied for this 
insurance.
If you fail to meet all of these conditions, we may refuse to pay the claim or pay only 
part of your claim.
Ive seen an email exchange between D and Mr P and D, where D reminds Mr P its a 
condition of the policy that he co-operates in assessing the claim, referring to the above 
condition. I dont think thats unreasonable given the circumstances set out above. Looking 
at the exchanges, I dont think D have been unreasonable and the tone is professional. 
While I appreciate Mr P sees it differently, given the circumstances with his wife and having 
a new baby, I dont think theres anything in what D have said thats intimidating or could be 
construed to be harassment.
Ive also noted Mr P agreeing to a visit by D to further assess and validate his claim. Given 
the points Ive noted above, I think thats a reasonable outcome and Id expect Chaucer to 
arrange a visit, alongside their assessment of the claim (for potential underinsurance).
On the buildings element, I recognise Mr Ps concern that he hasnt had a settlement from 
Chaucer. Ive noted their initial offer was withdrawn because of their concerns about 
underinsurance. Ive also noted Ds comment about what they think could be maintenance-
related elements of the claim (which the policy wouldnt cover). As underinsurance could 
affect the value of any settlement of the claim (should Chaucer determine Mr P was 
underinsured) I dont think it unreasonable for them to conclude their investigation before 
deciding whether the accept (and settle) Mr Ps claim.
These points taken together lead me to conclude Chaucer have dealt fairly with Mr Ps 
claims and its reasonable for them to conclude their investigation of the issues and 
concerns theyve identified. But, given the time since the burglary, Id expect them to 
conclude their investigation and to decide whether to accept and settle Mr Ps claim (and if 
so, at what value) within a reasonable timescale. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman