DRN-3013422
The complaint
Miss H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-led her into thinking the term was reducing on her 
mortgage, and she was shocked to discover in October 2020 that the term had remained the 
same.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The underlying facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The information given to Miss H on the phone in 2018 was correct at the time. Shed made 
sum lump sum payments and was making monthly overpayments. If shed continued to pay 
at the level she was paying at then her mortgage would have been repaid early as she was 
told.
Unfortunately in May 2019 Miss H stopped making the higher payments and reverted to just 
paying the contractual monthly payment.
The contractual monthly payment is calculated based on the term agreed in the contract, 
and here that was a 20-year term from 2017. Because of the overpayments Miss H had 
made, the contractual monthly payment was then set at a lower level. This was because 
Miss H had paid more off her mortgage than she needed to under the contract at that time 
so the contractual monthly payment was adjusted to ensure the mortgage would still run for 
the full 20-year term. 
This can be seen by the fact the original mortgage offer said the payments for this part of the 
mortgage would be £463 a month. But in June 2019 (following all the overpayments, and the 
mortgage then being recalculated to see what the contractual mortgage payment needed to 
be to maintain the original 20-year term) this dropped to £348 a month  a decrease of £115 
a month. If Miss H wanted her mortgage to end early, then she needed to maintain her 
payments at £463 a month as set out in the original contract.
Its clear there was confusion here but having considered everything I dont think Barclays 
told Miss H that she could reduce her payment as she did in 2019 whilst still repaying her 
mortgage early. 
For these reasons, although I understand Miss Hs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman