DRN-1694195
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs C bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt find that the policy had been mis-sold. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I've set out my reasons below.
Mrs C says she doesn't remember the PPI being offered during the credit card 
application process. But Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card 
application process where PPI wouldve been offered to Mrs C. This shows that she 
wouldve had to choose whether she wanted PPI or not before she could continue 
with her application. Canada Squares record of the application data shows that Mrs 
C selected the PPI. So I think Canada Square made her aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it - although I can understand why Mrs C may no 
longer remember this.
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. So it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs C had to cover 
her repayments. 
 
But even if Canada Square had recommended the PPI to Mrs C, it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs C has told 
me she was entitled to statutory sick pay if she couldnt work. But the PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to Mrs C's statutory benefits, and would've meant she could use those benefits to 
pay for other expenses. 
So overall, I think Mrs C wouldve had some use for the policy. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. The PPI was 
also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs C off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Canada Square has said it will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Canada Square 
didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has said it will pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Canada Square 
Operations Limited should pay this amount to Mrs C if it has not already done so. I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman