DRN-3149170
The complaint
Ms Q complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined her claim against her medical 
insurance policy. She also complains that BUPA subsequently excluded certain cover on 
renewal.
Ms Qs mother, Mrs Q, is assisting Ms Q in bringing her complaint.
 
What happened
For several years, Ms Q had the benefit of a membership with BUPA as a dependant: her 
father was the main member. On renewal in early 2020, BUPA told Mrs Q that Ms Q no 
longer satisfied the age limits for the dependant membership. So, in January 2020, Ms Q 
took out BUPA membership which started on 28 February 2020. Miss Qs policy was 
underwritten, which means that she answered questions about her health. Ms Qs 
membership certificate for the new policy showed that the date of underwriting was           
1 December 2011.
On 27 February 2020, Ms Q had a smear test whilst she was visiting her GP for an 
unrelated matter. Theres been some confusion about when Ms Q received the test 
results, which Ill refer to in more detail below.
In March 2020, Ms Q made a claim against her policy in relation to treatment following her 
smear test result. BUPA declined the claim. It said that the condition was a
pre-existing condition and excluded from cover. BUPA also said Ms Q wasnt covered 
under her previous membership. I understand that Ms Q subsequently had treatment in 
the NHS.
Ms Q says BUPA treated her unfairly. She says that she had continuous cover with BUPA. 
Ms Q says that its only because BUPA insisted that she was no longer eligible for her 
previous membership that she had to take out new membership. She said that as BUPA 
refused her claim, incorrectly, shed like a refund of premium. Ms Q also says that on 
renewal in February 2021, BUPA excluded treatment relating to abnormal smear
tests, which she doesnt think is fair.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
treated Ms Q fairly. The investigator said Ms Q didnt have a pre-existing condition within the 
meaning set out in the policy. She said that Ms Q had answered the questions BUPA put to 
her to the extent of her knowledge at the time. The investigator said that BUPA should give 
Ms Q compensation of £100 and remove any exclusion it has applied to Ms Qs membership 
in relation to the abnormal smear test.
BUPA didnt agree with the investigator. It said that Ms Q had a pre-existing condition as the 
test which led to the request for cover was before the start date of Ms Qs membership. 
BUPA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 12 October 2021, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint but for different reasons than had been explained before. I 
said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms Qs membership, which provides cover 
for certain eligible treatment but doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. The relevant parts of 
the membership guide provide as follows:
Pre-existing condition any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years
before your Effective Underwriting Date
you have received medication, advice or Treatment or
you have experienced symptoms 
whether the condition was diagnosed or not
Treatment surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, 
illness or injury
Effective the date you [] started your [] continuous period of cover 
Underwriting Date under the policy, shown as your [] Effective underwriting
date on your Membership Certificate
This may be the date you [] originally joined BUPA or, if 
you [] transferred your cover from a Previous Policy the 
date of underwriting by the insurer or administrator of your 
Previous Policy.
Previous Policy another BUPA private medical insurance policy []
that we specifically agree will be treated as a previous 
policy for the purpose of assessing your [] Effective 
Underwriting Date or continuous periods of cover as 
applicable, provided that:
you have provided us with evidence of your 
continuous cover under the previous policy and
there is no break in your cover between the previous 
policy and this policy.
has BUPA acted unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Ms Qs complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated her fairly in 
declining her claim or in excluding treatment relating to abnormal smear tests on renewal 
in February 2021. Ill explain why:
Its common ground that Ms Qs smear test was on 27 February 2020. It appears 
to have been offered to her as part of the national screening program when she 
visited the surgery about another issue. Theres nothing to indicate that Ms Q had 
any symptoms which led her to seek a smear test.As I referred to above, theres been some confusion about the date Ms Q 
received her smear test results. Ms Q says  and I accept  that she didnt 
receive the results of that test until mid-March 2020. Ms Q has provided a screen 
shot of her GPs app which shows the results of her smear test dated                  
15 March 2020. I think it would be unusual to receive the results of a smear test 
on the same day as the test was administered. But I can see why BUPA thought 
that the results were on 27 February 2020 from the way Ms Qs GPs notes are 
presented  the GP entered the information about the result against the record of 
the test, but I dont think that means that Ms Q got the result of the test on the 
same day. Im satisfied that Ms Q received the smear test results in mid-March 
2020.
Ms Qs claim in March 2020 was made after her previous membership as a 
dependant ended. So, I dont think that BUPA was at fault in not dealing with     
Ms Qs claim under her earlier membership for the period February 2019 to 
February 2020.
BUPA says that Ms Qs membership starting on 28 February 2020 was a new, 
fully underwritten policy. Ive listened to the recording of the phone call in  
January 2020 in which BUPA asked Ms Q questions about her health. Ms Qs 
answers to those questions arent central to this complaint.
Ms Qs membership certificate for the policy year beginning February 2020 
shows the date of underwriting as 1 December 2011. So, Ms Q had continuous 
cover from 2011. BUPA hasnt said that it was a mistake to show the date of 
underwriting as 1 December 2011. So, the abnormal smear test results didnt 
predate Ms Qs cover, so its not a pre-existing condition within the meaning of 
the policy. I dont think that BUPA treated Ms Q fairly and reasonably in declining 
her claim.
As BUPA declined Ms Qs claim, she proceeded to have treatment in the NHS, 
which she would have preferred to avoid because of the risks of Covid-19. This 
no doubt added to Ms Qs distress at an already worrying time. I think that fair 
compensation for that is £200. I dont think that a fair resolution of the complaint 
requires BUPA to refund the premium. Ms Q still had the benefit of the 
membership for the policy year and I dont think theres any basis on which I 
could fairly direct BUPA to refund the premium.
At renewal in February 2021, BUPA excluded cover for any treatment related to 
an abnormal smear test. I asked BUPA to provide evidence to show that it would 
have applied that exclusion if it had, correctly, settled Ms Qs claim arising out of 
her smear test in 2020. BUPA didnt provide that evidence. So, based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think that BUPA treated Ms Q fairly in applying that exclusion.
Also, the membership certificate for the 2021 renewal shows that the exclusion 
for treatment relating to an abnormal smear test started on 28 February 2020. I 
dont think it was fair for BUPA to effectively backdate the exclusion in this case, 
so I dont think that BUPA can rely on that in relation to Ms Qs March 2020 claim.
Considering everything and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
BUPA treated Ms Q fairly or reasonably in declining her claim. I think that 
BUPAs decision caused Ms Q distress and inconvenience, for which fair 
compensation is £200. Also, I dont think that BUPA treated Ms Q fairly in 
applying the exclusion for treatment relating to an abnormal smear test, so it 
should provide Ms Q with a new certificate for the 2021/2022 policy year without 
that exclusion.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs Q said that they had no further comments. BUPA agreed with my provisional decision. It 
said that it made a mistake when Ms Q took out the policy in February 2020, as the effective 
underwriting date should have been recorded as 28 February 2020, not 1 December 2011. 
So, it gave Ms Q the impression that previous conditions were covered. BUPA said that it 
didnt notice this mistake earlier but now apologised for the distress and inconvenience its 
mistake caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms Q and Mrs Q have nothing further to add and BUPA agrees with my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. So, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that BUPA treated Ms Q fairly in declining her claim or in 
excluding treatment relating to abnormal smear tests on renewal in February 2021.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right, BUPA should pay Ms Q compensation of £200 and provide her 
with a new certificate for the 2021/2022 policy year without the exclusion for treatment 
relating to an abnormal smear test.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Qs complaint. BUPA Insurance Limited should now 
take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman