DRN-1914057
The complaint
Mr L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined a claim under his private health 
insurance and wants him to repay an earlier claim. My references to BUPA include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr L had private medical insurance through his employer. Mr L was the only person insured 
on the policy. BUPA was the insurer.     
Mr L phoned BUPA on 31 May 2019 about cover under the policy for in-vitro fertilisation 
(IVF) treatment he and his wife were about to have. Mr L says BUPA pre-authorised the 
treatment during the call
Following the treatment, in July 2019 Mr L claimed EUR 3,869.50 for treatment costs which 
BUPA paid in July. Unfortunately, the treatment was unsuccessful so Mr L and his wife had 
IFV treatment again. He submitted the second claim in August 2019 for EUR 5,016.69.
BUPA declined the second claim and asked Mr L to repay the money it had paid for the first 
claim. It said Mr Ls wife wasnt insured on the policy so her part of the treatment, which the 
above two claims were for, wasnt covered and it had only pre-authorised Mr Ls part of the 
treatment. BUPA apologised that it had mistakenly paid the first claim. BUPA confirmed it 
had covered and paid for Mr Ls own IVF treatment.
Mr L complained to us that BUPA had treated him unfairly. He said IVF treatment was 
covered by the policy, BUPA pre-authorised the treatment and BUPA accepted and paid for 
the first claim. He wants BUPA to pay the second claim and not seek repayment from him for 
the first claim. He highlighted that as well as the high costs involved the treatment was for a 
very sensitive subject for him and his wife.
Our investigator said BUPA had fairly declined the second claim and it was reasonable for 
BUPA to seek repayment of the first claim for Mr Ls wifes treatment. He thought BUPA 
should pay Mr L £150, or the equivalent in euros, for Mr Ls loss of expectation due to 
BUPAs mistake in paying the first claim.
BUPA accepted our investigators recommendation. It asked if it could deduct the £150 from 
the money it will seek to recover from Mr L.
Mr L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said hed received pre-
authorisation through his on-line membership account with BUPA on 31 May 2019 and his 
and his wifes decision to proceed with the planned IVF treatment was based on the pre-
authorisation. He queried that if BUPA hadnt authorised all the treatment what had been 
pre-authorised and what information had it sent him.
Before I made my decision I asked BUPA to provide the information Mr L would have seen  
about the pre-authorisation on his on-line membership account. BUPA said the pre-
authorisation document would have been on Mr Ls account which he would have to open, 
but as Mr Ls policy had ended in autumn 2019 it was unable to reproduce what the 
document would have shown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this is a sensitive matter for Mr L and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I have to 
decide whether BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably in respect of the claims, and I think it 
has. I think BUPA should pay Mr L compensation for his loss of expectation which is why Im 
partly upholding the complaint. Ill explain.
The policy covers IVF treatment, up to a policy limit each membership year. But Mr L was 
the only person insured on the policy which meant only his treatment was covered. His wife 
was not insured on the policy so there was no cover for her treatment.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr L and BUPA on Friday 31 May 2019. BUPA said it would 
pre-authorise Mr Ls treatment and it would send that to him in the next few minutes. 
The issue of Mr Ls wife not being on the policy was also discussed. Mr L told BUPA that as 
he was on the policy but his wife wasnt and she was part of the treatment that concerned 
him, and it was one of his questions. Mr L also referred to fertility treatment his wife recently 
had and asked if it was covered. BUPAs representative said he was unsure of the position 
so would email the medical policy team, it would take about 48 hours to respond so taking 
into account the weekend BUPA should be able to tell Mr L on Tuesday (which was four 
days later).
BUPA added the pre-authorisation code to Mr Ls on-line membership account on 31 May, 
the day of the phone conversation. Mr L sent us the screenshot of his account which says 
pre-authorisation activity 31 May 2019 outpatient and a code. BUPAs told us its system 
information shows the pre-authorisation entry was timed at 10.04am on 31 May and Mr L 
logged onto his membership account at 10.18am the same day.
Mr L believed the pre-authorisation code added to his on-line account meant all the 
treatment had been authorised, not just his treatment. Its frustrating for Mr L that BUPA 
cant provide the details of the information he saw when he opened the pre-authorisation 
document. But as Mr Ls wife wasnt insured on the policy Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not that the pre-authorisation information didnt say her treatment would be covered. 
Also, I think it was clear in the call that BUPA didnt authorise any treatment for Mr Ls wife. It 
told Mr L it would immediately send him the pre-authorisation for his treatment, which it did 
and thats the pre-authorisation Mr L saw on his on-line account. From BUPAs system 
information Mr L looked at his account just after the pre-authorisation was entered on 
31 May. I dont think Mr L could reasonably understand that the pre-authorisation on his 
account on 31 May related to treatment for his wife as BUPA had told him it needed to check 
the matter and would contact him about that four days later.
BUPA didnt get back to Mr L about covering his wifes treatment, and it should have done 
so. But Mr L never chased BUPA to get a response before his wife underwent treatment, 
and as Ive said I dont think he could reasonably understand that BUPA had pre-authorised 
her treatment on 31 May.
BUPA made a mistake in paying the first claim for Mr Ls wifes treatment, which shouldnt 
have happened. By doing so BUPA gave Mr L a false expectation that his wifes treatment was covered by the policy. But as Mr Ls wife wasnt covered by the policy, and I dont think 
Mr L could reasonably understand BUPA had pre-authorised her treatment, I think its 
reasonable for BUPA to seek to recover the payment it wrongly made to Mr L for the first 
claim. 
As Mr Ls wife wasnt covered by the policy, and I dont think Mr L could reasonably 
understand BUPA had pre-authorised her treatment, I think BUPA acted fairly in rejecting the 
second claim for Mr Ls wifes treatment.
Our investigator recommended BUPA pay Mr L £150 or the equivalent in euros for his loss 
of expectation, which BUPA agrees to do. The purpose of the compensation isnt to 
reimburse Mr L for costs which arent covered but to acknowledge his loss of expectation. 
I think £150 is a reasonable amount. 
BUPA has asked if it can deduct the £150 or euros equivalent from the money it will seek to 
recover from Mr L for the wrongly paid claim. Mr L hasnt commented on that proposal.
I think its fair for the two matters to be treated as separate. BUPA should pay the  
compensation to Mr L in sterling or euros, whichever he prefers. BUPA can address the 
matter of the repayment separately with Mr L.  
Putting things right
BUPA must pay Mr L £150 or the equivalent in euros, whichever he prefers, as 
compensation for his loss of expectation.    
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Mr L £150 or the equivalent in euros, whichever 
Mr L prefers, as compensation for his loss of expectation  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman