DRN-3102457
The complaint
C complains about the decision of U K Insurance Limited to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the main events relating to this complaint. 
The events have also included the involvement of third parties. But for the sake of simplicity, 
I have largely just referred to C and U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
C operates as a hotel and serviced apartment business, and held an industry specific 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by UKI. In March 2020, C was forced to close as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic and contacted UKI to claim for its losses. 
UKI declined the claim. UKI said COVID-19 and the pandemic generally had not resulted in 
damage, as defined by the policy, that had led to Cs losses. UKI also did not consider that 
the closure of C had been due to other sanitary arrangements. UKI said that the Public 
Emergency extension excluded cover for claims resulting from infectious or contagious 
disease. And that the Disease extension only provided cover for certain specified diseases 
 not including COVID-19.
Unhappy with this outcome, C ultimately brought its complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator was not persuaded that Cs complaint should be upheld. He did not think 
COVID-19 had caused damage as required by the policy, or that the restrictions imposed 
on C by the Government regulations introduced to control the spread of COVID-19 were due 
to defects in Cs sanitary arrangements. And he agreed that it was reasonable for UKI to 
apply the exclusion in the Public Emergency extension, and that the list of diseases in the 
Disease extension was exhaustive so didnt provide cover for COVID-19.
As C remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
C is represented in this complaint. Cs representative has submitted detailed arguments as 
to why it feels Cs claim should be met and the complaint upheld. The arguments submitted 
and pursued by Cs representative are largely the same arguments that it has submitted on 
other complaints from other policyholders.
The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that 
similar conclusions will be reached. Cs representative has had this services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, the 
same approach will be applied to this case. 
However, for the benefit of C, I will set out in this decision why its representatives arguments 
have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint.
Damage
The type of cover C is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy C took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Cs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by Damage to property. Damage is defined within the policy 
as: Accidental loss, destruction or damage. 
Cs representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, were 
Damage. It has argued that because the policy covers accidental damage, this means that, 
unless specifically excluded, any cause of Damage is covered and that this would include 
COVID-19 and its impact. It has said that this Damage does not need to be physical. 
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. I consider that loss, destruction, or 
damage as used in this policy is most likely to refer to something physical. The core 
business interruption cover requires the relevant Damage to have occurred to property. And 
I think a reasonable person, at the time this policy was taken out, would consider damage to 
property was something physical.
Cs representative has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to 
COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the 
cases referred to, as well as the rest of the current legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I 
agree with the Investigator that Damage, as it is required under the policy, would require 
either a physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage. 
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Cs property or the property of another. And I also dont consider 
that any specialist cleaning of such property was required. So, I dont think there was 
relevant damage, and I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably when declining Cs claim under 
the parts of the policy that required such damage. 
I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Cs premises (or the premises of their suppliers) would 
constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be more than a 
temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain  the basic principle being that the property 
damage sections in the policy would provide indemnity to replace that lost property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage as defined by the policy 
which has led to an interruption of Cs business. So, I dont think either the core business 
interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Cs claim. And I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting 
Cs claim under these areas of cover.
Sanitation 
One of the extensions to the business interruption section of Cs policy provides cover where 
there has been a closure of the insured premises as a result of, defective drains or other 
sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests.
Cs representative has said that the premises were closed for sanitary reasons because it 
was not safe for people to congregate in close proximity to one another. As such, it 
considers this subclause provides cover. 
It seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Cs premises. 
In determining this, amongst other things, Ive considered relevant case law, in particular the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor 
[2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a 
comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in this case in terms 
of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Cs policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Cs complaint.
The judge said, at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Cs policy was entered in February 2020, before any restrictions were introduced in the UK 
in relation to COVID-19. And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history 
as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, it was not in the UK. So, I am 
not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular wording of Cs policy in 
February 2020 would have considered this subclause to refer to an inability to enforce social 
distancing at Cs premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Cs representative considers the defect at Cs premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. C operates as a hotel and related business and no 
evidence has been provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary 
arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a 
defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Cs premises which led to its closure. I havent 
been provided with any evidence to suggest it was the circumstances at Cs premises in 
particular that led to the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did in 
March 2020. For these reasons, I consider UKIs decision to not to meet Cs claim under this section was 
fair and reasonable. 
Public Emergency
The extension to the business interruption section of Cs policy provides cover where a 
relevant authority has resulted in the business closing as a result of an emergency. 
However, the extension excludes a number of causes including, infectious or contagious 
disease. 
COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease. And the actions taken, and advice given, 
by the Government in March 2020, which led to Cs closure, were as a result of this disease. 
As such, I think the exclusion applies in the circumstances and I dont consider this 
extension provides cover for Cs claim. 
It follows that I dont consider UKI acted inappropriately in not meeting Cs claim under this 
extension. 
Disease
Cs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But, whilst the exclusion in the Public 
Emergency extension is for infectious or contagious diseases generally, the Disease 
extension is limited to providing cover in the event of certain specified diseases.
The Disease extension in Cs policy says cover is provided for, in part:
the occurrence of the following diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Ophthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Bubonic Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever, at 
the Premises;

Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided C with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for UKI to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
UKI intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. UKI deliberately 
chose to define the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
Cs representative has said it doesnt consider the list to be exhaustive. But I disagree. I 
dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. When coming to this conclusion, I have borne in mind the findings in 
Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company Limited [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm). 
This case considered different wording to that in Cs policy, but did relate to a policy with a 
similar list of diseases. The judge in that case commented on the wording that prefaced that 
list. And whilst the word used in that preface was means, I think the use of the following 
diseases similarly suggests the list is exhaustive. There is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other diseases, 
including any new diseases which might emerge. As Ive said above, a range of policies are 
available. And some provide cover for all notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by 
the Government. These policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But 
this is not the type of policy C has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy C has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, I consider the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it 
can fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
Cs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Cs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied UKIs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means UKI should have met Cs claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for C and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman