DRN-4146475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU Mutual) unfairly declined a claim made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to NFU Mutual within this decision, this includes agents and representatives 
acting on its behalf.
While Mr and Mrs C refer the complaint to our service as joint policyholders, Mr C has been 
the primary point of contact throughout the claim and correspondence with our service, so Ill 
refer to him within the decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C hold a legal expenses insurance policy with NFU Mutual. Following a leak at 
their home, they wanted to take legal action against a contractor who had carried out work 
on their roof.
NFU Mutual accepted that the dispute fell within the extent of the policys cover, and 
appointed solicitors to work on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf. Mr Cs made complaints about the 
solicitors and over the course of the claim the matter has been referred to three different 
firms of solicitors.
The final firm of solicitors (who Ill refer to as C) concluded Mr and Mrs Cs claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success. On that basis, NFU Mutual withdrew cover and declined to 
cover any further costs.
Mr C complained to NFU Mutual. When it rejected his complaint, he approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt think NFU Mutual had done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decisions
Ive previously issued two provisional decisions outlining my thoughts on Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint, and what NFU Mutual needs to do to put things right.
The common theme of both provisional decisions has been that I dont think NFU Mutual 
acted fairly by withdrawing cover in light of Cs assessment that Mr and Mrs Cs claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success. In my first provisional decision, I said: The policy 
defines reasonable prospects as the prospects that the insured person will recover losses 
or damages make a successful defence or make a successful appeal or defence of an 
appeal, must be at least 51%. (NFU Mutual), or a preferred law firm on their behalf, will 
assess what the prospects of success are.
Im aware the claim had been going on for a considerable period before C advised NFU 
Mutual that they didnt consider the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. I know 
Mr C takes the view that in previously accepting cover for the claim, and appointing solicitors 
who have been conducting litigation, NFU Mutual shouldnt be entitled to withdraw cover.
I dont agree with this. The terms and conditions are clear in saying reasonable prospects of 
success need to be exist for the duration of the claim. Its reasonable to say this is an 
ongoing requirement and that the prospects of success will change as information and 
evidence is obtained. Thats entirely fair  its unreasonable to expect an insurer to continue 
covering costs when a legal representative doesnt think the claim will be successful.
What I need to do though is consider whether NFU Mutual reasonably withdrew cover in light 
of the assessment completed by C. I dont think it did.
Broadly speaking the assessment completed by C identifies two issues which meant, in their 
view, Mr and Mrs Cs claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. The first was 
procedural, as there was a concern that the previous solicitor (M) hadnt issued the relevant 
documents on the other party in time. The second was establishing that the leak had been 
caused by the contractor against whom Mr and Mrs C were seeking to take action.
Ive carefully considered the assessment completed by C, and believe it to be well reasoned. 
I have no evidence to suggest it wasnt based on a reasonable assessment of the 
information available to C when it was completed. That being said, I think the assessment 
itself highlights that there was a limit to what it could conclude and that the reasons for this, 
when considered alongside other information NFU Mutual had available, meant that the 
conclusion to withdraw cover wasnt reasonable.
The aspects Cs assessment highlight as being unresolved appear to link back to the actions 
of M before Cs appointment. In effect, C were unable to make a definitive conclusion on the 
procedural issues as information relating to the service of the relevant documents wasnt 
provided by M prior to them completing the assessment. I think its fair to say that the 
procedural issues identified by C dont lead to an inevitable conclusion that Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim would be struck out, which would of course mean that it didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success. The assessment appears to indicate that further enquiries would be 
needed on that point.
In terms of the causation aspect of the assessment, C says an expert report could assist in 
establishing the cause of the leak, and the contractors liability for that cause. It appears to 
be accepted by NFU Mutual that prior to Cs appointment, it had agreed to fund such an 
expert report and M was going to appoint the relevant expert. That had been communicated 
to Mr C. After Mr C complained about Ms conduct, the claim was moved to C who 
completed their assessment without that expert report.
Cs assessment says that the expert report could mean the claim has reasonable prospects 
of success, but does say that this would be unlikely. C also acknowledges in their 
assessment that it hadnt received the full file of evidence from M and so had been unable to 
complete their assessment based on that evidence.
From what I have available to me, I can see that C identified an expert report as potentially 
assisting in establishing that Mr and Mrs Cs claim has reasonable prospects of success. M 
had apparently sought (and been granted) funding from NFU Mutual to obtain such a report. 
It follows that M also believed the expert report would assist in establishing causation and 
therefore determining whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success. Mr C had 
been told that such a report would be obtained.
So in the absence of that expert report, and taking into account the identified limitations of 
Cs assessment, I dont think it was reasonable for NFU Mutual to withdraw cover when it 
did.In the first provisional decision, I said NFU Mutual should pay £250 compensation, and fund 
an expert to inspect Mr and Mrs Cs roof and a further assessment of the prospects of 
success in light of the experts findings.
Mr Cs response to the provisional decision noted that following the withdrawal of cover, hed 
agreed a settlement with the contractor which had covered the cost of repairing the roof, but 
not the cost of repairing internal damage. He believed NFU Mutual should cover those costs.
In my second provisional decision, I concluded that while I still believed Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint should be upheld, I wasnt satisfied NFU Mutual should be required to meet the 
costs sought by Mr and Mrs C. I explained:
Ive considered whether I should instead ask NFU Mutual to cover the costs to repair the 
internal damage. Im not persuaded I should. This is because, in order to do so, Id have to 
be satisfied that, if NFU Mutual had funded the expert report as it should have, the 
conclusion of the legal proceedings would have been that the contractor would have been 
required to meet those costs.
To reach that conclusion, I think its fair to say the following would need to have occurred:
The expert report concluded that the sole cause of the damage was the contractors 
negligence.
Any procedural issues around the issuing and serving of court papers were 
satisfactorily resolved.
C concluded that Mr and Mrs Cs claim did have reasonable prospects of success.
Either the contractor accepted liability and to settle all the costs, or Mr and Mrs C 
were successful in their court action against the contractor.
The court imposed settlement included all of these costs.
Thats a number of significant steps before I could make that conclusion. Im also mindful 
that the original assessment completed by C did say the expert report would only possibly 
change the outcome, so I think that an element of doubt was always likely to exist. 
Im aware that Mr C has said a contractor who repaired the roof has said the cause of the 
leak was the work carried out by the contractor whom Mr C took action against, but I cant 
see this is supported in any of the further evidence he sent us  thats limited to the costs 
incurred by Mr C to carry out all the repairs and other court documents. In any case, Im not 
sure I could accept this contractors view on the cause of the damage as it seems their work 
was limited to carrying out the requested repairs  whereas the expert report which was to 
be obtained was to consider the condition of the whole roof, the cause of the leak and who (if 
anyone) was responsible for this.
I dont think I can reasonably conclude that if NFU Mutual had obtained the expert report in 
order to assist Cs assessment, that the contractor would have been liable for the internal 
repairs. I cant ask NFU Mutual to meet those costs.
I did, however, conclude that £250 compensation was no longer suitable, in light of there 
being no prospects of moving forward with the claim as it was now settled. I said that in 
order to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C, NFU Mutual 
should pay £750 compensation. I thought this more properly acknowledged the loss of 
opportunity and distress caused by NFU Mutual unfairly withdrawing cover.
Responses to the second provisional decisionNFU Mutual didnt initially accept the first provisional decision, but has accepted the findings 
and suggested compensation contained in my second provisional decision.
Mr C said he believed NFU Mutual should be required to pay the repair costs to the interior 
of the property and pay the £750 compensation. In his opinion, if the expert report had been 
obtained the cover would have remained in place and hed have been successful in having 
the contractor found to be liable for the internal damage and responsible for repairing it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NFU Mutual has now accepted that the decision to withdraw cover was unreasonable, I 
dont intend to make any further points with regards to this element of the complaint. My 
reasons why are outlined above and have been repeated in two provisional decisions, and I 
have nothing more to add to this.
I also dont intend to repeat my reasons why I think that £750 compensation is fair. That 
amount has been accepted by NFU Mutual and Mr Cs response indicates he believes it 
should be paid in addition to the repair costs, suggesting that he accepts the amount as well.
What I do need to address is whether NFU Mutual should be liable for the repair costs. Im 
grateful to Mr C for his detailed submission and further evidence on this point, Im unable to 
agree that this is something I could reasonably require NFU Mutual to cover.
I know Mr Cs convinced that if the expert report had been funded, as it should have been, 
that his claim would have been successful. Hes provided photos of the area of the roof 
which was repaired using the funds provided by the contractor, and says that this was the 
sole source of the damage to the interior of the property. 
Im not qualified to make such an assessment, and that being the source of the damage 
wouldnt, in any case, automatically mean that the original contractor was liable for the 
damage. Such a judgement would, Im satisfied, only be appropriate for a court to make. Id 
also refer back to my earlier point that the expert report would have considered the condition 
of the whole roof and the source of the damage to the interior of the property. Photos of the 
roof dont do this  they give no context or comment around the damage to the roof or the 
interior.
Mr C also says that the procedural issues had been addressed in an email confirming dates 
that various documents were sent to the contractor and their representatives. Im satisfied 
that such information would have been considered in any new assessment of the prospects 
of success of the claim. As I outlined in the second provisional decision, however, the 
procedural issues werent the only reason why the claim might have been unsuccessful. 
I know how strongly Mr C feels that without the withdrawal of cover, his claim would have 
been successful. Unfortunately, Im unable to conclude on the balance of probabilities that 
this would have been the case  I think there are too many steps, all of which would have 
had to have been found in his favour, making it too remote for me to safely reach such a 
conclusion.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, The National 
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay Mr and Mrs C £750 compensation. 
NFU Mutual must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it Mr and Mrs C accept this 
decision. If it doesnt, it must pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on this amount from that 
date to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman