DRN-2022862
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him for four ATM withdrawals totalling 
£200 he says he never made. He would like the money refunded.
What happened
On 8 January 2020 at 6.43 am Mr M went to use a cash machine to take out £60. He says 
the machine didnt dispense the cash and swallowed his card. 
Mr M says that on his way to work he logged into online banking and saw that four further 
ATM withdrawals of £50 each had been carried out at another cash machine. Mr M says this 
wasnt him as his card had been kept by the cash machine he used.
At 1.04 pm, during his break, Mr M contacted the bank to report his card had been retained 
by the machine. The card was cancelled, and a new card issued to him.
Mr M complained to Santander he asked them to investigate and return the £260. 
Santander investigated. They said they were only able to refund £60. The cash machine 
Mr M used was shown to have money over, this suggested that money hadnt been 
dispensed so they refunded Mr M £60.
Santander didnt refund the other £200 as they said on investigation the cash machine was 
working properly and had balanced. The audit trails show the transactions were carried out 
using Mr Ms debit card on 8 January 2020 starting at 6.53 am. Santander said the money 
had dispensed and so Mr M was declined a refund for the £200.
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response, so he referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and she didnt think Santander needed 
to do anything further. She thought Mr Ms evidence of what had happened was 
contradictory. The technical evidence provided by the bank showed the money had 
dispensed. She thought it was likely Mr M had carried out the transactions as the genuine 
card and PIN were used to take out the £200. 
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators view. He said he wanted the matter looked at by an 
ombudsman. He provided us with a medical report, and he was unhappy that the 
investigator placed so much emphasis on his not contacting Santander sooner. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
The cash machine that was used for the second set of cash withdrawals was owned by a 
different bank I will call T. Bank T have provided Santander with the report of the balance on 
their cash machine. There were no surplus funds identified in the machine and the technical 
evidence shows that the money dispensed.
Mr M has told us he didnt take out the £200 cash because his card was retained by the first 
cash machine. However, when he first called Santander to report the matter, he said it was 
him that had tried to withdraw the £200 and the cash hadnt dispensed. Because of these 
discrepancies I cant put too much weight on what he has told us. I find it difficult to accept 
the truthfulness of his account. 
Mr M hasnt given us any suggestions of how his PIN was compromised. Although he has 
mentioned in passing to us that there was someone behind him at the cash machine and he 
says they looked suspicious.
From what Ive seen I think its reasonable for Santander to decline to refund Mr M, I say this 
because:
Having listened to the original call Mr M had with Santander when he reported the 
issue, he says he carried out all the attempted withdrawals and no cash dispensed. 
In the second call to Santander on the next day he also said he carried out all the 
attempted withdrawals. I think the evidence he provided at the time is more reliable 
as the events were fresher in his mind. So, I find it difficult to accept that he later said 
that someone else carried out the four £50 withdrawals. 
Mr M has said when his card was retained, he noticed that the card reader was 
bulkier than he would have expected. I think Mr M is trying to say that a fraudster 
tampered with the cash machine in order to collect cards and PINs. It is possible for 
this to happen but given the time between the first and second cash machine 
withdrawals, a fraudster would have had to work very quickly to remove the device 
without detection and go to the new cash machine location to use Mr Ms card in ten 
minutes. 
It is unusual for these types of devices to be placed in areas of high use as they 
become easier to detect. I also think that a fraudster wouldnt use a cash machine 
with CCTV to carry out this sort of fraud as they might risk detection.
Mr M has said the cash machine looked like it had been tampered with, so I find it 
surprising that Mr M didnt make it a priority to contact Santander sooner. Especially 
as he says the card was retained and no cash dispensed.
I find it implausible that a fraudster would travel with a card and PIN to a location a 
mile away since they would risk the card owner phoning the bank to stop the card. I 
have looked at a map of the area and there are at least two other cash machines that 
are closer. I think an opportunistic fraudster would go to the nearest cash machine 
The pattern of withdrawals is not one I would expect from an opportunistic fraudster. 
There is no balance enquiry which I would expect, and I think an opportunistic fraudster would carry out a large withdrawal in one go to maximise their chances, not 
four £50 withdrawals.
Between 6.43 am the time of the first cash withdrawal and 6.53 am the time of the 
disputed second cash withdrawal, Mr M logged into online banking and paid a bill. I 
find it strange he didnt take the opportunity to report the card as retained by the 
machine. 
After the last disputed cash withdrawal at 6.55 am, Mr M logged into online banking a 
few times between 7.02 am and 7.19 am. He also paid a bill. Again, I find it strange 
he didnt take the opportunity to report the card as retained and the four disputed 
cash withdrawals especially since he would have noticed his balance change by 
quite a bit. Mr M has said he was rushing to work. He also said he went home to get 
another card in order to travel to work. In any event Mr M had enough time to check 
his mobile banking App so I think he had the time to contact Santander.
The investigator has pointed out that there are discrepancies in Mr Ms story of what 
happened that day. Mr M has provided us medical evidence to suggest he finds it 
difficult to organise his thoughts. So, I have disregarded the discrepancies in the 
order of events Mr M has given us. But I consider it materially different when Mr M 
says he did something that isnt supported by the technical evidence. For example, 
Mr M says he tried to get money out on two separate occasions just before 
attempting to get £60 out of the Bank T machine. This isnt supported by the 
technical evidence, which doesnt show prior cash machine attempts to the £60 
withdrawal. 
Mr M mentioned to Santander that CCTV would have shown that the money didnt 
dispense. If Mr M is saying he carried out the £50 withdrawals and the money didnt 
dispense, the technical evidence Ive seen shows that the money did dispense so 
CCTV evidence wouldnt help. If Mr M is saying that it wasnt him that attempted the 
£50 withdrawals from the second cash machine, CCTV evidence wouldnt 
necessarily help establish that, as he could have asked someone else to carry out 
the transactions on his behalf.
Mr M told Santander he had reported the matter to the police. My investigation is 
based on trying to establish whether Mr M likely carried out the disputed cash 
withdrawals. So, I cant draw any conclusions from Mr M having reported the matter 
to the police.
Mr M has said because of the money not dispensing he has had to take out a loan because 
of financial difficulties. I am sorry to hear Mr M had financial difficulties. I note that he has 
previously used short term loans. As I am satisfied that Mr M did take out the £200 from the 
second ATM machine, I cant hold Santander liable for Mr M having to take out a loan.
In summary taking everything into account, I find on balance that Mr M did take out the cash 
totalling £200 from the second ATM machine belonging to bank T. It follows Santander is 
entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman