DRN-4377123
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vitality Health Limited hasnt fully settled the costs of a claim he made 
on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P is insured under his employers group private medical insurance policy. The contract 
included up to £1000 of out-patient cover per policy year.
In February 2023, Mr P saw Vitalitys virtual GP after experiencing symptoms of light-
headedness. The GP referred Mr P to a specialist. Vitality provided Mr P with the names of 
three consultants and authorised the costs of two consultations.
Subsequently, in March 2023, Mr P called Vitality to discuss the claims process. The call 
handler explained that Vitality had agreed to cover two consultations and associated 
histology. They discussed the out-patient limit with Mr P and explained, in brief, how the 
cover worked. They suggested that if Mr P wanted to know how much consultations or 
treatments would cost, he should ask the hospital when he called to book the appointment.
Mr P saw a consultant and was referred for diagnostic testing as an out-patient. Vitality paid 
Mr Ps costs up to the policy limit of £1000. However, Mr Ps total consultation and test costs 
exceeded the policy limit and so he was asked to pay the outstanding balance.
Unhappy with Vitalitys position, Mr P asked us to look into his complaint. In summary, he 
didnt think the policy was worded clearly and he didnt think Vitality had made the claims 
process clear. Hed believed his full costs had been covered. He also didnt think hed been 
properly informed about the cost of the consultations or tests. He said that if hed known the 
costs would exceed the policy limit, he would have undergone treatment on the NHS.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
paperwork made the out-patient limit clear and she thought Vitalitys call handler had 
appropriately explained to Mr P how the policy worked. So she didnt think Vitality needed to 
do anything more.
Mr P disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to the investigator. He said hed been 
under the impression that all tests following his initial consultation would be covered. He felt 
the policy terms stated that this was the case. He said that no-one had informed him about 
the costs of the consultations or the costs of the diagnostic tests  and Vitality had only 
informed him about the shortfall over a month after hed undergone testing. He didnt think 
the process was sufficiently transparent and it had been far too easy for him to spend money 
without any prompting from Vitality as to what to do next. He maintained that the policy 
wording and claims process had been misleading.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P, I think Vitality has settled his claim 
fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and the available evidence, to decide 
whether I think Vitality handled Mr Ps claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, along with Mr Ps policy certificate, as 
these form the basis of the contract between Mr Ps employer and Vitality  and which set 
out the terms under which Mr P is insured.
Mr Ps policy certificate was issued on 1 March 2023. It includes a table called Your Cover 
which lists the benefits Mr Ps employer opted to take out when it entered into the contract 
with Vitality. One of the benefits listed is out-patient cover. This sets out the following cover:
Up to £1,000 cover for out-patient consultations, consultant fees and out-of network 
physiotherapy (max £35 per session) when needed as part of your treatment. This limit will 
also cover diagnostics such as blood tests, x-rays, radiology and pathology.
Full cover for in-network physiotherapy.
Full cover for out-patient diagnostic scans such as MRI, CT & PET scans when referred by a 
consultant.
In my view, the policy certificate makes it sufficiently clear that Mr P is covered for up to 
£1000 of out-patient care per year  including both consultations and most diagnostics. A 
specific exception is made for MRI, CT and PET scans which are fully covered if a member 
is referred by a consultant. The policy terms do explain that in some circumstances, where 
an out-patient limit applies, there might be full cover for diagnostic tests. But the policy terms 
also state that a members policy certificate show which options will apply. In this case, Mr 
Ps policy certificate shows that his employer didnt opt to add full diagnostic tests cover to 
this particular contract. I dont think the policy terms or Mr Ps policy paperwork are unclear 
or misleading on this point.
I understand that in Mr Ps case, he didnt undergo an MRI, CT or PET scan  instead he 
saw a consultant about his symptoms and underwent other forms of diagnostic testing. So I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Vitality to conclude that the out-patient limit of 
£1000 would apply to Mr Ps particular claim.
It's clear that Mr P feels that Vitality didnt make the claims process or policy limits 
sufficiently clear to him. Ive considered this carefully and Ive listened to the call between 
Vitality and Mr P which took place prior to Mr P booking the consultation with the specialist. I 
think the call handler clearly explained the out-patient limit to Mr P and what costs would fall 
within that. They explained that Mr P had been authorised for two consultations and follow-
up blood work. They told Mr P about the MRI, PET and CT scan exception to the out-patient 
limit. Mr P asked a direct question about the charges which would apply. The call handler 
clearly told Mr P that it would depend on the particular consultant and that Mr P should 
check costs with the consultant at the time of booking. They also informed Mr P that the 
hospital could email him a price list of charges and costs. And they made it clear to Mr P that 
if the costs exceeded the out-patient limit, any outstanding balance would need to be self-paid.
Having listened to the call, I think the call handler gave Mr P clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the way the policy worked. I think they correctly informed Mr P that they 
couldnt say what charges would be applied and suggested that he ask the hospital about 
costs at the time of booking. I think this was a sensible and appropriate suggestion from 
Vitality. And I cant I fairly hold Vitality responsible for the prices the hospital charged for 
treatment or testing, or for any failure on the part of the hospital to provide Mr P with a price 
list.
Ive looked carefully at the authorisation letter Vitality sent Mr P too. I dont think it suggested 
that any and all costs Mr P incurred which were associated with the referral would be 
covered. Instead, it stated that Mr P would be covered for up to two consultations. It also 
said: 
If you do need more treatment, other than what weve agreed so far, you should let us know 
straight away, as well need to ensure youre covered.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P contacted Vitality to check that the testing the 
consultant had recommended would be covered, or whether it was likely to fall outside of the 
out-patient limit. Nor would Vitality be in a position to tell Mr P about what cover he had left 
until it had received the invoices from the hospital.
On that basis, while I sympathise with Mr Ps position, as I appreciate hes been left with a 
significant outstanding shortfall balance to pay, I dont think Vitality has settled his claim 
unfairly. I think it provided him with clear information about the cover and the way it worked. 
And it isnt responsible for Mr Ps treatment plan or the charges the hospital applied. So I 
dont think its done anything wrong which I could reasonably ask it to put right and it follows 
that Im not directing Vitality to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman