DRN-1097574
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) acted irresponsibly when it 
gave him loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
 What happened
This complaint is about four loans cash4unow provided to Mr M between September 2016 
and November 2017. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
LoanDate
TakenDate
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest
Repayment
122/09/2016 29/11/2016 3 £200.00 £91.52
229/11/2016 05/05/2017 6 £400.00 £107.79
310/05/2017 27/10/2017 6 £500.00 £143.50
416/11/2017 01/05/2018 6 £600.00 £167.96
 
Mr M said that if proper checks had been done then he wouldnt have been given these 
loans. He told us hed had to work excessive hours, he spent every penny paying off debt 
and his health had been affected.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that cash4unow shouldnt have lent 
loan 4 to Mr M and he set out what he thought cash4unow should do to put things right for 
Mr M. 
Cash4unow disagreed with our adjudicator and mainly said that Mr M had shown no signs of 
struggling to make the loan repayments - save for loan 4 being paid 1 day late all the loan 
repayments were collected on time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cash4unow was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1-3 shouldnt have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information cash4unow had noted down, including income 
and expenditure details from the time. 
Given this was early on in the lending relationship, I agree that there isnt enough to say 
cash4unow shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr M. 
But I think that by loan 4, cash4unow should have realised that Mr M wasnt managing to 
repay his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because cash4unow could see that: 
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr M was struggling 
to repay previous loans. He repaid loan 1 early and took out loan 2 the same day. 
Loan 2 was for twice as much as loan 1, and he took out loan 2 over a longer 
repayment period, possibly to keep down the cost of each monthly repayment 
he took out loan 3 just five days after he paid loan 2  and increased his borrowing 
again he took out loan 4 around three weeks or so after paying loan 3  and increased the 
amount he was borrowing again  this loan was for three times as much as hed 
borrowed on the first loan
by now hed been borrowing and repaying cash4unow loans for around 14 months or 
so which suggests Mr M wasnt using these loans for their intended purpose as a 
short term solution for a one off money problem or to help with temporary cash flow 
difficulties
it looks likely that Mr M had to borrow again each time because he was facing 
financial difficulties after repaying each previous loan.   
In these circumstances, I think there was a significant risk Mr M wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 4, and for any further loans. So 
cash4unow shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Mr M. 
I've taken into account everything cash4unow has said  including comments made in 
response to our adjudicators view. But the fact that Mr M made his loan monthly repayments 
on time doesn't mean that he was able to pay these loans in a way that was sustainably 
affordable for him. And whilst I've noted that cash4unow declined a later loan application 
from Mr M, this doesn't affect my decision about loan 4.  
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything cash4unow has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. Cash4unow 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 4.
Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) should take the steps Ive set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman