The complaint
Mr E complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) didnt treat him fairly when he needed 
an appointment for a problem with his hot water.
What happened
Mr E had HomeCare Four home emergency cover with BG. There was a problem with his 
hot water so he made an appointment online. It was Friday evening and he booked the first 
available appointment which was for Monday morning. Mr E wasnt happy to wait until then 
because BG advertises a same day appointment for the majority of emergencies.
He called BG that evening but it wasnt able to offer an earlier appointment. He cancelled the 
appointment online two days later and he arranged for a third party to restore his hot water. 
Mr E called BG the following week to complain. He felt that it shouldve prioritised his 
appointment. BG explained that it didnt class the loss of hot water as an emergency, 
therefore it had offered him the first available appointment in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy. Mr E didnt think BG treated him fairly because he had a child under 
one year old, and being left without hot water for three days didnt meet his expectations of 
the service BG advertised. 
BG offered to reimburse the cost of the third party repair if Mr E provided the invoice and:
the work wouldve been covered under his policy;
it was satisfied with the company he used, and
the cost wasnt excessive for the work done.
Mr E refused to provide the invoice. He asked BG to pay him £100 to compensate him for 
not treating him fairly. BG rejected his request but confirmed its offer remained available to 
him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that BG had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence didnt suggest that it had treated Mr E 
unfairly.
Mr E didnt agree. He thought too much weight had been placed on BGs comments. Mr E 
said he doesnt want BG to reimburse his third party costs but he does want compensation 
because it didnt treat him fairly.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
DRN-1610574What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. I realise he will be disappointed but Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision.
When Mr E first approached this service he understood it was unlikely thered be any 
contractual obligation on BG to attend on the same day. However, he is aware that BG is 
required to treat customers fairly, which he feels it hasnt done in his case. Mr E identified 
several points which supported his view. Rather than respond to each point, Ill address his 
complaint as a whole.
I think Mr E is right to conclude that theres no contractual obligation on BG to attend on the 
same day. This is covered in the terms and conditions and Im satisfied that the relevant 
clause is reasonable:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit."
BG gave Mr E the next available appointment. He doesnt think it was soon enough, 
especially as it advertises and reports to the regulator a high percentage of same day 
appointments for emergencies. And if BG prioritised other customers who contacted it after 
he did, he thinks thats evidence that it didnt treat him fairly. I dont agree. Mr E was without 
hot water but he still had heating. I realise that BG defines emergencies as without heating 
or hot water, but its reasonable for it to prioritise a customer who is without both. Its also 
reasonable for BG to tailor questions to the service which is lost. Mr E says it asked about 
skin conditions but not about children in the household. I can understand why loss of hot 
water might be more relevant to people with skin conditions, and why heating might be more 
relevant to people with young children. That said, if Mr E felt his need was more urgent 
because he had a young child in the house, he couldve told BG. So if BG did give earlier 
appointments to someone who called after he did, its likely that it wouldve done so because 
it felt that customers need was more urgent taking into consideration the information 
available. I realise that would be frustrating for Mr E, but I dont think it means BG treated 
him unfairly.
Because BG advertises a high percentage of same day appointments, Mr E thinks it 
shouldve at least attended the following day if it couldnt achieved the same day target. BG 
said it operates a different staffing schedule over weekends but Mr E feels this is misleading. 
I dont have any reason to doubt what BG says but I dont think its staffing schedule is of 
importance here. Theres no dispute that BG didnt attend on the same day. But it doesnt 
guarantee or even claim that it will. It says it attends a high percentage of emergencies on 
the same day, which necessarily means that it doesnt attend some on the same day. 
Unfortunately, Mr Es appointment fell into that category. I have no reason to doubt BG 
wouldve allocated an earlier appointment, if available, if it felt his need was greater than 
another customers. 
Mr E asks how long he wouldve needed to wait for an appointment for it to be unreasonable. 
I dont think that matters here. BG gave him an appointment which meant he was without hot 
water for one weekend. Its terms and conditions say that in some cases it will send a 
suitably qualified contractor. I think its more likely than not that if it couldnt attend an appointment within a reasonable timeframe, it wouldve used a contractor to fulfil its 
obligations. Mr E used a third party to complete the repair sooner than BGs appointment. He 
thinks that BG offered to cover the cost because it knew its service was unacceptable. I dont 
agree. It offered to cover reasonable costs on condition that Mr E provides evidence of the 
work done, by a satisfactory company, and that it was covered under his policy. This 
indicates to me that BG is comparing the cost of the work done with what it wouldve cost for 
its own engineer to attend or a third party contractor to attend on its behalf, with a view to 
reimbursing Mr E for the expense. BG didnt have to make that offer and I think it 
demonstrates that it was treating Mr E fairly. BG confirmed that the offer is still available to 
Mr E. If he wishes to accept it now, he should contact BG directly.
To be clear, treating customers fairly does not mean treating them the same. I would expect 
BG to offer an appointment based on the information available to it, taking into account its 
availability and customer vulnerability. In summary, Mr E reported the loss of hot water on 
Friday evening and BG offered an appointment for Monday morning. He didnt make BG 
aware of any vulnerability issues so Im satisfied BG acted fairly in the circumstances. I dont 
think compensation is warranted here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman