DRN-2863975
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited did not uphold her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of the installation of some doors and windows.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook for the 
purpose of financing her purchase of 18 doors and windows, which were to be manufactured 
and installed by a third party. These were for an extension she was having built. (Both she 
and her husband signed the contract with the retailer.) A year later, the installation work had 
still not been completed to her satisfaction, and so she asked Shawbrook for a refund under 
section 75, on the ground that the retailer had breached its contract with her, because of the 
delay and because the installation work was incomplete and done to a poor standard. 
Shawbrook did not uphold her claim, so she brought this complaint to our service.
On the advice of our investigator, Mrs B and Shawbrook instructed an expert (at 
Shawbrooks expense) to inspect the doors and windows and prepare an independent 
report. This was completed in April 2021. The expert said that none of the installation work 
had been completed, in that the doors and windows all still needed to be sealed to make 
them rain proof. Shawbrook says this is only because that work cannot be completed until 
Mrs Bs own builders have finished rendering the walls, and so it is not the fault of the 
retailer.
The expert also identified various other problems with nine of the doors and windows. 
Shawbrook says that most of these problems are also the fault of Mrs Bs builders, and not 
the retailer. It also said that her builders had caused the delays.
Our investigator upheld this complaint, and recommended two alternative remedies. Either 
Shawbrook could cancel the credit agreement with nothing more to pay, refund Mrs Bs 
deposit (£199) with interest, and remove from her credit file any adverse information about 
the agreement, or Shawbrook could cover the entire cost of having all of the necessary 
remedial work done by contractors of Mrs Bs choice.
Mrs B accepted that opinion. Shawbrook did not, for the reasons I have summarised above. 
Shawbrook also said that if the credit agreement was cancelled, then all of the doors and 
windows should be removed and returned to the retailer. Shawbrook asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am persuaded by Shawbrooks arguments that I should only require 
Shawbrook to cover the cost of a few of the needed repairs. I will explain why.
I have read the independent report. It describes the condition of each door and window 
individually, and sets out what remedial work needs to be done to each of them and why. 
The author is very experienced and I accept his findings and conclusions, having no reason 
to doubt them (save in one respect, which I will describe later).
The report states that, apart from the problems individually described, the quality of the 
installation work was of a reasonable standard, and complied with relevant industry codes of 
practice. The doors and windows themselves were manufactured to a very high standard.
The report says that the whole installation was unfinished, since all of the doors and 
windows still had to have external seals added to them. The report expressly states that this 
is to be done once the Customer has completed all the external rendering. I can see in the 
photographs within the report that the external walls are still awaiting rendering, so I accept 
what the report says about that. Since the retailer which installed the doors and windows is 
not responsible for the walls, I cannot hold Shawbrook responsible under section 75 for the 
incomplete installation. It is only incomplete because there is still some other work which 
must be carried out first, and this is to be done by Mrs Bs builders. There is no reason why 
this work, when it is ready to be done, cannot be completed by the retailer.
The installation work was begun in July 2019, but could not be completed because not all of 
the openings in the walls were ready yet. This was not the retailers fault. The installation 
was resumed and completed in the autumn. It was then that Mrs B complained to the retailer 
about the standard of work, and some adjustments were made to one of the doors.
The report confirms that there is still some work to be done in this area. Specifically, the front 
door (called aperture 2 in the report) needs to be re-installed, and one of the panels on that 
door needs to be replaced with a larger one. I think the retailer, and therefore Shawbrook 
too, is responsible for this.
As well as the front door, there were eight other doors and windows with which the expert 
identified some problems.
Aperture 1, a downstairs window, had a cracked frame which needs to be replaced. Aperture 
4, an upstairs window, was found to have loose handles, and the expert advised replacing 
both handles and locks. Aperture 5 had a safety restrictor which would not release, and the 
expert said this should be fixed or replaced. I think Shawbrook is responsible for these 
matters too.
Aperture 3, a downstairs window, has some damage to the frame. But I cannot tell whether 
this damage was caused by the retailer or by someone else, such as the builders. Since the 
expert says that the standard of installation work was generally good, I dont think I can infer 
that it was the retailers fault. So I cant hold Shawbrook liable for this.
The expert noted that the rail at the top of the bifold doors in aperture 9 was not straight, and 
he recommended that it be repositioned. But since he also noted that the builders had made 
the aperture 10mm too small, I think this is likely to be the reason for the problem. On 
balance, I do not think I can hold the retailer or Shawbrook liable for that. (However, the 
retailer has already offered to replace these doors at no extra cost, as a gesture of good will, 
provided that the full contractual price is paid. That offer still stands; I will leave it to Mrs B to 
decide whether to accept it.)
The experts opinion of aperture 13 seems contradictory, and this is the point on which I am 
not persuaded by his report. In his detailed description on page 19, he says the frame is the 
correct size and has been correctly installed. But in his summary of the work that needs to be done, on page 27, he recommends removing and reinstalling the frame. I cannot 
reconcile these two statements, and I suspect it is probably an error. I dont think it is a 
strong enough basis for requiring Shawbrook to do anything about it. (I will reconsider this 
point if the expert provides clarification.)
For aperture 14, the expert recommended installing sash restrictors, and replacing a missing 
drip rail end cap. I think Shawbrook is responsible for that.
Aperture 18, a set of bi-fold doors, which Mrs B had complained were not what she had 
wanted, matched the description in the order (a conclusion which our investigator had 
already reached independently). The expert did not accept that the wrong size doors had 
been provided, and when he measured the size of the space left for the doors he found that 
it was not the same size as had been specified in the paperwork, being too small by 40mm. 
He attributed this error to Mrs Bs builders, since the retailer had not been responsible for 
building the wall. I have compared his photo of the measurement with the relevant entry in 
the paperwork, and I agree with his opinion.
There is a vent missing from the same door, and the expert recommended adding one. The 
same door also has a gasket trapped behind the glass, which he recommended should be 
removed, and replaced if necessary. Shawbrook does not appear to dispute that this work 
needs doing, so I will require that to be done.
I realise that Mrs B has lost confidence in the retailer and would prefer to instruct her own 
contractors. But since most of the installation work was done to a reasonable standard, 
I dont agree that it is necessary to get somebody else in to finish the job. I currently think 
that the retailer should undertake the work. So I intend to order Shawbrook to arrange to 
have the remedial work to the doors and windows in apertures 1, 2, 4, 5, 14 and 18 to be 
done at no cost to Mrs B.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mrs B did not accept my provisional decision. She made detailed submissions about why 
she has lost confidence in the retailer. She said Shawbrook had failed to investigate her 
allegation that she and her husband had been bullied by the retailer. She asked me to 
contact the expert and seek clarification about his opinion regarding aperture 13.
Shawbrook did not respond.
My findings
Aperture 13
I asked the expert about aperture 13, and this is his reply:
The manufacture and installation of this frame [Aperture 13 Balcony single door] 
meets all regulations and codes of practice for the quality of the product and the 
installation.
It is also absolutely the correct size for the aperture.
There is however some damage to the external woodgrain foil that has occurred with 
the door sash [opening part] allowed to open and to hit the tile hung detail 
surrounding it and also some damage to the outer frame.
This foil will need some reworking and to allow this to be undertaken properly the 
frame would need to be removed and ultimately re installed. See note on page 27.He highlighted that on page 27, in addition to recommending removing and reinstalling the 
frame, he had also recommended installing a restrictor to restrict the sash opening, and 
repairing the foil damage.
On balance, I think that the lack of a restrictor in the first place is a shortcoming in the 
installation of this door, and so Shawbrook is liable for carrying out this remedial work.
Other matters
Mrs B told me that the retailer had demanded that she and her husband sign a document 
certifying that they had completed all of their work, or else they would increase the price by 
4%. She says Shawbrook ought to have investigated that too. However, I do not think that 
falls within the scope of section 75. It seems to me to be an issue relating to customer 
service rather than the breach of a term of their contract.
I realise that Mrs B has lost confidence in the retailer, but having regard to the experts 
findings, I still remain of the view that the retailer is capable of carrying out the remedial work 
he recommended.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
arrange for the remedial work to apertures 1, 2, 4, 5, 13, 14 and 18, to the extent 
recommended in the experts report, to be carried out at no cost to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman