DRN-3668442
The complaint
Mr A complains about unsuitable advice he says he received from Mr Y to move two 
pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and use a discretionary fund 
management (DFM) service. Mr A says Mr Y initially gave him advice acting on behalf of T  
an appointed representative of N. But before arrangements were made to implement the 
advice, Mr Y told him hed be representing Future Wealth Management (Future)  an 
appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi)  moving forward. So, Mr A says Pi is 
responsible for the advice.
What happened
Mr A says a family friend had recommended he have his pensions reviewed and he decided 
to do so because he was worried they were stagnant and wanted to make sure they were 
working for him. At that point he had two pensions  one defined benefit and one defined 
contribution.
Its not clear when exactly the review happened but Mr A was referred to Mr Y and a 
Pension Transfer Report was produced on 26 April 2017 which covered both pensions. 
This was amended on 7 June 2017  again covering both pensions  to reflect an update in 
the recommended SIPP provider. The adviser was listed as Mr Y on these reports but 
neither T nor N were mentioned.
Ive been provided with a copy of an Advice report which is missing the first page and so I 
dont know the date it was produced, but from other correspondence, its likely this was 
produced on 8 May 2017. Again, it was unbranded and neither T nor N were mentioned, 
although its likely it was sent as T. The report included the following recommendation:
I have recommended that you transfer your existing pension benefits to an alternative 
arrangement for the following reasons;
The pension scheme trustees have offered a comprehensive Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value
The Transfer Value Analysis report has confirmed that your pension 
commencement lump sum entitlement can be taken immediately upon 
transfer to a money purchase scheme.
Your personal circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided by the 
pension freedom legislation at retirement.
[The recommended SIPP provider] has a very competitive, flat rate annual 
charge of £150
On transfer, I recommend that you utilise the services of a DFM as follows;
SG Income & Growth (50%)
TAM Asset Management (50%)
I recommend that you invest 50% of your pension in each of the portfolios above. 
This will diversify your pension portfolio. The portfolios are invested in line with your 
selected attitude to risk of 7
As you have decided to proceed with the transfer out of the [defined benefit pension], 
the question now becomes which scheme would be the most suitable to receive the 
transfer to allow you to achieve your main objectives.
I am recommending that you transfer your pension benefits to a SIPPWe have 
discounted a UK Stakeholder plan as a suitable option as you cannot get active fund 
management and choice of investments within a stakeholder plan at the same 
charges you will achieve using [a SIPP].
The main reasons this is advantageous to you at present based on your objectives 
above are as follows;
1) Within a SIPP you will be able to access your 25% tax free cash, which is 
your main priority in considering this transfer.
2) By transferring into a SIPP, you have full control over what happens to your 
full fund value upon death.
3) You have full control of your pension fund throughout retirement, allowing you 
greater investment choice as well as taking an income out at a time and 
duration that you decide. However this also means you carry the risk.
Mr A was then sent a letter on Ts paper dated 8 June 2017. This read:
Further to suitability letter dated 8th May 2017, please find some amendments 
detailed below.
The SIPP provider originally recommended [a SIPP provider] due to difficulties in 
their administration processes which are negatively impacting on the pension transfer 
process we have looked at a more suitable provider [a different SIPP provider].
I have included the new Pension Reports for all of your schemes and you can see 
the difference in critical yield is minimal but the service will be greatly improved.
Your investments will still go ahead as agreed and discussed with [Mr Y] and there 
will be no change to you other than who will be the trustee of your SIPP.
Further to our conversation, please also find enclosed documentation regarding our 
change of network as we will no longer be under [N] as there [sic] permissions will be 
ceasing but will be under Pi Financial Ltd (FCA 186419). This will be under our 
company Future Wealth Management so if you could please sign the client 
agreement and accompanying letter and enclose this within the stamped addressed 
envelope we can start the discharge process for you. 
This again to reiterate doesnt change any of the advice or fees agreed it simply 
changes the network through which they go through.
Mr A signed the Future client agreement on 12 June 2017 and returned this to Mr Y.
When an investigator asked the SIPP provider who introduced Mr A to it, it said Mr A was 
introduced to it on 15 June 2017 by Mr Y of [T]/Future Wealth Management. The SIPP was 
set up on that date and the certificate of membership lists Mr Y of T in the financial adviser/introducer section. The annual valuation report dated 25 February 2018 also listed 
the adviser as Mr Y of T.
N went into administration and an administrator was appointed on 27 June 2017.
The significant transactions on Mr As SIPP statement are:
£326,878.78 received from his defined contribution pension on 4 September 2017.
£13,075.15 sent as a fee with the reference ADVISER CHARGES [T] PI 
FINANCIAL on 12 October 2017.
£80,000 taken as tax free cash on 12 October 2017.
£231,000 received from his defined benefit pension on 20 November 2017.
£9,240 sent as a fee with the reference ADVISER CHARGES [T] on 
22 November 2017.
£454,613.63 invested with a DFM on 8 December 2017 in tranches of £250,000 and 
£204,613.63. 
£57,511.62 taken as tax free cash on 30 October 2019.
Pi confirmed the two fees were sent to it meaning it received a total of £22,315.15 in fees.
The DFM paperwork refers to T in the adviser details section and the email address given is 
one that belongs to T. This was signed on 30 November 2017.
Mr A later became concerned about the value of his SIPP and the high exit fees the DFM 
was charging. He complained to Pi saying the advice hed received from Mr Y was 
unsuitable and it was responsible for that advice. Pi didnt agree. It said:
At the same time Mr Y had been trading as Future, hed also been trading as T.
It has no record of Mr A in its system and given the nature of the advice, it would 
have records if the advice had been given as its appointed representative.
In October 2017 itd rejected the DFM service Mr A used in November 2017.
Mr Y had agreed with N that in some cases where advice had been given by T, but 
fees not yet paid, the fees would be credited to his account at Pi. Mr As fee fell into 
this category.
It hadnt taken responsibility for advice given by Mr Y while he was trading as T.
An investigator decided that two complaints had been made by Mr A  one about the advice 
he was given in relation to his defined benefit pension; and one about the advice he was 
given in relation to his defined contribution pension. Two complaint files were therefore set 
up and two views were issued.
The investigator was satisfied Pi was responsible for the advice given. In summary he said 
that although the advice had initially been given when Mr Y was at T, the SIPP had been 
created and the transfers and investments made after Mr Y had told both Mr A and the SIPP provider that hed be representing Future moving forward and Mr A had signed a Future 
client agreement. This combined with the fact the fees had been sent to Pi means Pi is 
responsible for the advice. And he concluded the advice had been unsuitable.
Pi didnt agree. In addition to the points itd made in its final response letter, it said:
The advice had been given by T and Mr As decision to transfer was based on that 
advice. Nothing itd done resulted in Mr As decision to transfer and invest. Hed 
already made his decisions before Future and/or Pi were even mentioned and if they 
hadnt been mentioned he would have continued in the same way. The only 
difference is that Mr Y might not have received his fees. The but for test isnt 
satisfied and theres no causation.
The letter of 8 June 2017 was clear that the relationship with Future and Pi was a 
prospective one and there was no suggestion in it that Future and/or Pi would take 
responsibility for advice already given. In fact, the letter is clear that the move 
wouldnt change any advice already agreed.
N had been entitled to the fees and it assumes the agreement to pay them to it 
instead was to prevent the fees going to Ns administration. The fact the fees were 
paid to it doesnt mean it took responsibility for the advice. At no point did it receive 
any other fees, commission or payments nor was it given any suitability reports, 
pension reports or application forms.
It had no agency for the SIPP and Mr A was never onboarded as a client. T was 
listed as the financial adviser on the SIPP. And the DFM documentation referred to 
Mr Y of T.
On 7 December 2017, Future contacted it to say [The SIPP provider] have informed 
me that Future dont have terms with them so can I ask that you complete the last 
page of this document and send it back. The agreement between it and the SIPP 
provider is dated 18 December 2017 so it had no agency with the SIPP provider 
when the SIPP was set up, the transfers received, or the investments made.
An internal email from 27 April 2017 shows Mr Y had handed in his resignation at Pi 
but this had been put on hold whilst various issues were resolved.
The issue was therefore passed to me for a decision and further information requests were 
made. As part of that process, a different investigator felt it was incorrect that two complaints 
had been set up and was satisfied only one should have been. He said thered been one 
piece of advice that encompassed both pensions and therefore theres only one complaint. 
He shared that opinion with both parties and asked for their comments.
Mr As representative didnt agree. It said the initial advice amounted to two pieces of advice 
 one in relation to each pension. And that in fact there was a third piece of advice in 
November 2017 when advice was given on which DFM to use.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was satisfied one financial service had been provided 
and so all of Mr As complaint should be addressed in one decision. I was also satisfied:
Mr Y had advised Mr A to transfer his pensions to a SIPP to use a DFM and was also 
involved in making the arrangements for this. So, Mr Y had carried out regulated 
activities, or acts ancillary to regulated activities.Although Mr Y had been acting as T, for N, when he initially advised Mr A, I was 
satisfied he was acting for Pi from 12 June 2017 when Mr A signed a client 
agreement with Future.
Even if the DFM recommendation was unauthorised under the appointed 
representative agreement between Future and Pi, the regulated activities in relation 
to the SIPP and Mr As previous pensions werent and so were within the actual 
authority of Future. Because the DFM recommendation was done in the course of 
business for which Pi accepted responsibility, we can look at the complaint.
Future had been obliged to give advice on the arrangement as a whole and had 
given advice on the DFM. It was therefore obliged to make sure the transfer, switch 
and DFM were suitable. Mr A moving away from his existing pensions to a SIPP to 
use a DFM wasnt in his best interests and Future should have advised him of that.
If everything had happened as it should have, Mr A would have left his pensions 
where they were.
I therefore proposed compensation that I was satisfied put Mr A as closely as possible into 
the position he would probably now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice.
I later wrote to Mr A explaining that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has launched a 
consultation on changes to its guidance on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined 
benefit pension transfers. And I asked whether he would want Pi to calculate any 
compensation due in line with the guidance in FG 17/9 (as I recommended in my provisional 
decision) or in line with any new rules or guidance that are expected to come into force in 
early 2023.
Mr A replied to say he accepts the provisional decision and that hes happy for any 
compensation due to be calculated in line with the guidance in FG 17/9. Pi replied to say it 
doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Ive read and considered Pis response in its 
entirety. In summary, it set out a timeline of the relevant events and said:
The advice process was concluded before Mr A even became aware of the existence 
of Pi. Pi isnt responsible for the advice.
The letter of 8 May 2017 which contained the advice to transfer and use a DFM was 
clearly from T and neither Future nor Pi had any involvement in it. It also confirmed 
that ongoing management charges would be paid to T.
The letter dated 8 June 2017 was clear that the relationship with Pi was prospective 
and no responsibility was taken for advice previously given by T. That letter was also 
clear that the decision to transfer and use a DFM had already been made.
The client agreement with Future wasnt signed until 12 June 2017 and by that point 
all the actions had been completed that had a causative potency in relation to the 
transfer and DFM investment.
Pi received no fees or commission for the creation of the SIPP or the subsequent 
investments made.
Anderson v Sense Network established that a principal can restrict the permission it 
gives to an appointed representative and Future was restricted from doing business with the DFM that was used here. Pi therefore didnt accept responsibility for the 
transaction.
Terms of business between the SIPP provider and Future were signed on 
12 December 2017  after both the pension switch and transfer. The SIPP provider 
cant have been acting on Futures instructions before 12 December 2017 therefore. 
The only logical conclusion is that the SIPP provider transacted the business on Ts 
behalf. And in fact, the SIPP provider said Ts permissions had been enough for it to 
introduce members. The SIPP certificate of membership and DFM paperwork 
referring to T are therefore accurate reflections of what was happening at the time. 
And theres no justification for reaching a different conclusion to the one the 
contemporaneous documents point to.
Mr Y would have known he couldnt use the DFM used here when completing 
business via Future which further points to the fact he completed it via T.
The TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service case I referred to in my 
provisional decision specifically applies to regulated and unregulated business and 
theres no basis for saying it also applies to acceptance of responsibility by a 
principal under Section 39 FSMA. My conclusion also runs contrary to the Anderson 
v Sense Network case which established that a principal can restrict the permission it 
gives to an appointed representative. Here, Pi forbade its advisors from dealing with 
the DFM that was used.
Responsibility must attach to T for the fact Mr Y was using his agency with it.
At most, Pis involvement was purely administrative  accepting fees to prevent them 
being paid to Ns administrator. No part of the transaction was completed via Pi, 
other than the payment of fees so it should have no liability. My decision accepts that 
no liability should attach to T despite its agency being used for advice and 
administrative tasks and instead attaches liability to Pi which only completed one 
administrative task and gave no advice.
Pi wasnt obliged to revisit the advice given by T and ensure its suitability. In any 
event, no advisor is under a duty to ensure suitability  advice is suitable unless its 
so unsuitable that no reasonable advisor could have given it.
No complaint would have been made against Pi if either T or N had been able to 
meet it. The fact theyre not able to meet it doesnt mean Pi should.
What Ive decided  the number of complaints that have been made
Because my decision is the same as my provisional decision and no further points have 
been made on this issue, Ive repeated my provisional findings below.
The FCA Handbook defines a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, 
claims management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, 
material distress or material inconvenience; and(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with 
whom that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing 
financial services or products or claims management services, which 
comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The key question here is whether the complaint is about one or more provisions of a 
financial service. The advice Mr Y gave encompassed two separate pensions. But that 
doesnt necessarily mean more than one financial service was provided. To decide how 
many financial services were provided, I must consider the purpose and nature of the 
advice.
I know Mr A will be disappointed, but my decision is that his complaint relates to the 
provision of one overarching financial service. Im satisfied there was one objective behind 
the service Mr Y provided  to advise Mr A on his pension arrangements. Specifically, here 
the advice was to transfer his pensions to a SIPP to use a DFM service. Such an advice 
service is often delivered in stages and may encompass a number of transactions, but its 
still, nevertheless, one service. 
No DFM was named at the time of the advice and its not clear whether one had been 
chosen at that point. But even if the DFM wasnt chosen until around six months later, as 
Mr A says, that simply means another transaction potentially occurred at that point. It doesnt 
change the fact that there was only one overall advice service. And its the advice service 
Mr A has complained about. I also note that the DFM was chosen a very short time after the 
defined benefit pension was transferred to the SIPP which suggests the delay was simply 
because of logistics.
Im therefore satisfied one financial service was provided and so Ive addressed all of Mr As 
complaint in this decision.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction 
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im still satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. By this, I mean that its a 
complaint I can consider against Pi as it concerns acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative for which it accepted responsibility.
Because my decision is the same as my provisional decision, Ive repeated my provisional 
findings below with my findings on Pis additional points added.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Future wasnt directly authorised. 
Instead, it was an appointed representative of Pi. Pi is an authorised firm. Its authorised by 
the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on investments and 
arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints about Pi. And this 
includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered in the case of Anderson v Sense Network 
[2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of Appeal issued a 
decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, Mr Justice Jacobs said:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Pi was authorised to do. I agree with 
Pi that whether its responsible for the actions of Mr Y here is determined by considering the 
terms of the contract between Future and Pi  the appointed representative agreement.
To decide whether Pi is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr A has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr A has complained about?
Mr As complaint is about what he says was unsuitable advice from Mr Y and covers the 
whole period over which that advice was given  from the initial review of his pensions to the 
inception of the DFM arrangement. That involved a number of different acts:
The initial advice which seems to have been given on 8 May 2017 following a 
Pension Transfer Report dated 26 April 2017. 
The amended advice  to reflect the fact a new SIPP operator was being 
recommended  which was given on 8 June 2017 with an updated Pension Transfer 
Report dated 7 June 2017. 
Arranging setting up the SIPP which was completed on 15 June 2017.
Arranging the switch of the defined contribution pension which happened on 
4 September 2017.Arranging the transfer of the defined benefit pension which happened on 
20 November 2017.
The advice to use the DFM that was used and making arrangements to use that 
DFM. Exactly when this happened isnt clear, but when I asked Mr A for his 
recollections of this, he said Mr Y phoned him in November 2017 and recommended 
the DFM at that point. This is plausible and I have no reason to doubt Mr As 
recollection.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
arranging deals in investments is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
Its clear that Mr Y advised Mr A to transfer his pensions to a SIPP to use a DFM. He was 
also involved in making the arrangements for this. Im therefore satisfied Mr Y carried out 
regulated activities, or acts ancillary to regulated activities, in relation to each of the activities 
listed above.
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr Y acting for?
To answer whether Pi accepted responsibility for the acts complained of, the first question I 
need to satisfy myself of is whether Mr Y was acting for Pi when carrying out any of the acts. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that Mr Y was acting as T, for N, when he 
initially advised Mr A. I accept that the letter of 8 May 2017 was sent as T and neither Future 
nor Pi had any involvement in it. Its also clear that at that point Mr A wasnt even aware of 
the existence of Future or Pi. But taking everything into account, Im still satisfied Mr Y was 
acting for Pi from 12 June 2017. I say this because:
On 8 June 2017, Mr Y told Mr A he was amending his advice and was 
recommending a different SIPP operator. As set out above, the letter set out the 
advice and then said:
Further to our conversation, please also find enclosed documentation regarding 
our change of network as we will no longer be under [N] as there [sic] 
permissions will be ceasing but will be under Pi Financial Ltd (FCA 186419). This 
will be under our company Future Wealth Management so if you could please 
sign the client agreement and accompanying letter and enclose this within the 
stamped addressed envelope we can start the discharge process for you. This again to reiterate doesnt change any of the advice or fees agreed it simply 
changes the network through which they go through.
Mr A signed a client agreement with Future on 12 June 2017. Although the Initial 
Services to be Provided section was left blank, this had alongside it a section called 
Details of Agreed Fee and this had been filled in with 4% OF ALL TRANSFERS 
IN. Im satisfied this refers to the fee payable for the pension advice provided.
I accept that Pi received no fees or commission for the creation of the SIPP or the 
subsequent investments made. But as Ive set out above, £13,075.15 was sent to Pi 
on 12 October 2017 and £9,240 on 22 November 2017  a total of £22,315.15. Both 
were initial fees linked to the pension money being transferred into the SIPP. It 
seems as though Pi retained a portion of the fees  although it initially said all the 
money was transferred to Mr Y, it later clarified he was subject to a 5% retainer, so 
he was transferred £21,199.39 and it retained £1,115.76. 
Pi says N had been entitled to the fees, but Mr Y had agreed with N that theyd be 
paid to Pi instead. Pi says it assumes this was to prevent the fees going to Ns 
administration. Ive thought about this carefully, but I cant ignore the fact that the 
client agreement with Pi said 4% of the money transferred into the SIPP was an 
Agreed Fee for Pi and this then was paid to Pi. And, as set out above, Im satisfied 
this was a fee for the pension advice.
When asked about its understanding of which business Mr Y was acting as, the SIPP 
provider said.
In May 2017, [Mr Y] advised us that he was intending switching his members 
from [T] to Future Wealth Management Ltd (Future). At the time he had two firms:
[T], an FCA authorised appointed representative of [N]
Future, an FCA authorised appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd
He advised that he only wanted to work with the Pi Financial network going 
forward.
Therefore, all invoices from either [T] or [F] requested payment to be made to Pi 
Financial
We did not have any contact with Pi Financial at the time, as the FCA register 
clearly showed Future as their appointed representatives and we had no reason 
to suggest there was anything untoward.
In answer to the question of why its records refer to Mr Y representing T after this 
point, it said:
The issue at the time is that we were still going through our due diligence process 
with Future Wealth Management Ltd, which does take some time, and did not yet 
have them set up on [our] system. Therefore, [Mr Y] was introducing members 
under [T], which he was authorised to do, in the knowledge that, in the time 
between us setting up the SIPP and receiving the funds into the account when 
fees and charges become due, we would have Future Wealth Management set 
up and we could pay the charges to Pi Financial Ltd, as he wanted. In [Mr As] 
case, it was almost 3 months from when we set up his SIPP to when we received 
his first funds.And it also explained:
There was no rush to set up Terms of Business with Future/Pi, as we were still in 
the early stages of discussions about receiving introductions and [Ts] 
permissions were adequate to introduce members into the [SIPP]. It would not 
become necessary to set up TOBs with Future/Pi until we received funds for the 
members and looked to place investments on their behalf. We requested that the 
TOBs be set up some time prior to when we eventually received them but due to 
a mixture of holidays and lack of urgency on [Mr Ys] part, we didnt receive 
signed ToBs from Future Wealth until 7th December 2017, when we also received 
the first investment instructions for their members. The forms were then passed 
on to Pi Financial for their signature. We received their signed forms on 
18th December 2017 and we added Future Wealth to our system on 
19th December 2017.
I agree with Pi that the letter dated 8 June 2017 was clear that Mr As relationship with it was 
prospective and that no responsibility was taken for advice previously given by T. But I also 
note that that letter referred to a discharge process once the new client agreement had 
been signed. It therefore clearly wasnt envisaged that T and Future would provide services 
concurrently and instead it was intended thered be a transition from one to the other. Im 
satisfied that once the Future client agreement was signed, Mr Y was acting as Future (and 
therefore for Pi). I therefore dont agree that the only part of the transaction that was 
completed via Pi was the payment of fees, or that Pis involvement was purely 
administrative.
Pi says because terms of business between the SIPP provider and Future werent signed 
until 12 December 2017  after both the pension switch and transfer  the SIPP provider 
cant have been acting on Futures instructions before 12 December 2017. I dont agree. The 
SIPP provider had been told in May 2017 that Mr Y would be acting as Future and for Pi 
moving forward. And its only reasoning for continuing to use Ts agency seems to have been 
that terms of business hadnt yet been agreed with Future and it was still possible to use Ts 
agency. In all the circumstances here, Im still satisfied that the use of Ts agency was purely 
for administrative purposes and all the parties involved understood that and knew that the 
SIPP provider was really acting on Futures instructions.
Pi also says that Mr Y knew he couldnt use the DFM used here when completing business 
via Future. It says this further points to the fact he completed the business via T. But having 
told Mr A hed be representing Future moving forward, I would have then expected him to 
explain that things would be different for the DFM recommendation if that was his intention. 
And theres no evidence that was done.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I accept the SIPP certificate of membership and the 
paperwork for the DFM refer to Mr Y acting on behalf of T. And I note theyre 
contemporaneous documents. But taking everything into account and given my findings 
above, Im still not persuaded these were a true reflection of what was happening, and I 
dont think they can be relied on.
Instead, I find it much more likely that from 12 June 2017, Mr Y was acting as Future, and 
therefore for Pi, and simply using his other agency that still existed for administrative 
purposes to get the business through the SIPP operator because Future/Pi wasnt set up 
with it yet. Both Mr A and the SIPP provider had been told, in May 2017 and June 2017 
respectively, that Mr Y would be acting as Future and for Pi moving forward and nothing that 
happened after persuades me that was no longer the case.Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility for the acts complained 
about under the appointed representative agreement it had with Future.
The appointed representative agreement
Pi has provided two appointed representative agreements between itself and Future. I note 
that the relevant content is almost identical, but Ive quoted the one dated 15 January 2015 
in this decision as thats the most recent and so is closer in time to the events complained 
about here.
Some relevant sections of the agreement include:
2.1 The Company appoints the Appointed Representative to provide Services for the 
Company on the terms set out in this Agreement and the Appointed Representative 
accepts such terms, with effect from 15th January 2015.
2.2 The Company may at any time prohibit, restrict, add to or otherwise change the 
Services by notification In Writing to the Appointed Representative, and will use its 
reasonable endeavours to give at least 14 days notice of any change
4.2 The Appointed Representative shall, when performing his obligations under the 
terms of this Agreement comply with
4.2.4 the Companys instructions in Writing from time to time, including the provision 
of any compliance or procedure manual issued by the Company.
Services was defined as:
any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to undertake from time to 
time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving advice, making 
arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term assurance, 
mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered in 
the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
So, the appointed representative agreement allowed Future (and therefore Mr Y) to carry out 
all the activities Mr A has complained about in theory, subject to compliance with any 
instructions in Writing given by Pi.
Pi says a due diligence requirement would have been repeated to Mr Y numerous times. 
Its shared Compliance Bulletin 3/17 which included the below item:
Due diligence
We have had a few instances recently where advisers are recommending products or 
using providers without the required due diligence being completed. This is a breach 
of our systems and processes, and leaves both the adviser and pi financial open to 
scrutiny from both the FCA and PII.
We have outlined the process for this situation many times but, as a reminder:
If you are considering the use of a provider who you have not used before you 
must contact the compliance department in the first instance to find out if due 
diligence has been carried out previously and if we have a relationship in place 
with them.If we do not have a relationship with them, due diligence will be carried out by 
compliance. You must not recommend their use until compliance have confirmed 
that all due diligence has been completed satisfactorily.
Its provided internal records that show this bulletin was issued to Mr Y on 22 June 2017 and 
that he passed a test on it with 90% on 6 July 2017. Its also provided certificates of 
attendance at briefings where it says the need for fund approval was discussed. As well as a 
separate test Mr Y took where a question related to the requirement for Pi to carry out due 
diligence on alternative investments.
Pi says that even if Mr Y was acting for it at the time of the acts complained about, he didnt 
get approval from it and so its not responsible. Its also provided a rejection notice dated 
5 October 2017 for the DFM used by Mr A. It says this would have been sent to all advisers 
 including Mr Y. This set out a number of issues with the DFM and concluded:
The Firm believes the issues above provide too much risk to the client, adviser and 
Firm to provide PI cover and compliance support on any recommendations.
No new business can be introduced to [the DFM].
I havent been provided with evidence that Mr Y was issued with a copy of that notice of 
rejection. But even if he was, Im satisfied it wouldnt affect my conclusion.
I accept that the Anderson v Sense Network case established that a principal can restrict the 
permission it gives to an appointed representative. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, in the case of TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 
(Admin), Mr Justice Ouseley said:
Of course, the FSMA draws a clear distinction between regulated and unregulated 
activities. But that does not answer the question of what activities amount to 
regulated activities where a single braided stream of advice is given to a client about 
regulated and unregulated investments. Paragraph 53 of the 2001 Order deals with 
advising as a specified kind of activity, it is a regulated activity when advising in 
relation to a specified investment on the merits of an investor or potential investor 
selling a relevant investment. Rule 2.3.1 of DISP2 provides that a complaint can be 
considered if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on one or more of the 
following activities. Carrying on an activity includes offering or providing or failing to 
provide a service in relation to an activity. That language does not permit a bright line 
to be drawn between advice on selling the regulated investment and buying the 
unregulated investment, where the purpose of the sale is to enable a purchase. The 
advice on such a sale is inextricably linked to the advice on the purchase. A bright 
line, one side of which is regulated and on the other side of which is unregulated, 
would only reflect the facts of the situation where the regulated and unregulated 
activities were themselves brightly divided. But their edges may be blurred; or they 
may be inextricably linked. The law governing the Ombudsmans jurisdiction could 
not force facts into unrealistic compartmentalisation without undermining its purpose 
and effectiveness
[Counsel for the principal] was concerned at the description of buying and selling as 
intrinsically linked. On these facts, that is a fair characterisation of the relationship, 
but it cannot be a sound general description of every relationship between selling and 
buying investments. I do not think that the Ombudsmans description of the advice to 
buy or the purchase transactions themselves as ancillary to the advice to sell is 
accurate. Neither aspect of the advice was in reality ancillary here; both were the 
significant components of the single stream of advice; the regulated advice was motivated by the proposals for unregulated investment. The FSMA intended that 
regulated activity, and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should be part of a financial 
service consumers protection. The legislative provisions should be construed so 
that, if part of what is done as a single activity is regulated, the whole is regulated 
rather than the other way round. Otherwise, the regulated part loses the protection 
which the FSMA requires that it should have. If, to accord that protection, aspects 
which by themselves would not be regulated are brought into the protective scope of 
regulation and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction, those giving advice will have to make 
sure that their regulated and unregulated activities are separated, rather than using 
the unregulated to escape the consequences of intermingling them with the 
regulated.
So, if one component activity of advice is regulated and another is unregulated, the effect of 
FSMA is that the whole advice is regulated. 
Here, arrangements were made for a SIPP to be set up for Mr A and his pensions 
transferred to that SIPP so a relationship could be set up with a DFM. I havent been 
provided with anything that suggests Mr Y wasnt allowed to carry out regulated activities in 
relation to the SIPP or Mr As previous pensions. So, Im still satisfied the activities he 
carried out in relation to those products fell within the actual authority of Future. So even if 
one component activity in the advice (the DFM recommendation) was unauthorised  as Pi 
says it was and as Anderson v Sense Network made clear was allowed  I havent seen 
anything that suggests the remainder was. And therefore, the DFM recommendation was 
done in the course of business for which Pi accepted responsibility.
Pi says the reasoning of TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service applies to regulated 
and unregulated activities and theres no basis for saying it applies to the acceptance of 
responsibility by a principal. But I dont agree. In TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Mr Justice Ouseley went on to say:
In my judgment, the same analysis which persuaded the Ombudsman and me that 
the activities were so closely linked that they amounted to regulated activities, 
impels the conclusion that they come within s39(3).
And in the earlier case of Martin v Britannia [1999] EWHC 852 (Ch), Mr Justice Parker held 
that:
In my judgment, advice as to the merits of buying or surrendering an investment 
cannot be sensibly be treated as confined to a consideration of the advantages or 
disadvantages of a particular investment as a product, without reference to the 
wider financial context in which the advice is tenderedIn my judgment it is neither 
appropriate in the context of the 1986 Act, nor for that matter would it be realistic, to 
seek to limit the concept of investment advice by reference to the extent to which 
the advice relates to the merits (i.e. to the advantages or disadvantages) of a 
particular investment as defined; and if that be accepted, it seems to me that it must 
follow that the concept of investment advice will comprehend all financial advice 
given to a prospective client with a view to or in connection with the purchase, sale or 
surrender of an investment, including advice as to any associated or ancillary 
transaction notwithstanding that such transaction may not fall within the definition of 
investment business for the purposes of the 1986 Act.
Im therefore still satisfied the same reasoning applies to responsibility under Section 39 
FSMA.
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that this is a complaint that we can look at.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because my decision is the same as my provisional decision, Ive repeated my provisional 
findings below with my findings on Pis additional points added.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses which are fundamental 
obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 R). These include:
Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Pi. As such, I need 
to have regard to them in deciding Mr As complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
Pi says Future wasnt obliged to revisit the advice given by T and ensure its suitability. But 
Im still satisfied that in the circumstances here, Future was obliged to give advice on the 
arrangement as a whole and did give advice on the DFM. It was therefore obliged to ensure 
the transfer, switch and DFM were suitable.
Pi says that no advisor is under a duty to ensure suitability and that advice is suitable unless 
its so unsuitable that no reasonable advisor could have given it. COBS 19.1.6 sets out that:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients best 
interests.
Although Mr Y didnt provide advice on the pension transfer as Future, Im satisfied the 
starting presumption is still the same for ensuring suitability  that a transfer of a defined 
benefit pension is unsuitable unless theres clear evidence it was in the clients best 
interests.At the time of the advice, Mr A was 59 and married with four children. His recollection from 
the time is that a family friend recommended he had his pensions reviewed. He was referred 
to Mr Y who said hed carry out a free review. Mr A has told us:
The only reason I decided to have a review was to ensure that my pension was 
working for me. I knew very little about pensions and having not had any other 
investments I was ultimately reliant upon the information and advice provided to me 
by [Mr Y]. In my discussions with [Mr Y] (19/5/2017) we looked at the projections 
from existing workplace pensions and what [Mr Y] stated was that he could achieve 
on a conservative basis 2% above the existing plan. [Mr Y] then highlighted various 
benefits such as accessing tax free cash, however declaring this could only be done 
if I transferred out of the scheme.
Mr Y noted the attitude to risk questionnaire Mr A filled in had recorded his attitude to risk as 
highest medium. The advice report that Mr Y produced focussed on the defined benefit 
pension, simply saying of the defined contribution pension You hold a money purchase 
scheme that you wish to transfer with your [defined benefit pension] for consolidation. In 
relation to the defined benefit pension, the report included the below:
You have contacted us as you are currently a deferred member of the [defined 
benefit pension scheme]. You have confirmed to us that the benefits provided by 
such a scheme are not your main priorities for retirement. You have stated that your 
main goal is to access your tax free to provide your 4 children with £20k each. Death 
benefits are also a primary concern for you as you have had [health issues] and wish 
to secure the fund. You have a pension with you [sic] current employer that is worth 
£350k that you will continue paying into and draw an income from when you retire
It needs to be stressed that most often it is not in someones best interest to transfer 
their benefits out of such a scheme, and the most common advice is to leave the 
benefits where they are.
However, this may not be the case if the potential benefits that could be paid in the 
future do not suit your specific objectives or preferences which may be better suited 
to an alternative type of arrangement.
You have specifically confirmed that you would prefer to access the new pension 
freedoms when you retire and take your benefits. The ability to take a lump sum and 
as much income as you need whenever you need it is far more important to you than 
the regular guaranteed income provided by a DB scheme
I do stress that if you were to transfer this pension to the proposed SIPP, it would 
need to return over 50% per annum each year until retirement to provide a fund in 
retirement sufficient to purchase an annuity equal to the benefits provided by the 
[defined benefit] pension scheme at age 60. If this is not the case then the amount 
you receive when you take your pension could turn out to be less than the amount 
projected by the [defined benefit] pension scheme. Although a defined pension is 
obviously an important potential benefit it should still be balanced with your overall 
objectives.
You need to be aware that if this is the case, you may not receive as high an income 
in retirement as you would have if you left the value in your existing arrangements.
As such, there may be a disadvantage to transferring the pension from this 
perspective as it depends on investment performance. You are moving your pension 
monies from a DB scheme where you do not bear the investment risk, to one that you do. It could also be said that if you achieve a higher growth rate it could result in 
a higher pension but this is not guaranteed
Based upon the historic and expected returns from an investment portfolio matching 
your attitude to risk of 7 out of 10, I must stress that it is highly unlikely that you will 
achieve a return of over 50% per annum every year until retirement. If your intention 
was solely to match, or improve, the pension income on offer from your final salary 
scheme and your intention was to purchase an annuity to provide a fixed and 
guaranteed level of income at retirement, then you should not proceed with this 
transfer
However, as you have stated that the existing scheme does not match your 
objectives, there are other reasons for considering the transfer, as detailed earlier in 
the report
It is vital to stress though that if the assumptions above are not achieved you could 
have far less pension in comparison to your DB scheme, so this needs to be viewed 
in line with your attitude to risk. You could be worse off if this occurred
You have stated that as you will not be dependent on this pension as your sole 
means of retirement, your main priority is to access the new pension freedoms.
Your lifestyle in retirement would be better suited to taking income when you need 
and as often as you like.
This contrasts to the benefits of the Defined Benefit Scheme which, when taken, 
provides the same income (increased by inflation) throughout your life and then 
66.67% to your surviving spouse. You are more concerned about securing the fund 
value in total for your dependents.
You much prefer the situation whereby you can take as much income as you need 
each year and that this flexibility can continue for your spouse and family once you 
are deceased.
You are fully aware that you can erode the pension down to nothing if you take too 
much income but are prepared to take the risks. More importantly, I have confirmed 
you can afford to take those risks.
In relation to both of Mr As existing pensions, the projected fund comparisons to a SIPP with 
a DFM arrangement showed that under all assumed growth scenarios Mr A would be 
significantly worse off by age 65 if he transferred away from his existing pensions. One of 
the factors in this was that the initial and ongoing charges associated with the SIPP and 
DFM were significantly higher than what Mr A had with his existing pensions.
In these circumstances, and particularly considering one of the pensions was a defined 
benefit pension, there would have to be a strong and persuasive reason to ignore that and 
move to a SIPP anyway.
The advice report emphasised Mr As desire to take tax-free cash to give to his children  
and Mr A then did this. However, Mr A has said this wasnt an initial motive for him in 
seeking pension advice or what prompted him to have a pension review. I find Mr As 
evidence on this point persuasive. And like the investigator, I note that he could have taken 
tax-free cash from his defined contribution pension at that time. And he wouldnt have 
needed to have waited much longer to have also been able to take tax-free cash from his defined benefit pension. Im therefore not persuaded the ability to take tax-free cash made 
the move to a SIPP suitable.
I also note that the investments Mr A ended up with in his SIPP through the DFM were 
unregulated with many risk factors. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr A moving away from his existing 
pensions to a SIPP to use a DFM wasnt in his best interests and Future should have 
advised Mr A of that.
Pi has said that by the time the client agreement with Future was signed on 12 June 2017, 
all of the actions with a causative potency had been completed. But although Mr A may 
have initially made his decision based on Ts advice, Im satisfied that if Future had done 
what it should have and had advised Mr A that moving his pensions to a SIPP to use a DFM 
wasnt in his best interests, its most likely Mr A would have listened to that. Theres nothing 
that makes me think Mr A was so wedded to the initial advice that he would have refused to 
listen to advice to the contrary.
Pi has commented on Ts responsibility for what happened and says responsibility must 
attach to T for the fact Mr Y was using his agency with it. It says my decision accepts that no 
liability should attach to T despite its agency being used for advice and administrative tasks. 
But this decision is about Pis responsibility. And because Im satisfied Mr A wouldnt have 
moved his pensions to a SIPP to use a DFM if Future had done what it should have done, I 
think its fair to ask Pi to compensate Mr A for the full measure of the loss he suffered from 
moving his pensions and using a DFM.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R). Another business may have given Mr A advice, but Pi had its own distinct 
regulatory obligations which, if met, Im satisfied would have resulted in the pension moves 
to the SIPP not taking place.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Mr A. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks like in 
this case, its reasonable to make an award against Pi that requires it to compensate Mr A 
for the full measure of his loss. But for Pis failings, Mr As pension moves wouldnt have 
occurred in the first place.
Im not asking Pi to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im 
satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another party 
might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which Im not able to 
determine as its not a complaint Im considering here. However, that fact shouldnt impact 
on Mr As right to compensation from Pi for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if everything had happened as it should have. I take the view that Mr A wouldnt 
have moved his pensions. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable.
In summary, Pi should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr A has suffered as a result of making the defined contribution 
pension switch and investments.2. Calculate the loss Mr A has suffered as a result of making the defined benefit 
pension transfer and investments.
3. Take ownership of the investments held in the SIPP if possible.
4. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr As pension in respect of his pension loss. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr A direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
5. Pay Mr As SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes not now able to close 
his SIPP.
6. Pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr A.
7. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 90 days of notification 
of acceptance by Mr A.
Ill explain how Pi should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr A has suffered as a result of making the defined contribution 
pension switch and investments.
To do this, Pi should work out the likely value of Mr As defined contribution pension as at 
the date of this decision, had he left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Pi should ask Mr As former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer value 
had he not switched his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, 
then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 
50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that could have been achieved if the pension hadnt been switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the proportion of the transfer value of the 
SIPP that relates to this pension at the date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr A 
has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr A paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end. The £80,000 that was subject to a drawdown on 12 October 2017 was from this 
pension as the defined contribution pension hadnt been transferred into the SIPP at that 
point. Whereas the £57,511.62 that was subject to a drawdown on 30 October 2019 will 
need to be assigned proportionately between the two pensions.
2. Calculate the loss Mr A has suffered as a result of making the defined benefit 
pension transfer and investments.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new defined benefit transfer redress 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 
2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
arent necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it 
could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to their 
customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. But 
until changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
We asked Mr A whether he preferred for any redress to be calculated now in line with 
current guidance or to wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. Hes chosen not to 
wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG 17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr A.
So to calculate the loss Mr A has suffered as a result of making the defined benefit pension 
transfer and investments, Pi must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance 
for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As noted above, 
the £57,511.62 that was subject to a drawdown on 30 October 2019 will need to be assigned 
proportionately between the two pensions. And the transfer value assigned to the SIPP will 
need to be the proportion that relates to this pension. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Pi may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Pi to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules 
and/or guidance in any event. 
3. Take ownership of the investments
Ideally, the assets in the SIPP  the investments  could be removed from the SIPP. Mr A 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Pi should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value for the investments. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and 
take ownership of them.If Pi is able to purchase the investments, then the prices paid should be allowed for in the 
current transfer value (because theyll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investments).
If Pi is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investments, it should give them a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr A is compensated in full, 
Pi may ask Mr A to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP might receive from the investments. That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr A may receive from the investments and any 
eventual sums hed be able to access from the SIPP. Pi will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
4. Pay compensation to Mr A for the loss hes suffered in (1) and (2)
Since the loss Mr A has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr As pension plan. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mr A could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr As marginal rate of tax.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
5. SIPP fees
If Mr A is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Pi should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr A would not be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the investments and the SIPP to be closed.
6. Trouble and upset
Pay Mr A £500 for trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr A has been caused significant 
upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, all his pension fund. I 
think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that upset.
7. Pay interest
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date 
Pi receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pi to pay 
Mr A.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr A a tax deduction certificate 
in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
My decision is that Mr As complaint against Pi Financial Ltd is in the Financial Ombudsman 
Services jurisdiction and should be upheld.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr A the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Pi Financial Ltd 
to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr A the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated, as set 
out above, on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
This recommendation is not part of my decision or award. Pi Financial Ltd doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. Mr A may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman