DRN-2008733
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has dealt with a claim he made 
for damaged flooring. Mr T says its unfair for AXA to treat his claim as two claims and 
charge two excesses, and its offer to clean his carpets and replace some lino isnt good 
enough.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T says the accidental damage to his carpets was caused by one event  the 
carpet cleaner hed borrowed leaked. So he thinks its unfair for AXA to treat what 
happened as two events and charge two excesses. But Mr T told us he thought the 
cleaner was faulty when he first used it so he stopped. He then decided it was 
working  and went on to clean a carpet in a different room and damaged it. I think 
that AXA was fair to say this was two separate lots of accidental damage, as they 
occurred at separate times and places  even if the time and places were close.
AXA has made an offer to repair the damage to the carpets by cleaning them, which 
is one of the remedies it can choose under the terms and conditions in Mr Ts policy. 
The choice of remedy is AXAs, not Mr Ts. If cleaning doesnt work then replacement 
might be considered. I dont think its unfair for AXA to try the cheapest remedy first, 
especially as Mr T was happy to clean them himself in the first place.
There was some confusion about why AXA wasnt going to replace the lino. The 
survey noted replacement would cost less than the excess  so it would cost Mr T 
more to have the work done by AXA and pay the excess than if he arranged it 
himself. AXA then said as Mr T threw the lino out, which should have been 
waterproof, it couldnt substantiate the damage  so it wouldnt pay. I can 
understand why Mr T took up the lino if it smelt  but he would have been wise to 
keep it until AXA had agreed his claim. Fortunately it doesnt appear to make a 
difference financially to Mr T whichever route is taken, and Im not going to ask AXA 
to do any more about this. 
Mr T wants not only the damaged carpets replaced but also an undamaged one in 
another room as they all match. Until cleaning has been tried it wouldnt be fair to 
ask AXA to replace any of the carpets. If AXA does replace any carpets, Im sure it 
will consider matching carpets in line with the policy terms and conditions, if thats 
appropriate.   
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman