DRN-3579792
The complaint
Mr M complains Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent to him 
when he couldnt afford the loan.
What happened
In March 2022,  Mr M took out a Fixed Loan Sum Agreement with Oakbrook for £2,000 
payable over 36 months with a monthly repayment of £97.42. The annual percentage rate of 
interest was 49.69% with a total repayable amount of £3,507.12. Mr M said Oakbrook hadnt 
checked his true financial position and shouldnt have lent to him. He complained to them.
Oakbrook said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to determine Mr Ms 
financial position at the time of the loan. They said they considered Mr Ms housing costs, 
existing credit commitments, living expenses and the monthly cost of the applied for loan.  
Their affordability assessment showed Mr M had disposable income of £921.08, and that 
they deemed the loan to be affordable. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Oakbrooks response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Oakbrook had carried out proportionate and reasonable checks for the 
applied for loan. She didnt ask Oakbrook to do anything further.
Mr M didnt agree he said hed several credit commitments that Oakbrook hadnt considered. 
He asked for an ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mr M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Oakbrook make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr M 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Oakbrook lent to Mr M required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Oakbrook need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr M himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
So, Ive considered whether Oakbrook in lending to Mr M had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
him.
In March 2022 Mr M applied for a £2,000 loan payable over 36 months. His application 
showed him as living with his parents, he was employed and had an annual salary of 
£40,000. 
Oakbrook carried out checks before they agreed to provide Mr M with the loan. And this 
seems to be based on carrying out a credit check, reviewing a bank statement and carrying 
out an affordability assessment using a business standard percentage to calculate day to 
day living costs. Oakbrook has shown they used a monthly salary of £2,345.18 based on his 
annual income, housing costs of £344.60, day to day living costs of £602.08 and credit 
commitments of £330. Taking the new loan amount £97.42 and a contingency amount of 
£50, Oakbrook calculated that Mr M would have a disposable income of around £900. I can 
see they also carried out a credit check which showed hed an unsecured loan of £9,000 
repayable at £330 per month. And that Mr M was up to date with his commitments. So, 
Oakbrook considered the loan affordable.
I can see from the bank statement Mr M gave Oakbrook to consider prior to agreeing to the 
loan that hed, for February 2022, a monthly income of £1,925.08. This was less than the 
monthly income used in Oakbrooks assessment, but if this figure was used Oakbrook would 
still have calculated Mr M had sufficient disposable income to sustain his loan repayments.
The bank statement while it does show some gambling and cryptocurrency transactions and 
transfers in and out of another account remains for much of the month in credit, going 
slightly overdrawn just prior to Mr M being paid. The credit file check Oakbrook saw I dont think would have given them any concerns about the way Mr M was managing his finances, 
as his accounts were all up to date.
Mr M was borrowing £2,000, a relatively small amount over a relatively short period of time. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I think that Oakbrook carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mr Ms financial position. I say this because they looked at a bank 
statement that showed his monthly salary. And they carried out a credit check, which didnt 
record any defaults or show that Mr M wasnt managing his finances. 
Ive not seen anything to show from the information seen by Oakbrook that Mr M was unable 
to keep up repayments, so I dont think Oakbrook would have had an indication that Mr M 
couldnt sustain his credit commitments.
Mr M has sent other bank statements for another account (one of which is dated after the 
loan agreement was made) and a full credit report. But I cant hold Oakbrook responsible for 
something they havent seen or wouldnt have seen at the time of the loan. And as outlined 
about the checks they performed I think were proportionate for the loan applied for. So, I 
wouldnt have expected them to check further before agreeing to lend to Mr M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman