DRN-3438525
The complaint
Mr G complains Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) will not arrange for his shares to be 
registered into his own name.
What happened
Mr G bought shares using his Trading 212 account. His shares are registered to a nominee 
and held in a pooled (omnibus) account maintained by Trading 212s broker.
Mr G asked Trading 212 to send him share certificates for his holdings. Trading 212 sent him 
a confirmation of holdings certificate. Mr G wanted share certificates for his holdings but 
Trading 212 told him the certificate it had given him was all it could give him. A discussion 
followed about how Mr G could tell that the shares were there and were real.
Mr G later asked Trading 212 to have his shares registered into his own name. Trading 212 
told Mr G this wasnt an option it offered as part of its service, so it wouldnt arrange this.
Mr G has said Trading 212 would have to transfer the shares to the new owner if he sold 
them, so it must be able to transfer them into his name. Due to Trading 212s unwillingness 
to do so he said he had doubts as to whether the shares existed - as there werent any share 
certificates, he couldnt transfer the shares, he wasnt able to vote, the shares werent in his 
name, there wasnt a control number and all he had was Trading 212s promises and the 
certificate it had sent. Mr G said he didnt accept Trading 212s confirmation of holdings 
certificate as being genuine confirmation that it held a certain number of shares for him.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Having considered Mr Gs complaint, our investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld. 
Our investigators thoughts were, in brief:
Mr Gs shares were held for him by Trading 212 as shown on its system and in line with 
its terms. Mr G accepted these terms when he opened his account. The shares couldnt 
be transferred to Mr Gs name as this isnt a service Trading 212 offered. The shares 
were held by a third party for Mr G as the beneficiary. Trading 212s set up didnt allow 
the shares to be registered in Mr Gs name or held in another way. He could transfer 
elsewhere but Trading 212 didnt offer transfers of shares as shares (in-specie) - any 
transfer would have to be made as a cash transfer (after selling the shares).  
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators conclusion. 
Mr G provided further thoughts on the matter. These were, in brief summary:
He did not wish to do business with Trading 212 and it was refusing to give him his 
shares. He did not wish to transfer to another broker, he wished for his shares to be 
registered to their owner. The shares were held with a broker that did offer this as a 
service  Trading 212 was being purposefully difficult and refusing a simple request. 
Either he owned the shares or he didnt, and if he did he should be allowed to retain 
them with or without Trading 212  if he couldnt then he never owned the shares.
Not enabling him to have his shares put into his own name and have a share certificate 
(but sending him a confirmation of holdings) was like selling him a house, refusing to let 
him move in or access the deed but offering to send him a photocopy of the key. Forcing 
him to sell his shares to sever ties with Trading 212 was theft, like taking a car without 
asking but leaving a £20 note as payment.
Neither our investigator nor Mr G altered their respective views. So, as the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I dont think 
Trading 212 did anything wrong here. Ill explain my reasons briefly.
Ive thought carefully about all Mr Gs points, including those Ive outlined above. I dont 
overlook that the registration service Mr G wishes Trading 212 to perform is a service that 
relates directly to how Mr Gs ownership of his shares is evidenced and given effect. But I 
dont agree that Trading 212 not enabling Mr G to have his shares registered into his own 
name means his shares havent been bought for him or he isnt the real owner of the shares. 
Mr G is able to buy and sell the shares and to withdraw or transfer the sale proceeds.
Mr G signed up with Trading 212 on the basis that in some circumstances the service would 
limit what he could do with shares he bought within the service. For example, Trading 212s 
terms make clear transfers of shares in specie  in or out of Trading 212  was not a facility 
it offered. So if Mr G wished to leave Trading 212s service and move to a different service, 
he wouldnt be able to transfer his shares  he would need to sell them and transfer the cash 
instead. In my view it was open to Trading 212 to offer its service to Mr G on this basis, just 
as it was open to him to decide whether or not he wished to sign up for it on those terms. In 
my view the reorganisation of the registration of shares Mr G requested is similarly a service 
that it was open to Trading 212 to decide whether or not to provide to its customers.
From what Ive seen of its terms, Trading 212 made clear that shares bought for Mr G would 
be registered in the name of a nominee and pooled with those of other clients and he would 
be able to trade the shares electronically. Ive seen nothing in Trading 212s terms that offers 
or explicitly suggests it will agree to reorganise the registration of shares into a shareholders 
name. Mr G hasnt in the course of this complaint pointed to any misleading representations 
of that kind Trading 212 made to him. So Ive nothing to make me think Mr G was misled into 
signing up with Trading 212 by any false promises it made about offering this sort of service. 
If hed looked at the start into how to go about requesting this service from Trading 212, how 
it might work and what it might cost, he would have found it wasnt a service it offered at all. I dont overlook what Mr G says about the ownership and registration of the shares having to 
be changed by the broker when they are sold anyway. But Im also mindful that Trading 212 
offered trading on a nominee basis only and specifically said it would not transfer shares in 
kind to other services  so a change in the registration arrangements and a transfer of the 
shares in kind to new custody or trading arrangements of Mr Gs choosing, whatever those 
might be, would on the face of it involve Trading 212 in administrative arrangements and 
processes of a kind that it had specifically either chosen not to offer or said it wouldnt offer. 
These processes also do vary somewhat from the nominee services it did offer. So I dont 
agree Trading 212 was refusing a simple request or being purposefully difficult. All this 
reinforces my view that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require Trading 212 to 
carry out that service now.
In light of all Ive said above, I dont find Trading 212 to be at fault.
Im grateful to Mr G for his patience and courtesy throughout our consideration of his 
complaint - and for his points and prompt responses, which greatly assisted our inquiries.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman