DRN-2412502
The complaint
Mrs Y and Mr Y complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Y and Mr Y booked a world cruise holiday in March 2019. They took out a single trip 
travel insurance policy to cover their holiday on 3 January 2020 and they departed as 
planned on 10 January 2020. They were due to dock back in the UK on 18 April 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs and Mr Y missed scheduled port visits 
in Asia and travelled onto Australia. They told us the cruise operator cancelled the remainder 
of the cruise at this point. They arranged business class flights back to the UK and flew 
home on 16 March 2020. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs 
associated with cutting short their trip. They made a separate claim for the port stops that 
had been cancelled.
URV turned down Mrs and Mr Ys claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy didnt 
cover claims which happened because of changes to Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advice or Covid-19.
Mrs and Mr Y werent happy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think URV had treated Mrs and Mr Y fairly in the way it considered 
their curtailment claim. Thats because he noticed that while the policy specifically excluded 
curtailment claims related to changes to FCO guidance, it also excluded any cover if a 
policyholder travelled against FCO advice. This meant that Mrs and Mr Y werent covered for 
cutting short their trip; but they wouldnt have been covered for anything if theyd continued 
on their cruise as planned. The investigator didnt think this was a reasonable position for 
Mrs and Mr Y to be left in.
But the investigator wasnt persuaded that Mrs and Mr Y had shown theyd suffered a 
financial loss which should be covered by the policy.  Mrs Y told him during discussions that 
shed received a partial refund of her cruise costs and a refund of the pre-booked trip 
excursions from the tour operator. It was unclear whether the tour operator had offered to 
pay for a return flight for Mrs and Mr Y, which they had declined and chosen to book a 
business class flight instead. So the investigator asked Mrs and Mr Y to provide a full 
breakdown of the refunds theyd received, what theyd been offered by which parties and 
what costs were outstanding. Mrs Y provided an email from the cruise company which 
suggested itd offered a credit voucher for the lost cruise days and evidence of their flight 
costs. Based on the evidence, the investigator simply wasnt satisfied that Mrs and Mr Y had 
shown they had suffered a financial loss which would be covered by the terms of their policy.
Mrs and Mr Y disagreed. They said theyd felt in turmoil when they had to leave the cruise 
where theyd felt safe. All flights were fully booked and theyd booked business class 
because it felt safer. They felt theyd been neglected and ignored.  Mrs Y said shed provided 
receipts from the airline and an email from the cruise company. They wanted to know who 
would be refunding their flights.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs and Mr Y have shown they have a financial loss which is 
covered by their policy terms. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mrs 
and Mr Ys policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether URV should 
reasonably pay it.
There isnt any dispute that Mrs and Mr Ys cruise wasnt able to continue as planned. I dont 
doubt how disappointing the situation mustve been for them, as Im aware this was a long-
awaited trip, which theyd really looked forward to. I understand that they had no choice but 
to return home early.  Especially given that if they had travelled against FCO advice, they 
wouldnt have been insured at all. And I can understand why they were frustrated when URV 
turned down their claim because it didnt cover curtailment claims caused by changes to 
FCO guidance.
But in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I need to consider whether 
URVs decision to turn down the claim on that basis was unfair. I say that because Ive 
looked closely at the applicable policy terms and conditions, which form the terms of Mrs and 
Mr Ys contract with URV. The Curtailment Charges section sets out the things that URV 
does and doesnt cover. This states that URV will pay for irrecoverable travel and 
accommodation costs and any reasonable additional travel expenses a policyholder incurs.
Generally, its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on their policy and to 
provide evidence which demonstrates that their claim should be covered. So theyll need to 
provide the evidence an insurer requires to assess whether their costs are covered by the 
policy terms.
In this case, Mrs and Mr Y claimed for the costs of 29 lost days of their cruise, together with 
the costs of a business class return flight home. Ive seen receipts for the flight tickets Mrs 
and Mr Y paid to return from Australia to the UK, so Im aware of the total costs they 
incurred. But what isnt clear is whether the tour operator offered to pay for a standard return 
flight for Mrs and Mr Y, given the intention was that the cruise ship would return them to the 
UK. I say that because Mrs Y told our investigator:
(The tickets) were paid because we did not wish to fly home in an aircraft with many others 
without what we felt was protection against this virus, having been protected by the ship until 
then and of course we chose business for comfort.
This suggests that Mrs and Mr Y were offered the chance to fly home at the tour operators 
cost but turned it down due to concerns about Covid-19. It appears they felt Mr Y could be at 
higher risk because of his existing medical conditions and so they opted to fly business class 
instead.The investigator asked Mrs and Mr Y for more information about their flight and whether any 
offer was made by the tour operator, which they declined to take up. I also asked for some 
more information on this point. Mrs and Mr Y said there was nothing more they could 
provide.
Based on the evidence to hand, I dont think I have enough to fairly find that Mrs and Mr Y 
have shown they have a valid claim for their additional flight costs. Thats because it isnt 
clear whether they were offered the chance to mitigate their potential losses by taking a flight 
home at the tour operators expense. It also isnt clear whether the tour operator made any 
contribution towards the cost of the flights home, given the cruise was no longer returning 
Mrs and Mr Y to the UK. And we wouldnt generally expect an insurer to pay for business 
class seats unless in specific circumstances  usually on the advice of its medical team 
following illness or injury. In this case, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs and Mr Y 
needed business class seats, other than their personal preference. It would be for URV to 
consider any evidence and decide whether it felt business class seats were necessary in the 
circumstances.
It also isnt clear which costs the cruise company has reimbursed Mrs and Mrs Y and which 
form they took. Mrs Y told the investigator in November 2020 that theyd been refunded for 
the 29 lost days, together with cancelled excursions. She also provided an email from the 
cruise company dated 17 April 2020 which said that the refund for the lost cruise would be 
added to a future cruise and no other amounts were available, which suggested a credit 
voucher was offered. Its possible this offer was later amended to a proportionate cash 
refund. But in either case it seems that Mrs and Mr Y have recovered these losses from the 
cruise company. This means based on what Ive seen, theres no further liability to URV to 
cover for the costs associated with cutting short their cruise.
Both the investigator and I have requested further breakdowns of the costs Mrs and Mr Y are 
claiming, what theyve had back and what offers have been made. Im sorry to hear that 
theyve both been unwell and that Mr Y has been hospitalised. But it seems to me that on 
the evidence I have, Mrs and Mr Y simply havent provided enough to show me that theyve 
suffered a financial loss which would be covered by their policy terms. And in these specific 
circumstances, without the relevant information, I dont think I can reasonably direct URV to 
consider their claim. 
If Mrs and Mr Y are able to provide a more detailed breakdown of their losses and 
recoveries, its open to them to pass this information on to URV to decide whether or not its 
prepared to pay their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ys 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman