DRN-2648793
The complaint
Ms B has complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&Gs decision to 
decline a claim she made under her home insurance policy.
All reference to Fairmead in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In October 2019 Ms B said she and her family went on holiday. On return, they discovered 
that an outbuilding which has an indoor pool was damaged by mould. She said it seemed 
there had been a power surge while they were away causing the electrics to fail. This led to 
no ventilation and heating being supplied to the outbuilding. Ms B reported the damage to 
Fairmead.
Fairmead instructed a surveyor to attend the property. In his opinion, the mould damage had 
been caused over time. So Fairmead decided to decline the claim.
Ms B asked Fairmead to provide a copy of the report and details of the surveyors full name 
and qualifications. She obtained an independent report in December 2019 and provided a 
copy to Fairmead. She made a Subject Access Request (SAR) which Fairmead 
acknowledged. It asked Ms B to complete a form. Ms B was unhappy with the request as 
she didnt agree the additional information Fairmead asked for should be necessary. 
Ms B complained to Fairmead about its decision to decline the claim. She said an agent 
asked for her date of birth even though she knew Fairmead didnt hold it, so she gave an 
incorrect answer. However, the agent continued with the call. She was unhappy with the 
number of sub-contractors involved in the claim and with how her personal information might 
be used.
Fairmead didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. It said it considered the independent report Ms B 
provided. But it didnt change its decision. It agreed that the agent didnt hold Ms Bs date of 
birth when she called. But as Ms B passed the remaining security questions, it said it didnt 
act in error. Fairmead said the surveyor firm had called Ms B and explained it wouldnt 
release contact details or qualifications for the surveyor who attended. 
Fairmead explained that the damage wasnt consistent with being caused by a one off 
insurable event, but had occurred gradually. It said that mould damage was excluded from 
Ms Bs policy. 
Ms B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator provided Ms 
B with an extract of the wording provided by the surveyor who inspected the damage. His 
opinion was that the damage had been caused over some time due to the scale and severity 
of the mould visible. 
The investigator didnt recommend Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. As the policy 
excluded cover under the Accidental Damage section for loss or damage caused by mould, 
she thought Fairmead had correctly rejected the claim.
Ms B didnt agree. In summary she said:
The surveyor incorrectly stated that Ms B and her family had been away for a week, 
when it had been 26 days. His visit was 36 days after they went away. 
Her contractor provided meter readings which showed the mould could not have 
grown over time. 
She wanted an explanation as to why the work was sub contracted out and why the 
claim was turned down because mould would take longer to grow.
If mould was always excluded under the policy, why did Fairmead appoint a surveyor 
to inspect the damage. 
Ms B provided a copy of a reply she received from Fairmead dated 27 November 2020. As it 
included a reply to the original complaints Ms B made to Fairmead, I considered its content.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 January 2021. I explained that I couldnt consider 
complaints Ms B raised about the actions of the broker as this is a separate business to the 
underwriter, Fairmead. But I considered the complaint about Fairmeads decision to reject 
the claim  and the service she received from it. 
My provisional findings were as follows:
Fairmeads decision to reject her claim
When an underwriter rejects a claim, we look at what the policy says and whether the 
decision was fair and reasonable. 
Ms B reported the damage on return from being away to Fairmead in November 2019. She 
described there being mould and fur in the outbuilding pool room following what appeared to 
be a power surge which switched off the electricity. This meant no heating or ventilation was 
provided and moisture had built up causing damage. 
Fairmead instructed a surveyor to attend. I understand Ms B feels this shouldnt have 
happened if mould was always excluded under the policy. But I dont think Fairmeads 
decision to arrange an inspection was unreasonable, or that it would have prejudiced Ms Bs 
position in relation to her claim. 
Ive carefully considered the comments provided by the surveyor who attended Ms B 
property in November 2019. I agree with her that he reported Ms B and her family had been 
away for a week. But overall I dont think it makes a difference in this case. Theres no way 
of knowing at what point during the 26 days Ms B and her family were away that the power 
surge happened. 
Key comments by the surveyor say the following:
We inspected the timber pool house and could see that the walls and ceiling were 
covered with mould spores and mould growth form to the majority of the surfaces.
There is also mould growth present on contents etc.
We feel due to the scale of the severity of the mould and fungi growth to the majority 
of the walls and ceiling at high and low levels that this would need a fair amount of 
time to grow and spread so far than just a week.Mould can start in 24 - 48 hours, then spores can start and spread around 12 days 
time depending on environment and visible mould appears in around 21 days.
Due to the amount of mould visibly present we possibly suggest that the environment 
has been like it a lot longer with no ventilation working or possible previous mould 
issues treated.
Due to the stained panelling on the walls and ceiling and visible mould coming 
through joints it is highly likely that there is further mould form growth behind wall and 
ceiling panelling.
Due to the scale of mould growth present we would decline the claim due to the lack 
of maintenance and ventilation over a longer period of time.
Based on the surveyors opinion, Fairmead declined Ms Bs claim under the Accidental 
Damage section of the policy. In its letter dated 25 November 2019 it listed the exclusion it 
was relying on which says:
Accidental Damage  what is not covered  loss or damage caused by frost, wear 
and tear, infestation, corrosion, damp, mould, fungus, wet and/or dry rot, vermin, 
moths, atmospheric conditions or any gradually operating cause
As the surveyors view was that the mould had been growing for some time, Fairmead said 
the damage wouldnt be covered. Ms B provided Fairmead with proof of maintenance checks 
that had been carried out to the pool and outbuilding in the months before the event. And 
she obtained an independent estimate dated 28 November 2019 and an independent report 
dated 14 December 2019 which she also provided to Fairmead to support her claim. 
However, on reading the additional information provided, I dont think theres enough to 
show that her claim was valid. The independent contractors acknowledged evidence of 
mould. So I dont think there was sufficient evidence to persuade Fairmead that Ms Bs claim 
should be met. 
Ms B says her preferred contractor carried out meter readings which didnt evidence long 
term or gradual damage. However, Fairmead said that due to the time that had passed from 
the event to the preferred contractors visit, its moisture readings would have no bearing. 
Based on all of the information available to Fairmead, I think its decision to reject Ms Bs 
claim was fair and in line with the policy as there isnt enough evidence to show the damage 
was caused by an insured peril. The information available shows that the damage was 
caused by mould, which isnt covered.
Ms Bs request for information from Fairmead
In November 2019 Ms B asked Fairmead to provide details of the surveyors qualifications 
and a copy of his report. She was unhappy that the details of the surveyor and his 
qualifications wasnt made known to her. I can see that the surveyor business replied to Ms 
B in November 2019 and explained that the surveyors details wouldnt be provided. They 
said his remit was to provide an independent report to Fairmead. But they said any decision 
about whether the claim should be met was made by Fairmead and Ms Bs complaint about 
that should be directed to them. 
I think the reply the surveyor business gave Ms B was reasonable.
Ms B also asked Fairmead for a recording of a call she had with an agent. Ms B said she 
knowingly provided an incorrect date of birth which the agent accepted. Ms B believes 
Fairmead was harvesting her data.
In November 2019 and January 2020 Fairmead said it wouldnt deal with Ms Bs request until she completed a form and provided two pieces of identification, which Ms B didnt want 
to do. Ms B thought Fairmeads request was unreasonable. Fairmead said the reason for its 
request was due to the fact that Ms B knowingly gave an incorrect date of birth and so it 
needed to be satisfied that it was providing information to the correct person. 
However, Ms B has provided a copy of a reply she received from Fairmead in November 
2020. Fairmead said it was content to provide Ms B with the call recording and listed the 
qualifications of the surveyor, without anything further from Ms B. Our investigator provided 
Ms B with an extract of the wording provided by the surveyor. 
However, I think Fairmead could have provided a copy of a redacted surveyors view in 
November 2019 so that she could reasonably consider and understand his findings. And as 
Fairmead has provided Ms B with the requested call recording and the qualifications of the 
surveyor, I think this is information it could have provided in November 2019. 
Its not for us to decide if Fairmead has complied with data protection regulations. Ms B may 
wish to contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if shes unhappy with the 
information she was asked for to identify herself in the key call with Fairmead. But we can 
consider if its lack of service has caused distress and inconvenience. I cant see what 
changed in the time that passed to justify Fairmeads original decision to ask for additional 
identification documents  and then decide a year later that they were no longer needed. So 
I think Fairmead caused unnecessary delay and upset in failing to deal with Ms Bs request 
until November 2020. For its poor handling of Ms Bs request, I think it should pay Ms B 
compensation of £200. 
Number of parties involved in Ms Bs claim
I understand Ms B is unhappy with the number of parties involved in the claim. It isnt 
unusual for an insurer to give delegated authority to another business to manage claims on 
their behalf. Under the Data Protection section of Ms Bs policy Fairmead says it may 
disclose personal details to third parties including loss adjusters who perform services on 
their behalf. I can however understand some of Ms Bs frustration when trying to obtain the 
information she asked for in November 2019, which Ive addressed above. 
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold part of this complaint. I think Fairmeads 
decision to reject the claim was reasonable. But I think it caused undue delay and distress in 
failing to reply to Ms Bs request for information for a year. I will consider any new 
representations each party may wish to make. 
I provisionally decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and asked Fairmead to pay Ms B 
£200 compensation for its poor service. 
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision. 
Ms B didnt agree. In summary she says the building was cleaned of mould and this wouldnt 
have been possible if it had been a long standing issue. She said she offered to provide 
photos to us after the mould had been cleaned, but we said they werent necessary. 
Ms B doesnt think its fair that Ive said the independent reports confirmed mould. This was 
obvious as this was why she asked them to attend. The purpose of their reports was to 
estimate the costs to rectify the damage and take dampness readings. 
As Ms B didnt agree, the case has been passed back to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains along the same lines as my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Ms Bs policy with Fairmead says that it will provide cover for accidental damage  but it 
clearly says it excludes cover for loss or damage caused by mould. Ms B says photos she 
offered to send us show the building after the mould was cleaned away. She says these 
show that the mould couldnt have been long standing as it wouldnt have been possible to 
remove it this way. 
I understand Ms Bs strength of feeling about discussions she had with the broker about how 
long the mould might have taken to grow. But as I explained in my provisional decision, this 
isnt something I can consider here. So I dont think its necessary for us to see photos of the 
building after the mould was removed, in order to prove whether it was a long standing issue 
 as the issue is whether damage was caused by mould  which was excluded under the 
policy.
When a customer disagrees with the findings of an insurer, we look at any information 
provided of equal weight which would contradict those findings - and whether that shows the 
insurers decision was unreasonable. 
In this case, there isnt sufficient evidence to show that Fairmeads decision to reject the 
claim was unreasonable. Theres no dispute that mould was evident  and cover for damage 
caused by mould isnt covered under Ms Bs policy. 
Ms B has offered to provide a recording of the call relating to her ICO complaint. This isnt 
necessary in relation to the complaints we have been able to investigate. It might be 
something Ms B chooses to send to the ICO.
I understand how disappointed Ms B will be with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think Fairmeads decision to reject the claim was fair and in line with the policy 
terms.
I think Fairmeads service was poor in its handling of Ms Bs request for information, as my 
provisional decision set out. Ms B hasnt commented on my recommended award  and as 
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision, my suggested remedy remains the same and is 
set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&G to pay Ms B £200 compensation for its 
poor service. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&G must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Ms B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman