DRN-3832762
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Santander UK Plc incorrectly reversed a direct debit credit 
made under the Direct Debit Indemnity (DDI) guarantee.
What happened
In July 2022, Mrs W and Mr W made a request under the DDI guarantee for Santander to 
return a payment made by direct debit to a utility company called company A.
Santander followed this instruction. They credited Mrs W and Mr Ws account and requested 
a refund from company A. However, Santander wrote to Mrs W and Mr W in August 2022 to 
tell them that when they requested a refund from company A, they were shown evidence, in 
the form of a bill for the direct debit amount, which meant they werent entitled to the money. 
And they said, because of this, they were reversing the credit.
Mrs W and Mr W complained to Santander as they took the money back on the word of the 
Company A without any review or consultation. 
Santander said they hadnt made a mistake and explained the DDI guarantee was for errors 
and not disputes. As Santander were slow to respond to Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint, they 
apologised and paid them £50 compensation.
Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree and complained to our service. However, our investigator 
didnt uphold their complaint for the same reason.
As Mrs W and Mr W remain dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered Mrs W and Mr Ws reason for requesting a return of the direct debit 
payment made to Company A and whether this was due to a dispute or an error. This is 
because the following extract from the DDI guidance illustrates that the guarantee is only 
intended to offer protection for direct debit administrative issues such as incorrect dates or 
wrong amounts:
It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing 
organisation.
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your 
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount 
paid from your bank or building society.
From reviewing the file, I found it clear that Mrs W and Mr W are in dispute with Company A 
and the following confirms this and explains why Mrs W and Mr W wanted the payment 
back:
I have an active complaint from 16/07/22 that they (Company A) are yet to respond
I have no confidence that any real action will take place unless and until they 
(Company A) are pressured to do so 
However, as mentioned-above the DDI guarantee is not a mechanism for disputes, so 
although I understand Mrs W and Mr Ws frustration here, I found the following statement 
from Santander to be both correct and helpful:
If it transpires an error has not been made, you may be required to pay back the 
amount refunded either to the organisation or Santander. The organisation that 
collected the DD may also take action to recover the funds this could lead to 
cancellation of service or legal action.
Regarding Santanders action to reverse the direct debit, they did so because Company As 
response to their refund request was to present Mrs W and Mr Ws bill for the amount in 
dispute. So, as the DDI guarantee says:
If you receive a refund you are not entitled to, you must pay it back when the 
organisation asks you to
I think it was reasonable of Santander to consider the request was due to a dispute rather 
than an administrative issue and reverse the credit they made under the DDI guarantee. So, 
I dont think it wouldve been appropriate, fair or reasonable to expect Santander to consult, 
review or have any involvement in Mrs W and Mr Ws dispute with Company A.  
Also, as the DDI guarantee clearly doesnt apply here and Mrs W and Mr W have a direct 
debit agreement in place with Company A, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to have 
expected Santander to have given any notice or warning before reversing the direct debit.
Also, I cant see that Santanders action was because they colluded with Company A or 
discriminated against Mrs W and Mr W. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs W and Mr W will be disappointed, considering all the above, I 
cant see that Santander have done anything wrong here and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman