DRN-4150871
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) voided her home 
insurance policy and declined to pay a claim.
What happened
Miss E contacted RSA to make a claim following a burglary at her home. RSA investigated 
the claim and accepted that a burglary had taken place. However, it thought Miss E had 
exaggerated her claim. So, it voided the policy and declined to pay the claim.
When Miss E complained, RSA maintained its decision to void the policy and decline the 
claim. It said that Miss Es loss list had grown over time. It had also inspected items that had 
been reported as malicious damage and identified that any damage was the result of general 
wear and tear or normal daily use, which wasnt consistent with the reported circumstances. 
So, it said it had evidenced that Miss E had exaggerated her loss, which was a breach of the 
fraud conditions. So, it had voided the policy.
So, Miss E complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
RSA had investigated the claim and it was reasonable for it to conclude that Miss E had 
exaggerated her claim.
As Miss E didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy said that where a policyholder made a false, fraudulent or exaggerated claim, 
RSA would refuse to pay the claim and would also decide whether to terminate the policy.
RSA investigated Miss Es claim. It said that when the police visited Miss Es home she had 
reported the loss of five items, along with some cash. It said no items were reported to the 
police as vandalised. When RSAs loss adjuster visited, RSA said Miss E reported that 23 
items had been stolen and seven items had been damaged. About two months later, Miss E 
provided an updated list of 28 stolen items and 21 damaged items, although I note that in the 
letter RSA sent to Miss E that in one place it said 23 items had been damaged and in 
another place that it was 21 items. RSAs letter also said Miss E had said 31 items had been 
stolen. However, it has since confirmed to this service that it was 28 items.
RSA arranged for a supplier to inspect some of the damaged items. It then voided the policy 
because all evidence from the suppliers state the alleged malicious damage is wear and 
tear and not consistent with the reported circumstances. As such this can be evidenced that 
you have exaggerated your loss and have therefore misrepresented your claim. So, Ive 
looked at this to see if it was reasonable for RSA to reach a fraud finding on this basis.
RSA sent Miss E a letter to explain its concerns. It said: 
The loss adjuster herself has raised concerns upon inspection of the 7 items where you are 
alleging malicious damage has occurred.
It was suggested that the only damage to the sofa and gaming chairs were footprints. 
However this damage would not be deemed beyond economical repair and could be 
restored with general cleaning.
All other items observed by the loss adjuster were labelled as not consistent with the event 
and would be deemed as normal wear and tear, with the exception of the gaming table.
In my view, the concerns about these items werent clearly explained to Miss E and I think it 
is difficult to understand exactly what is being alleged. However, my reading of this is that 
RSA was saying that three of the items discussed with the loss adjuster were assessed likely 
to be the result of malicious damage at that time, although two of those items could be 
restored through cleaning rather than needing to be replaced.
Having read the loss adjusters report, there also seemed to be nine damaged items listed in 
the report and discussed with the loss adjuster, not seven as RSA later stated. These were 
the sofa, gaming chair and gaming table, which were considered potentially to have been 
maliciously damaged. Although I note that the chair in the report seems to be an armchair 
and Im not clear if this was the gaming chair later referred to or a tenth item reported to the 
loss adjuster. There were then six further items listed in the report. These were the fridge, 
freezer, grill, microwave, coffee table and a blind. 
For the coffee table, there is a photo labelled Scratch to table. Im unclear what it is a photo 
of, as it mainly appears to be a photo of a ceiling and light fitting. So, I currently think it is 
difficult to conclude there was a reliable assessment of the coffee table. There is also a 
photo of a blind and it is labelled Blind on back door damaged. While I was looking at this 
complaint, I asked RSA to clarify which items had been reported and when. For the blind, 
RSA said the blind hadnt been reported while the loss adjuster was on site. However, this 
appears to be inconsistent with the loss adjusters report.
For the fridge and freezer, the loss adjusters report said: Miss E also advised that they 
had damaged the back of the fridge and freezer upon inspection this was the normal bumps 
of the back of the fridge and the freezer. Looking at the photos of these items in the report, 
these showed the front view of the fridge or freezer. Ive also read an inspection report, 
which appears to be of either the fridge or freezer, although I dont think it is clear from the 
report which it was. This said the engineer wasnt able to confirm the cause of damage but 
that it didnt affect the functionality and that, given the damage was minor, it was more 
consistent with wear and tear than a burglary. Based on what Ive currently seen, I dont 
think this in itself showed the claim for these items was fraud. 
Ive also looked at the concerns about the grill and the microwave. Following the loss 
adjusters visit, a specialist company visited to inspect these items to check any damage and 
the likely cause. For the grill, the letter explaining RSAs concerns said:
The engineer reports that upon inspection this appliance is working ok with no clear signs of 
damage from the incident reported. There are some minor marks/ scratches and some burnt 
remnants inside the oven but in the engineers opinion this is more consistent with normal 
use. They could see no evidence of the oven being deliberately set alight and there does not 
appear to be any permanent damage.
Ive read the engineers reports for these items. On the first page, in the section headed 
Cause of Damage it described the fault as All items are working, but are dented and 
smashed with hammer. This appears to be the instruction/ description to the engineer for the inspection, although that isnt entirely clear. In the full report section for the grill, it 
described the damage found and referred to minor marks and scratches and burnt remnants 
being more consistent with normal use and then said the engineer cannot rule out the 
possibility that paint was set alight inside but they could see no evidence of this and there 
does not appear to be any permanent damage. It isnt clear why the engineer considered 
the possibility of paint being set alight. If the first page of the report described the damage 
claimed for, it didnt seem to refer to paint being set alight or any form of fire. 
I also looked at the photos within the reports. I dont think it is clear who took the photos and 
whether they were all taken by the engineer or if some of them were taken by the loss 
adjuster. In the report for the grill, one of the photos also seemed to show a fairly close-up 
photo of a scratch. However, that doesnt appear to be a photo of the grill and instead seems 
to be a photo of the top of the fridge or the freezer. So, Im not currently persuaded these 
reports are a clear and reliable assessment of the microwave or grill in order to make a fraud 
finding.
RSA was also concerned about the claim for the damage to the flooring. So, it arranged for a 
flooring specialist to assess the floor. When RSA wrote to Miss E with its concerns about the 
claim it said its specialist had visited and had been advised of wax on the laminate 
flooring and paint stains on the landing/stairs carpet. The inspector raised concerns in 
relation to both areas of damage, and deemed the damage as not consistent with the 
reported circumstances.
Whilst the wax on the laminate flooring has now been removed, he questioned why
a single area of wax to the flooring would have been carried out by the burglars?
Not only is wax an usual substance to use for malicious damage, why aren't there
more affected areas?
Ive looked at the flooring companys assessment. It said:
Our inspector has attended to assess the damaged flooring. He too has raised concerns in 
regards to the reported damage and the validity of this.
The policyholder was looking to claim for wax on the laminate. However, our inspector has 
removed the wax from this area when he attended.
The report then commented on the paint on the carpet and questioned why a burglar would 
have put random patches of paint on the carpet. But the report didnt say anything further 
about the wax, such as questioning why only a single area was affected. All it said was that 
the inspector had removed the wax. The letter also said the flooring company had 
questioned where the paint had come from, but I didnt see this in the report provided to this 
service. So, based on what Ive currently seen, I think the letter seemed to overstate the 
findings of the flooring company when RSA put its concerns to Miss E.
Im also mindful that the volume of issues identified during a claim could be interpreted as 
fraud, even if individual issues might not be enough evidence on their own. I can understand 
that RSA was concerned by the addition of some of the damaged items and by what some of 
the assessments showed. However, I think the assessment of some of the items and how 
the allegations were put to Miss E was at times unclear and seemingly inaccurate. So, I dont 
currently think RSA fairly or clearly put its concerns to Miss E or that it has shown it drew a 
fair conclusion based on an accurate assessment of the evidence it considered.
From what Ive seen, RSA didnt properly establish how many items were being claimed for 
as damaged or stolen. Although RSA arranged for some of the damaged items to be assessed, I dont think it has currently shown that the conclusions it reached on some of the 
items was based on an accurate reading and interpretation of the report findings.
As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint. I also intend to say that RSA should 
remove the fraud finding from internal and external databases and reinstate the policy. RSA 
should continue to assess the claim and make a settlement for it. For avoidance of doubt, 
that doesnt mean RSA needs to settle every item claimed for. It can still assess the claim 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. However, in my view, RSA has already had 
sufficient opportunity to make an accurate assessment of whether fraud took place, but it 
didnt do so. It therefore cant now make a new fraud finding about this claim.
I also think the way the claim and the fraud allegation was handled by RSA will have caused 
Miss E distress and inconvenience. So, I currently intend to say RSA should pay Miss E 
£200 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 June 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
RSA provided comments about the investigation and some documents. In summary:
It confirmed the date of the incident and what happened at the two police visits.
It said that when the loss adjuster visited, the loss list had grown from six items to 23 and 
then when it carried out an interview, it had grown to 31 items.
It said Miss E only reported seven items as damaged, but this then doubled by the time it 
interviewed Miss E and that it found it inconceivable that these items wouldnt have been 
noticed within the 39-day period it covered.
The loss adjuster reported that the items allegedly damaged were just normal wear and 
tear with the exception being the gaming table.
The reports from the flooring and electrical supplier supported that the damage wasnt 
consistent with malicious damage from the theft. The appliances were confirmed as wear 
and tear from daily use. It questioned what the point of using these suppliers was if their 
reports were to be disregarded.
It said it couldnt comment on the engineers comments, but the report did state the 
damage is inconsistent and so if at any point it needed to consider these elements, Miss 
E should be asked to prove they were without damage in the first instance.
While it wasnt disputing Miss Es home was broken into, there was clear evidence of 
exaggeration. Miss E was just using the break-in as an excuse to replace items that were 
damaged most likely as a result of the redecorating she was carrying out.
It was highly unusual for thieves to waste time damaging items, especially when 
someone was in the property, as they would be conscious of being caught.
It said Miss E openly admitted the house was in disarray from decorating and it could be 
argued that any damage could have occurred during the moving of furniture or 
decorating.
Damage to the kitchen was completely unrealistic, as supported by the reports.
Miss Es account wasnt consistent as she said she was watching TV in her bedroom but 
also said she was decorating.
It believed the right decision was made, as Miss E failed to address the concerns raised 
completely and the amount of time it took Miss E to determine what had been stolen or 
damaged was unrealistic. It accepted that someone might not initially know what had 
been stolen. But it questioned why following the visit of a scene of crime officer that 
someone wouldnt take the time to see exactly what had been stolen and damaged.
Miss E said she was happy with the decision. She said she could forward photos of the 
damage that had still not been declared, in particular the sofa and chairs. General cleaning hadnt been able to repair the damage, which showed the damage to these items was 
permanent. This was the case with other items, which showed the reports that the damage 
wasnt significant or could easily be fixed was wrong. Miss E didnt want RSA to 
underestimate the extent of the damage again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that, I considered the comments from both parties and looked again at the wider 
evidence.
When I made my provisional decision, I looked carefully at what had happened. I was aware 
of when visits took place and the timescales involved. I note that RSA has again said 31 
items were later reported as stolen. This is despite me querying this with RSA previously, it 
checking its records and it confirming that it was 28 items. This again highlights to me the 
inconsistency and lack of accuracy in parts of RSAs investigation. I also remain of the view 
that some of the allegations put to Miss E were unclear and written in such a way that made 
it difficult to know what she needed to respond to, including for the damage to the sofa and 
gaming chair. In my view, RSA also hasnt adequately addressed issues such as the number 
of items listed in the loss adjusters report or the photo that was meant to be evidence of the 
condition of a coffee table but seemed to be a photo of the ceiling.
I didnt disregard the evidence of the engineers who inspected the appliances and the 
carpets. I openly discussed my views on those reports in my provisional decision, so that 
RSA had the opportunity to respond to the issues I had identified. This included issues such 
as RSA seemingly attributing comments and findings to the person that inspected the 
flooring, but this information not being in their report. In response to my provisional decision, 
RSA provided the same report I had previously seen about the wax and paint on the floor. 
This still didnt show that the person had questioned why a single area of wax on the floor 
would have been carried out by the burglars or include the additional comments about the 
paint, despite RSA telling Miss E that this was what the person had said. I remain of the view 
that RSA overstated the findings of the flooring company when it put its concerns to Miss E.
RSA will also be aware that before I made my provisional decision I raised with it that it is 
fairly common in insurance claims for a policyholder to think that something was the result of 
an insured event but for the insurer to decide it was wear and tear. However, this didnt 
mean that an insurer immediately moved to the position of deciding the claim was 
exaggerated and making a fraud finding, as seemed to happen here. I considered RSAs 
response to this before making my provisional decision. I also didnt say one way or the 
other whether I thought it was reasonable for the engineers to decide the damage was wear 
and tear and I said in my provisional decision that although I intended to require RSA to 
assess the claim and make a settlement, I wasnt requiring it to settle every item claimed for. 
It could still assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Im 
aware Miss E offered to provide further photos. But, in my view, I dont need to see them, as 
Im not deciding whether RSA should deal with those items under the claim.
I also note that RSA has suggested some other reasons why Miss Es claim was 
inconsistent with the circumstances. I havent seen anything that shows me these were part 
of RSAs case at the time of its investigation. I have also looked again at the allegations RSA 
put to Miss E for response and a number of these points werent raised at the time. So, I 
dont think it is fair for them now to be raised. I remain of the view that RSA has already had 
sufficient opportunity to make an accurate assessment of whether fraud took place and to put its concerns to Miss E, but it didnt do so. As a result, it therefore cant now make a new 
fraud finding about this claim.
Having considered the evidence again, I still dont think RSA fairly or clearly put its concerns 
to Miss E or that it has shown it drew a fair conclusion based on an accurate assessment of 
the evidence it considered. I also remain of the view that RSA should pay £200 
compensation because of the impact on Miss E as a result of how RSA dealt with the claim 
and the fraud allegations.
Putting things right
RSA should remove all references to fraud from internal and external cases for this claim 
and reinstate the policy. It should continue to consider the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, but it cannot now make a new fraud finding. It should also pay Miss 
E £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Remove all references to a fraud finding for this claim from internal and external 
databases.
Reinstate the policy.
Continue to consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
and to make settlement for any items are assessed to be covered by the claim. It cannot 
now make a new fraud finding on this claim.
Pay Miss E £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman