DRN-4418533
The complaint
Mr A says U K Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unreasonably by refusing to reissue a cheque 
15 years after the original one was sent to him.
What happened
UKI sent a cheque for £981 to Mr A in 2008. He wasnt aware it had arrived, as another 
member of the household put it in a drawer without telling him, and it was soon covered by 
other items. Mr A only found the envelope containing the cheque and a covering letter from 
UKI in August 2020. At that point, one of UKIs advisors said the matter couldnt be resolved 
then (due to lockdown restrictions) but that UKI should be able to reissue the cheque in due 
course when its records could be reviewed.  
As Mr A heard nothing further, he called UKI again in February 2023. UKI said it only held 
records for the past seven years, as all previous ones had been removed due to data 
protection requirements. In response to Mr As complaint, UKI said there was a time limit for 
cashing cheques and the onus was on Mr A to do so. UKI also said it couldnt be sure 
whether a replacement cheque had been issued at some point after 2008.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. He didnt think UKI had acted 
reasonably. In his opinion, Mr As account was credible, and the possibility of a replacement 
cheque having been issued wasnt a good enough reason not to pay the sum due. UKI then 
queried why Mr A hadnt chased the payment in 2008. It said its legal liability to Mr A had 
expired after six years, and he was asking for payment 15 years later. It said there were no 
extenuating circumstances (such as Mr A being a vulnerable consumer). And it pointed out 
that it hadnt made an error  - but Mr A had, in not cashing the cheque or querying it. 
The investigator said Mr A hadnt cashed the cheque for reasons beyond his control (as he 
didnt know about it) and that had he put it in a drawer himself, that would have been 
different. He thought it more likely than not that only one cheque was ever issued.  As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was then passed to me for review. I issued a provisional 
decision, not upholding the complaint, along the following lines:
UKI could show that it tried to find a way of establishing what had happened prior to 
seven years earlier, but it was unable to do so as all Its records before that date had 
been removed. 
It was reasonable for UKI to say the onus was on Mr A to cash the cheque or to 
query its absence. He must have been expecting the payment and most consumers 
would have chased UKI about it. Mr A hasnt set out any reasons why he wasnt able 
to do that, either at the time or during the next few years.
Theres no evidence that Mr A was trying to obtain a second payment from UKI. But 
its concern that a replacement cheque may have been issued between 2008 and 
2016 (the date from which its records are still in place) is reasonable.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. UKI didnt do so. Mr A said there 
was proof that the original cheque was never cashed. He said that there was a breakdown in 
his home status, plus the death of his mother, around the time in question, so he had more 
to think about than a missing payment. He said £900 was a substantial sum to lose, and that  
originally he was told by UKI that the cheque would be reissued.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr A was facing very difficult personal circumstances around the 
time the cheque was issued. And I appreciate that for some time, the fact that he was due a 
substantial payment from UKI may well have slipped his mind, whilst he dealt with more 
pressing issues. But he didnt query the absence of the cheque at all over the next several 
years. That isnt UKIs fault, and the considerable length of time that elapsed before he 
finally contacted it meant that UKIs records prior to 2016 were no longer available. That 
wasnt UKIs fault either - and all insurers have to rely on their records in situations like this.  
I think its clear from Mr As account that the UKI advisor he spoke to in 2020 said there 
shouldnt be a problem in reissuing the cheque once the relevant records were checked. I 
know Mr As expectations would have been raised by that, but there was no way for the 
advisor to check at the time which records were available. In the absence of records to show 
what happened between 2008 and 2016, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably in deciding 
not to reissue the cheque to Mr A. So although I know he'll be very disappointed with my 
decision, I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
23 November 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman