DRN-3347715
The complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited trading as American 
Express (Amex) unfairly continued to charge him an annual fee for a credit card, that he said 
he could no longer receive the full benefit of as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr R holds a credit card with Amex for which he pays an annual fee of £195. For that fee, he 
receives points, which he can use towards flights and travel, amongst other things. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr Rs work travel substantially decreased, and hes 
not been able to accrue or use his points as he normally would. He complained to Amex that 
he wasnt receiving the full benefit of the card, and asked them to; carry out a full analysis of 
his spend levels and points accrual prior to the pandemic and during it; refund the full 
product fee since the start of the pandemic; pay him compensation to cover the time spent 
calling to deal with the matter and, consider whether the product remains fit for purpose. He 
feels other companies are taking pro-active steps to refund customers and feels Amex 
should do the same. 
Amex responded. They explained that they werent taking steps to reduce or waive 
customers account fees, but they were constantly looking for ways to improve their service 
which had included things like offering bonus points and vouchers to customers at times. But 
Mr R felt this response didnt adequately address his concerns, so he brought his complaint 
to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Rs complaint, and originally recommended Amex refund the 
account fee and pay £50 compensation. But she later said that just the £50 compensation 
was sufficient, as Mr R couldve cancelled the card at any time. But Mr R maintained that he 
wanted the analysis of spend levels completed, a full refund of account fees paid since the 
start of the pandemic, the 2,500 points previously offered to be credited to his account, and 
for Amex to pay him the £50 compensation the investigator awarded. So, as an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wrote to Mr R in June 2022, and set out my findings informally, where I explained that I was 
able to establish that Amex had already credited the 2500 points, was still willing to pay the 
£50 compensation, and had not charged Mr R for the old account beyond the point of the 
downgrade. I explained that I thought this was a fair resolution his complaint, but Mr R still 
remained unhappy. Ive now reviewed all of the evidence again, including Mr Rs response, 
and my position remains unchanged  Ill explain why. 
Mr R said that the reason for taking out this card was primarily to accrue points from his 
business travel, which was limited during the Covid-19 pandemic. And I accept this was the 
reason Mr R took out the card. I also appreciate his argument that the main things the points 
can be spent on are travel related. So, its likely the card wouldnt have been as beneficial to 
him during the Covid-19 pandemic, given the travel restrictions in place around that time. 
But as the investigator has highlighted, travel wasnt the only thing that points could be spent 
on. And Mr R was still able to accrue points on the card as before, although I appreciate 
Covid-19 restrictions may have limited the way in which he might normally do this. He also 
had the option to change the type of card he held with Amex if he thought it was no longer 
providing good value for money, and he wouldnt be charged anything further beyond the 
point of that change. 
Mr R has argued it wasnt made clear that he could change the type of card he had. And he 
said that Amex shouldve made this clear when they spoke to him. But I can see from the 
credit agreement that Mr R was provided with at the point of sale that, on page 7, theres a 
section titled Switching you to a different type of card, which states: 
If a card membership fee applies and you switch to a different type of card covered 
by this agreement then, unless we tell you otherwise, we'll reset the start of the 
membership year to the date the switch happens. We'll refund any card membership 
fee applicable to your previous card on a pro rata basis.
So, Im satisfied it was made sufficiently clear that Mr R could change the type of card he 
had mid-term and if he did so, he wouldnt be charged for any period beyond the date of that 
change. So, for this reason, I dont think it was unfair of Amex to continue to charge Mr R a 
membership fee up until he downgraded his card in June 2021. And they were right to 
charge him up until this point, rather than actioning a pro-rata refund back to the start of the 
pandemic as hes requested.
Mr R has asked Amex to complete an analysis of his spend levels from before and after the 
pandemic, to see whether the card remained suitable for him. But I dont think this is 
necessary  as its for Mr R to determine whether the card remains suitable for him, this is 
not Amexs responsibility. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Amex provided Mr R with a product that hes benefited from 
for a period of time and could cancel at any point. He hasnt been charged for the old card 
beyond the date of the downgrade in June 2021 and Amex also credited the 2,500 points to 
Mr Rs card account in May 2021 as they said they would. Amex also agreed to a fair level of 
compensation by offering Mr R £50 compensation for the drop in service. So, for these 
reasons I wont be instructing Amex to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint, and require American Express Services 
Europe Limited trading as American Express to pay Mr R the £50 compensation theyve 
agreed to.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman