DRN-3438629
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have had a medical insurance policy with Aviva 
for some years. In June 2021, Mr M suffered a collapsed lung and contacted Aviva in 
relation to a claim for a consultation with a respiratory consultant. Aviva accepted the 
claim and provided Mr M with details of providers recognised under Mr and Mrs Ms 
policy. 
Mr M contacted the healthcare providers but there was no immediate availability. He told 
Aviva about that and it made enquiries on Mr Ms behalf. Aviva discovered that the 
consultants were booked up until August 2021 but that there were phone appointments 
available. Mr M didnt wish to have a phone appointment. I understand that Mr M had a 
consultation with a consultant not covered by Aviva.  
Mr M says that when he needed medical care, it wasnt available. He says that Aviva 
took his money under false pretences. Mr and Mrs M wants a refund of premiums.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Aviva had 
treated Mr M unfairly. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ms policy covered eligible 
treatment carried out at certain hospitals or facilities, but that Aviva isnt responsible for 
providing treatment or the availability of consultants. He thought that Aviva acted fairly in 
contacting healthcare providers on Mr Ms behalf and finding out that phone 
consultations were available. The investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Aviva to 
refund premiums. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he was clinically vulnerable during 
the pandemic because of a previous condition and he didnt think it was reasonable to 
wait to see a consultant. Mr M asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows: 
All treatment and diagnostic tests must be carried out by providers (such as hospitals, 
facilities, specialists) recognised by us. If you have treatment with a provider that we do 
not recognise, we will not pay that provider's fees.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think that 
Aviva treated them unfairly. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers eligible treatment by providers recognised by Aviva. At 
the time of Mr Ms claim, Mr and Mrs M had Signature hospital list cover, which 
meant that Aviva recognised certain hospitals. Aviva gave Mr M details of recognised 
providers when it accepted Mr Ms claim. Thats what wed expect it to do.
Aviva doesnt provide healthcare and isnt responsible for the availability or otherwise 
of the providers it recognises. I do appreciate that it was frustrating for Mr M not to be 
able to arrange a face-to-face appointment with a consultant in a reasonable time. No 
doubt, the exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19 were at least partly 
responsible for that. But the providers availability isnt Avivas responsibility. 
I think that Aviva acted fairly in contacting the hospitals on Mr Ms behalf and 
discovering that Mr M could have a phone appointment in the first instance then 
further face-to-face appointments or diagnostics tests, as required. I appreciate that 
Mr M didnt want a phone appointment.  
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy say that the premium must be 
paid for Aviva to provide cover in the policy year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening during the term of the policy. An 
insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during 
that time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
Aviva is entitled to retain the premium here. Theres no term in the contract will 
allows Mr and Mrs M to obtain a refund if theres difficulty or delay in arranging a 
face-to-face appointment with a healthcare provider. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an 
insurer to refund premiums if treatment was delayed or unavailable due to 
circumstances outside of its control. Im satisfied that the difficulties Mr M had in 
arranging the sort of appointment he wanted were outside Avivas control. In all the 
circumstances, there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Aviva to refund       
Mr and Mrs Ms premiums. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman