DRN-3269041
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) didnt do enough to protect 
him when he fell victim to what he believes was an investment scam. 
What happened
In April 2018 Mr Ss accountant told him about an investment opportunity in a new start-up 
company. He made a payment in branch of £70,000 from his Halifax account to secure the 
deal. In 2021 Mr S found out that both his accountant and the start-up company had gone 
into liquidation. He contacted Halifax to say hed been the victim of a scam. It tried to recover 
the payment from the beneficiary bank  but no funds remained.  
Mr S complained to Halifax. It explained that Mr Ss case pre-dated the introduction of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). It said its fraud protection process had been 
followed when Mr S made the £70,000 transaction. And that the payment had been made 
following a discussion with Mr S about its purpose. So, Halifax said it wasnt responsible for 
Mr Ss loss. It was also satisfied it had taken appropriate action to try and recover the funds. 
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman. He felt Halifax shouldve done more checks 
into the beneficiary and the circumstances surrounding the investment when he made the 
transaction, particularly given the amount of money hed transferred. Mr S said hes been left 
in financial difficulty because of the scam and it has had a severe impact on his mental 
health. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said it was likely that Mr S 
had been the victim of a bad investment, rather than a scam. But in any event, he found 
Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said Halifax shouldve 
done more checks into the start-up company when he said hed been advised by a third 
party (his accountant). And that it shouldve asked him more questions about the specifics of 
the investment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as 
our investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr S was hoping for and so this will come as a 
disappointment. Im really sorry to hear he has lost a considerable sum of money and I can 
understand why hed want to do all he can to recover it. Im also sorry to hear that this 
situation has made him unwell and that he is struggling financially. But I need to decide 
whether Halifax can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mr Ss loss. Overall, Ive 
decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
Halifax was required to promptly process payments authorised by Mr S from his account. 
But banks also have obligations to try to prevent fraud. So, its important to establish 
whether the £70,000 payment was made as a result of fraud  our investigator concluded 
this was unlikely to have been the case  and that Mr S had lost his money as a result of a 
bad investment.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly 
making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of 
making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss 
(Fraud Act 2006).
I appreciate Mr S has concerns about the accountants handling of his tax affairs  and I can 
see why both the accountant and the start-up company Mr S invested in going into 
liquidation has aroused his suspicion as to whether this was all indeed an elaborate scam. 
But Mr S has been unable to provide us with any information about the exchanges between 
him and the accountant when the investment was made. Nor does Mr S have any paperwork 
about the investment itself  what he was investing in, what the likely returns were, or how 
long the investment would run for. I can see that the start-up company was registered with 
Companies House at the time the payment was made  but was dissolved in November 
2019. I can also see that Mr S told Halifax his accountant had been introduced to him by a 
friend and was completing his 2018 self-assessment tax returns. 
So, based on what Ive seen, on balance I cant say that this case meets the high legal 
threshold and burden of proof required for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a bad 
investment based on advice from Mr Ss accountant  who hed trusted to manage his 
finances. 
Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, there is 
nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from 
bad bargains or to give them investment advice. 
There are occasions when we do think banks should query payments because of suspicious 
activity that appears unusual or uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such 
potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a banker to pause and ask 
questions of the payer about the transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before 
any loss occurs. But those considerations are predicated on there being evidence of a fraud 
or scam, which is not the case here. A bank does not have to intervene with authorised 
payments, and cannot be held liable for alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or 
scam, or if the payer has regrets or second thoughts after the event. 
I appreciate that Mr S thinks Halifax didnt do enough to protect him given the size of the 
payment and because he said hed been advised to invest the money by a third party (his 
accountant). He thinks Halifaxs high value checklist, which was completed when the 
transaction was made, was a tick box exercise and didnt go far enough. But, given my 
finding above, Im not persuaded there was a fraud or scam to protect Mr S against  and so 
ultimately Halifax had no obligation to get involved in his choice of spending. 
Having said that, when Mr S notified Halifax of his loss it contacted the receiving bank to see 
if any funds remained. Unfortunately, the receiving bank confirmed the funds had gone and so nothing could be returned to Mr S. Given the payment was made three years previously, 
this isnt surprising. Im satisfied Halifax made reasonable efforts to recover the funds Mr S 
lost, and I cant say it needed to do anything else. 
So, overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Halifax responsible for Mr Ss 
loss in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman