DRN-3156045
The complaint
This complaint is about the service Mrs and Mr J received when they tried to arrange a 
re-mortgage on the advice and recommendation of C D Fairfield Capital Limited. They say 
theyve been charged nearly £2,000 and received nothing for it.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr J and CD. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, the circumstances of this dispute are a little unusual, and its 
important that I dont include any information that might result in Mrs and Mr J being 
identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
CDs terms of engagement, which it provided to Mrs and Mr J at the outset, state with a high 
degree of clarity that the fees it charges are non-refundable. Not all brokers operate this 
way, but CD does, and Im satisfied Mrs and Mr J knew that when they engaged its services 
to try and help them find a solution to their financial situation.
I do understand how strongly Mrs and Mr J feel that they paid the money for nothing, but 
taking a step back and looking at things dispassionately (as I must do) I dont find that to be 
a fair summation. I say that because Im persuaded, from reading all of the evidence both 
parties have provided, that CD put a great deal of time and effort into trying to find a solution 
for Mrs and Mrs J; that effort and the time spent, justify the fees it charged them.
That a workable solution wasnt found isnt because of any particular failing or shortcoming 
on CDs part; rather, its more a reflection of the specifics of Mrs and Mr Js circumstances 
making it extremely difficult to find a willing lender, and the underlying truth that in such 
situations, a successful outcome can never be guaranteed.
I note Mrs and Mr J eventually succeeded in finding an equity release mortgage through 
another broker; and Im pleased they were able to do that. They understandably ask why CD 
could not have suggested they try equity release; CDs contact records show that it did just 
that, but Mrs and Mr J didnt take them up on the suggestion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman