DRN-3675696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to not 
allow them to cash in their annuities in lieu of a lump sum payment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W wrote to Aviva outlining details of a complaint. They:
said they never set up the pension accounts, it was a waste of money, they never asked 
for annuities and they werent asked their opinion on the pension
also said theyd never seen the policy
were concerned that when they bought the annuities they might not have been the best 
ones available at the time
therefore asked Aviva to investigate how it arrived at the offer it did and if any 
shortcomings were found they asked Aviva to pay compensation (including income they 
would have received since buying the policy) and by arranging future annuity payments 
to reflect the correct position they should have been in.
Aviva investigated the matter and wrote to Mr and Mrs W with its final response. It provided 
them with various documents which, in essence, it felt showed they were aware of the 
annuities.
Mr and Mrs W still felt mistakes had been made and they felt Aviva should rectify the 
mistakes by letting them have a lump sum payment as the amount they received each 
month from their annuities was so small. Aviva said its original decision remained and there 
was no framework in place whereby it had to agree to a request to cash in an annuity. It felt 
this didnt represent a good outcome for consumers and it wasnt therefore something it 
offered.
Mr and Mrs W again asked Aviva to allow them to cash in the annuities for a lump sum. They 
then formally complained to Aviva about it not allowing them to cash in the annuities. They 
said the Government says that when the annuity payment is so small they should be able to 
have a lump sum payment instead, and that other insurers did this. They felt by not allowing 
them to cash in the annuities Aviva wasnt acting in their best interests. Aviva said it couldnt 
add anything to what it had said previously so it wasnt going to review the matter further.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to us. They said theyd been trying to get the 
annuities paid as a lump sum but Aviva wouldnt allow it. To resolve the matter they wanted 
to cancel the annuities and get a lump sum payment instead.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint fell 
within our jurisdiction and why I thought it shouldnt be upheld. Ive outlined the main points 
from my provisional decision below, and they form part of my final decision.
Our jurisdiction
Aviva didnt think we could consider the complaint as it felt Mr and Mrs W brought it to us 
too late. I concluded that we could consider it as Mr and Mrs W had referred it to us 
within the relevant timescales. In summary:
oI felt the complaint about Aviva refusing to allow Mr and Mrs W to cash in their 
annuities was a different complaint to the one they originally made about the 
annuities being set up. And as Aviva had never issued a final response to the 
new complaint, the six month time period for Mr and Mrs W to refer a complaint to 
us never started.
oEven if I felt the new complaint was simply an extension of the original one, 
while this would mean Mr and Mrs W referred the complaint to us too late (ie after 
the six month time limit) I felt the failure to comply with the time was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances  flood damage to their home which required them to 
move out and then back in when the damage hadnt been fully repaired.
The complaint
An annuity is a financial product a consumer buys with a sum of money (usually built up 
over a period of time through pension contributions) in return for a regular and 
guaranteed income in retirement. In its simplest form, a consumer will have a lump sum 
of x and in return for that a pension provider will agree to pay the consumer y per 
month or year until they die. Once an annuity has been set up, it generally cant be 
changed. So a consumer is locked into it for life.
There is no contractual or other automatic right for a consumer to cash in an annuity for 
a lump sum payment in lieu of the future income they otherwise would receive in 
retirement. And despite what Mr and Mrs W have argued there is no Government or 
other regulatory directive in this respect. Ultimately, its a commercial decision for each 
annuity provider whether to offer consumers the opportunity to cash in their annuity.
In this case, Aviva made a decision to not offer the option of cashing in their annuity to 
any of its customers as it believes its not in their best interests. I thought that was a 
legitimate decision for Aviva to make. Accordingly, I concluded that Aviva hadnt treated 
Mr and Mrs W unfairly by refusing to allow the annuities to be cashed in.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs W said the annuity amounts they receive (£5.59 and £6.69 per week) are so 
small and is being deducted from the State Pension they receive and receiving a lump sum 
payment would increase the State Pension they receive. They feel it must cost Aviva more to 
administer the ongoing annuities, and paying a lump sum now would get them off Avivas 
books.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Aviva hasnt disputed our jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint I dont have 
anything further to add on this point.In respect of Mr and Mrs Ws comments in response to my provisional decision, I accept it 
might be better for them to now receive a lump sum payment rather than regular annuity 
payments going forward. I also note their points about the amounts being paid and the 
administration costs to Aviva.
However, ultimately there is no contractual or other right for Mr and Mrs W to be able to cash 
in their annuities  in essence, theyre stuck with what they bought. It remains a commercial 
decision for Aviva as to whether to offer Mr and Mrs W (or any other customers) the ability to 
cash in the annuities in lieu of ongoing payments. And as I said in my provisional decision, 
Aviva has decided  legitimately  to not offer customers the option of cashing in their 
annuities.
Accordingly, I remain of the opinion that Aviva hasnt treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly by 
refusing to allow their annuities to be cashed in.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman