DRN-4061854
The complaint
Ms B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made on her home insurance policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
Ms B holds a home insurance policy with Lloyds. She made a claim for damage she says 
was caused by a storm.
Lloyds declined her claim. It said the damage was most likely not caused by any storm. 
Instead it thought the damage was a result of wear and tear and poor maintenance of Ms Bs 
roof.
Ms B didnt agree, so, she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He thought there was a storm, and the 
damage was consistent with that caused by one. And he thought the main cause of the 
damage was the storm itself.
Lloyds disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision outlining why I didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. 
It said:
Ms B is covered for storm damage, but shes not covered for damaged caused by 
wear or needing maintenance. To be covered, our service takes the approach that 
three points need to be satisfied. Those points are:
oWere there storm conditions (as defined in the policy) at the time of the 
claim?
oIs the damage being claimed for consistent with damage caused by a storm?
oIs the storm the main cause of the damage? (Or are other factors such as 
wear and poor maintenance the more likely cause?)
Its debatable when exactly the damage was caused here. Going of the original claim 
date Lloyds said there was no evidence of storm like conditions. But its widely 
accepted that the week before that there were winds of up to 85km an hour. On the 
whole it seems accepted there were storm conditions which could have caused this 
damage.
Lloyds says the damage being claimed for isnt consistent with damage caused by a 
storm, and it thinks maintenance and wear are the more likely cause of the damage. 
Its provided a report detailing why it thinks this is the case. And Im persuaded more 
by that report than I am by any evidence Ms B has provided.
Therefore, without further evidence, Im minded to think that Lloyds decision to 
decline this claim on the basis that the damage was more likely as a result of 
maintenance and wear (something not covered by the policy) than a storm 
(something covered by the policy) is a fair and reasonable decision.
Lloyds didnt respond. Ms B did. In summary, she thought the decision was unfair. She said 
she was initially offered £2,000 to fix the damage before the property was inspected. She 
thinks the damage is storm related and doesnt think it fair to take the age and the wear on 
the property into consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint. I understand shell not be happy with 
this decision.
I can understand why Ms B is unhappy with being offered £2,000 to fix the damage to have 
this offer taken away following the inspection of her property. But Ive considered whether or 
not it was fair Lloyds declined her claim. Ive decided that decision was fair.  So, Lloyds dont 
need to pay out on a claim not covered by the policy.
I understand too shes unhappy with the surveyors visit and their findings. But as stated in 
my provisional decision, Im more persuaded by that report than I am any evidence Ms B has 
provided.
The wear on the property is integral to determining whether the damage was caused by the 
storm, or whether the storm highlighted damage that was previously there due to wear. As 
mentioned in my provisional decision, storm damage is covered by the policy, damage 
caused by wear and tear isnt.
I understand Ms B disagrees with the surveyors findings but they can reasonably be 
considered an expert in their field and I think it reasonable that Lloyds relied on their opinion 
when deciding whether or not to settle this claim.
Overall, for the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Lloyds 
decline of this claim is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman