DRN-3390912
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund over £6,000 that he 
lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I do not intend to repeat 
everything again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In between 17 June 2020 and 2 July 2020, Mr D authorised around 38 payments to 
Skrill and MoonPay using his Monzo debit card (via Apple Pay) in order to purchase 
cryptocurrency, which was subsequently transferred onto the scammer from these 
crypto platforms. The payments were typically small, with most ranging between 
£100 to £300, although there were some as low as £5. The highest payment he 
made in this period was for just over £1,000.
With this in mind, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent 
Mr D from falling victim to the scam. as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
However, as Ive already outlined above, the payments Mr D made to the crypto 
platforms were for relatively small amounts, such that they would not have appeared 
particularly unusual in comparison with his normal spending history. I appreciate 
there were occasions where several payments were made on the same day to 
Moonpay, which can sometimes indicate a risk of fraud. But by this point, Mr D had 
already established this legitimate company as an existing payee, whom he had 
made several payments to before. And given the amounts he paid on the same day 
were not unusually large, I dont think Monzo can fairly be held liable for Mr Ds loss 
here, as Im not persuaded there was any obligation on them to intervene or prevent 
the payments in these circumstances.
Ive also considered whether Monzo could have done more to try and recover Mr Ds 
money via a chargeback claim. But a chargeback in this instance would have most 
likely failed, as the transactions Mr D used his Monzo card for were to pay Skrill and 
Moonpay (i.e. legitimate merchants) for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which he 
duly received. The loss he has complained about occurred from these crypto 
platforms when he paid the cryptocurrency to the fraudulent broker. So, he could not 
claim that he did not receive the goods or services paid for from his Monzo account; 
that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. Therefore, Im satisfied Monzo did not 
act unreasonably by failing to raise a chargeback claim for Mr D in such 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, and I am sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. But for the reasons stated above, I do not consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold Monzo liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman