DRN-4080800
The complaint
 Mr T complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined his 
motor warranty claim. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr T made a claim against his Red Sands motor warranty. His vehicles 
engine had suffered significant engine damage following piston failure. Following an 
inspection by its engineer, Red Sands declined the claim. It said the failure of the piston 
didnt fit the policys definition of mechanical breakdown (included below), so the claim 
wasnt payable. 
Mr T provided Red Sands with a report from his own engineer. It stated the breakdown to be 
sudden and unforeseen mechanical failure. Red Sands considered it, but felt the evidence 
supported a long-term wear and tear issue. So it continued to decline the claim. Mr T wasnt 
satisfied so came to this service. Hes asked that Red Sands pay the claim up the policy limit 
of £5,000.
Our investigator felt damage to the piston was sudden and unforeseen. So she said Red 
Sands had declined the claim unfairly. She recommended it reimburse Mr T costs he had 
incurred as a result  plus £300 compensation. He accepted the outcome. As Red Sands 
didnt, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence from Mr T and Red Sands. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or 
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Mr Ts policy covers all mechanical and electrical parts (including labour to fit them) of his 
car against mechanical breakdown. The policy terms explain Mechanical Breakdown means 
the failure of a mechanical or electrical component, causing a sudden stoppage of its 
function, for a reason other than wear and tear, deterioration or negligence. Damage caused 
by the effects of overheating or abuse is not regarded as a mechanical breakdown under the 
terms of the Policy. 

Red Sands referred to a lack of sudden and unforeseen mechanical failure  but thats not 
found in the policy terms. Ive considered the evidence against the actual term in the policy. 
Its accepted by both Red Sands and Mr Ts engineers that a piston fractured. So Im 
satisfied there was a failure of a mechanical or electrical component as required by the 
terms. Theres no requirement for the failure itself to be sudden or unforeseen. 
Red Sands has said the piston didnt suffer a sudden stoppage of function. It says the 
failure only occurred due to the deterioration of the piston material. But Im satisfied there 
was a sudden stoppage of the pistols function. Even Red Sands engineer says the 
structure (piston) will suddenly fracture as has happened in this case. I think its likely the 
sudden failure (fracture) of the piston caused a sudden stoppage of function  in my 
experience thats to be expected.
That means Red Sands can only fairly decline the claim if it can show the reason for the 
failure was wear and tear, deterioration or negligence  or that the damage was caused by 
the effects of overheating or abuse. 
In a recent email to this service Red Sands said it wasnt relying on wear and tear as a 
reason for declining the claim. It hasnt, as far Im aware, claimed negligence was involved. 
Neither has it referred to, or provided persuasive evidence of, overheating or abuse. 
So only deterioration remains. Deterioration isnt defined by the policy terms. So Ive used 
what I consider an ordinary everyday understanding  the process of becoming worse. That 
could have quite wide coverage or application. It might be argued every failed component 
had deteriorated  or had experienced deterioration. So Ive considered if its fair to decline 
this claim on the basis the piston had deteriorated.   
Red Sands argument is - as the piston deteriorated over a period of time the claim shouldnt 
be paid. It refers to its engineers opinion the vehicle was experiencing incorrect combustion 
for hundreds or thousands of miles. His report cites thermal discolouration on the piston 
compression ring as evidence. The engineer explains incorrect combustion will have caused 
excessive loads. This will lead to microscopic cracks. And they will eventually reach a critical 
size resulting in sudden fracture. Mr Ts engineer, in contrast, identifies material defect as 
the cause of piston failure. 
Either way I dont feel its fair for Red Sands to rely on deterioration to decline this claim. 
The policy is intended to cover unexpected mechanical breakdowns  and thats what seems 
to have happened here. The piston failed sooner than would ordinarily be expected.  
I havent seen anything to show the piston failed because it had reached the end of its 
normal or expected working life. Instead both Red Sands and Mr Ts engineers appear to 
take the position the piston failed sooner than might be expected  either through material 
defect or the effect of incorrect combustion.  
Ive no reasons to believe Mr T was, or should have, been aware of the possibility of the 
failure  or any incorrect combustion. Indeed Red Sands engineer feels its likely he 
wouldnt have been aware of the impending breakup of the piston rings. So Mr T wasnt in a 
position to take action to avoid the breakdown occurring. Im not aware of any failure, like a 
lack of maintenance, servicing or lack of reasonable care, by Mr T that may have contributed 
to the failure. 
 
Based on this, Red Sands decision to decline the claim was unfair. So I agree with our 
investigator it should reimburse Mr T the costs hes incurred because of that decision. 
As Red Sands unfairly refused the claim Mr T had to pay his garage for the stripping and 
diagnosis costs. Ive seen the invoice for the £621 he paid in January 2022 (the invoice says 
£745  but Mr T says he only paid £621). He paid for the repairs in March 2022. The invoice 
shows the cost at £3,706. Im satisfied these costs should have been covered by the claim. 
So Red Sands will need to reimburse him  the total of these amounts is below the policy 
limit.  Red Sands missed its opportunity to apply the policys labour rate limit. So it will need 
to reimburse these costs in full regardless of the hourly rate charged. If Red Sands hadnt unfairly declined the claim, he wouldnt have incurred the engineer 
report cost of £199. This was paid in November 2021. So it will need to reimburse him this 
cost as well. The same applies to fuel costs for recovery of the car (removing it from the 
garage that stripped it down) of £80 incurred in January 2021.  
Mr Ts been unfairly without these funds or incurred borrowing fees to cover the costs. To 
make up for this Red Sands will need to add simple interest at 8% to each of these three 
reimbursements. The interest should be added from the date Mr T paid the cost until the 
date of settlement. As an example 8% simple interest should be applied to £621 stripping out 
costs from January 2022 until the date Red Sands pays the redress to Mr T.  
Our investigator also recommended Red Sands pay Mr T £300 compensation. I agree thats 
a fair amount. Mr Ts had to spend a fair amount of time getting this issue resolved. He was 
unfairly left without the use of his car for several months. As a result he had to make 
alternative transport arrangements. Its reasonable that he receives some compensation to 
recognise the inconvenience, and additional expense, he experienced as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to: 
reimburse Mr T the following costs £621 stripping out, £3,706 repairs, £199 engineer 
report and £80 recovery. Simple interest at 8% is to be added to each of these 
payments as set above*. 
pay Mr T £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
*If Red Sands considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman