DRN-4314173
The complaint
Ms S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop 
Direct) irresponsibly gave a credit account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Ms S had four accounts with Shop Direct across three different brands. In 2022, Ms S 
complained to Shop Direct to say that the accounts shouldnt have been opened for her 
because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before providing her with credit. 
Shop Direct did not uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed and brought her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator thought this was a complaint that should not be upheld on 
three accounts but thought they had seen sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint in 
part on one of the accounts. Shop Direct didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 11 August 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why, despite agreeing with almost everything our investigator said, I didnt agree 
with an aspect of the investigators view and that it was my intention not to uphold Ms Ss 
complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our investigator explained why he thought there was no redress due on the two Littlewoods 
accounts or the Marshall Ward account. I agree entirely with the outcome reached by our 
investigator about those cases and for exactly the same reasons he provided. And it seems 
that both of the parties in this complaint also agree with those findings, as there has been no 
disagreement with the investigators points on those accounts from anyone, or any comment 
about them at all. So, I think it is reasonable to say, as I have above, that I agree those 
findings and in the absence of any argument about them, to focus this decision on the fourth 
account, the one with Very. If either party presses me to say more about the first three 
accounts, I can, of course, address that in my final decision.
For the Very account, our investigator thought the credit limit increase in February 2019 was
unaffordable. No argument has been made for an uphold earlier in the account. Ms Ss
complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Its possible that
Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms S with credit. But even if
thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries would have caused
Shop Direct to think the credit was unaffordable. I explain why I say that below.
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because neither party has
provided much in the way of credit information from the times. And I have not seen a full
credit report that covers the time. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any credit
Ms S may have had or how Ms S was managing any existing credit she had at the time
the lending decisions were made. I do have what Shop Direct have told me they
ascertained about Ms S at the time of the credit increase in February 2019. Shop Direct
said that they had no evidence of any significant adverse credit on the checks they
performed at that time. And I have noted that there was only one administrative charge on
that account in the seven months prior to the credit increase. So, Im not persuaded that
Shop Direct should have avoided the credit increase from this information.
I have also considered how the account was being managed. Whilst there was some
administrative charges on the account at various times, I note that there was no
administrative charges on the account in the four months before the credit increase in
February 2019. So, there was no reason not to award the increase based on how Ms S
was managing her account at that time. And taking a longer view there was only one
administrative charge in the seven months prior to the credit increase. It is true that if we
go further back the picture is less clear. But the immediate history suggested that Ms S
was managing her account better than she had done historically. So, I have attached less
weight to this than our investigator did. I think the immediate account history is insufficient
to make the credit limit automatically unreasonable.
And I see no reason why that same information would have led them to want to make
further study of Ms Ss expenditure. But had Shop Direct seen the bank statements that
Ms S provided us from that time I dont think that would have led them to avoid the credit
increase. I say that because Ive considered the statements for the three months before
the credit increase. These seem to show that the money passing into Ms Ss account
largely matched the money passing out of the account. And the account was being
managed within a broadly steady balance. I note that the balance at the beginning of
November 2018 was largely the same balance at the end of January 2019.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any
extra evidence from Ms S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that
more thorough affordability checks would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it
provided Ms S was unreasonable in February 2019.
Subsequently, there was only one further increase to a credit limit. This happened in
November 2022 when the credit limit increased from £850 to £1,000. But I note that after
that increase the credit balance never rose above £300 so I dont think Ms S has suffered
detriment as a result of that increase.
I know that Ms S will be disappointed, but I want Ms S to know that I considered all the
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to
uphold this complaint or ask Shop Direct to make any award.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 25 August 2023. Shop Direct responded acknowledging receipt of my provisional decision. They said they have nothing further to add. Ms S has acknowledged 
receipt of the provisional decision and has told us she accepts my provisional findings. 
As both parties have acknowledged receiving my provisional findings, and both parties have 
accepted those findings, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms S has accepted my provisional findings and as neither party has provided any further 
submissions for me to consider, I have no real new information to consider following my 
provisional decision. That being the case, I have no reason to depart from those findings. 
And as Ive already set out my full reasons (above) for not upholding Ms Ss complaint, I 
have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman