DRN-2560137
The complaint
Ms D complains about delays in the handling of a claim she made to Zenith Insurance plc 
after she lost her mobile phone.
What happened
Ms D has a gadget insurance policy underwritten by Zenith which covers her mobile phone. 
She made a claim in June 2020 after she lost her phone.
She says shes provided information about her phone to Zenith in line with their requests, but 
they havent settled the claim. She says they keep asking her for the same information.
Ms D made a complaint to Zenith, but they maintained she still hadnt provided the 
information they need. So, Ms D brought her compliant to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Zenith had done anything wrong. 
Ms D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has provided Zenith with a number of documents to support her claim. However, 
theyve told her that they need something from her provider which shows proof of usage of 
the phone in the period after she took out insurance.
The terms and conditions which Ms D signed up to when she took the insurance are clear 
that, in the event of a claim, Zenith are entitled to ask for proof of usage, which can be 
obtained by the customer from their network provider.
Thats not an unusual term in mobile phone insurance policies. And its not inherently unfair 
or unreasonable. 
Insurers arent acting unfairly if they require proof that the gadget in question was in working 
order, not lost and being used after the date the insurance was taken out. Otherwise, it 
would be possible to take out a policy  and make a claim - after youve lost or damaged 
your phone. 
And the term about proof of usage is clearly set out in Ms Ds policy. So, she would  or 
should  have known what Zenith might require from her in the event of a claim.
Ms Ds policy was taken out on 20 May 2020. Her claim was made on 14 June 2020. I cant 
say its unreasonable or unfair for Zenith to ask Ms D to demonstrate that she had the phone 
and was using it in the period between those two dates 
Ms D believes that her phone bill shows that she was using the phone in that period. It 
doesnt. It shows she was billed for services by her provider, but its not specific about what 
handsets were used.
Proof of usage documents are readily available from network suppliers, free of charge. Im 
sure Zenith will progress Ms Ds claim once shes provided them with that document. And its 
not unfair or unreasonable of them to refuse to do so unless and until they have proof of 
usage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman