DRN-2479043
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC prevented him accessing his trading account, 
so he was unable to carry out the trade he wanted.
What happened
 Mr B has a Barclays SmartInvestor account and on 11 February 2020 was unable to access 
his account online, despite various attempts to do so, for around 30 minutes, between 16.00 
hours and 16.30 hours. As the market was then closed, he was unable to carry out the trade 
he wanted.
Mr B notified Barclays of the issue he had with access to his online account the following 
day. In its final response letter (FRL) Barclays was unable to say that the reason Mr B was 
unable to access his account online was due to an error on its part and that often the cause 
is localised and can be the result of the clients internet not picking up the connection to the 
page that is wanted. It also pointed out that he could have contacted it by phone when the 
problem first arose and was unable to offer him anything for any financial loss he may have 
suffered, but it offered him £50 for the inconvenience caused by not being able to access his 
account.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She referred to 
Barclayss terms and conditions which included that it isnt liable for losses due to any failure 
of the online services it provides that are beyond its reasonable control. 
She said the evidence she had seen didnt show that the problem Mr B had accessing the 
online service was due a failure of Barclays Trading Platform. She said the error code which 
showed the page couldnt be displayed wasnt shown in the usual format displayed by 
Barclayss website which suggested the problems Mr B had were with Mr Bs internet 
connection or device.
The investigator also repeated what Barclays had said about Mr B being able to phone as an 
alternative when the online service isnt available.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary he made the following key points:
Barclays admitted there was a problem with the website.
Barclays has accepted the error message originated from it.
The terms and conditions (Ts & Cs) are excessively and unreasonably onerous.
Barclays initially denied he had suffered any issue so there may be other customers 
who didnt bother to complain or found a workaround.
Barclays admits phone transactions arent nearly as effective as online trading.
What independent audit has been undertaken of Barclays IT systems and 
complaints that arent referred to our service?
The investigator responded to the points made by Mr B saying that Barclays had consistently 
said it couldnt establish if the problem was with its systems or his internet connection or 
equipment. She repeated that the error message wasnt in the usual format seen on 
Barclays platform which is why she had found it was more likely a localised issue with Mr 
Bs internet connection or equipment. 
The investigator also said on the information she had seen there wasnt a wider issue 
involving other customers. She also explained that our role was to investigate Mr Bs specific 
issues and not financial services as a whole, and that we dont carry out audits on business 
IT systems or have details of complaints not referred to our service.
Mr B provided a further response in which he referred to our service being the regulator of 
such issues as the one he had raised and said that he didnt recognise the terms and 
conditions dated September 2018 she had sent and that there had been updates since then 
and the terms were unfair and he didnt sign up to them freely. 
Mr B said Barclays had accepted fault in its letter to him of 15 July 2020 and suggested it 
was shameful there was no independent check of Barclays systems. He also said it was 
absurd to suggest that phone dealing equated with online dealing and that it was shameful 
that the investigator had refused to indicate whether other people had complained about the 
same issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Given the comments Mr B has made to the investigator about us auditing Barclayss IT 
systems and having some king of regulatory function I think it is important to make clear 
what our service is and does. 
We are an impartial dispute resolution service and as such our role is to look at individual 
complaints and come to a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the individual 
case. Where there is a dispute as to the facts then findings are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not. We rely on the parties to provide the information 
and evidence relevant to a complaint. 
If we are of the view that not all relevant information has been provided, then we will ask for 
further information. It is not part of our role to go into a business to obtain our own 
information by way of audit or otherwise. In reaching a decision we will take account of 
relevant law, regulation and best industry practice but are not bound by this.
Mr B has said that he doesnt recognise the September 2018 terms and conditions that were 
sent to him and referred to Barclayss Ts & Cs being onerous in response to the clause the 
investigator referred to in her opinion. The clause states:
3.4 We will not be liable for any Losses you may suffer due to any failure of the online 
services for Smart Investor, including any Trading Platform, transmission failure or delays or 
similar technical errors, or problems with the software or data feeds provided by third parties, 
to the extent that the failure is beyond our reasonable control.
I wouldnt expect any business to guarantee online access given the potential for there to be 
an interruption to such a service through outages or for other reasons that are beyond the 
control of the business, and clauses such as this are quite normal. I have no reason to think 
this clause doesnt apply to Mr Bs account given it applies to all SmartInvestor customers. I 
also dont consider it to be onerous, although I acknowledge it must have been very frustrating to Mr B on the day in question to not eb able to access his account online when 
he wanted to make a t
There is no issue that Mr B was unable to access his online account on 11 February for a 
period of about 30 minutes. In its FRL Barclays explained that it was unable to identify 
whether the error code that Mr B referred to, which said the page he wanted couldnt be 
displayed due to a technical error, was due to a problem at its end or at Mr Bs. 
In its subsequent letter to him of 15 July 2020 Barclays said that the error message wasnt 
one Barclays had come across before so it could not be sure if it was one generated by its 
system or Mr Bs. But it then said that for the benefit of the doubt it agreed it was Barclays.
Despite what Barclays said in the letter it is obviously not clear whether the problem was at 
Barclays end rather than Mr Bs. It made clear in the letter of 15 July 2020, as it had already 
done in its FRL, that it was unable to say at whose end the problem arose. In the internal 
notes and communications following Mr Bs complaint it is recorded that no other issues 
were reported from clients and there were no internal communications about any issue at the 
time Mr B couldnt access his account.
In the circumstances the evidence is inconclusive as to whether the cause of the problem 
was at Barclays end or Mr Bs, although the fact there is no record that any other client had 
a problem, and nothing picked up internally to suggest there was an issue, perhaps indicates 
the problem was more likely to be at Mr Bs end. In any event the evidence is certainly not 
enough for me to find it is more likely than not the problem was at Barclays end rather than 
Mr Bs.
But even if I did make a finding that the problem was at Barclays end, there is no evidence 
that this was because of something Barclays did wrong. And as I have already indicated, it 
isnt reasonable to expect a business that provides an online service to guarantee that the 
service will always be available as it can be affected by matters completely outside of its 
control.
If Barclays had been notified of an issue at the time and had ignored this there might be a 
basis for finding it had done something wrong, but this isnt what happened. Instead Mr B 
notified Barclays of the issue the following day, at which time there was no ongoing problem 
with his access to his account. Given Barclays was unaware of there being an issue with Mr 
Bs access on 11 February 2020 there is no basis for finding it did anything wrong in not 
resolving that issue.
Barclays do provide an alternative method of trading, by phone. I note what Mr B has said 
about this and accept it isnt the same as online trading in terms of either convenience, cost 
or otherwise. But the option of using the phone isnt provided on the basis that it provides the 
same service as the online service. It is to allow customers the opportunity of carrying out a 
trade when they dont have access to the online service.
I note Mr B has said he only had access to a payphone on the day in question, so using the 
phone would not have been particularly easy or practical for him. But Barclays isnt 
responsible for this. The alternative of using the phone instead of the online service is 
common with stockbrokers and is a reasonable alternative to the online service when this 
isnt available.
In summary, there is no persuasive evidence that the problem with online access was at 
Barclayss end or that if it was that this was the result of anything it had done wrong. Given it 
wasnt made aware of any issue until the following day it would not be fair or reasonable to find it was responsible for Mr B being unable to access his account online on 11 February 
2020. It would also not be fair or reasonable to hold it responsible for Mr B not being able to 
trade on that day in any event given it provided an alternative way to trade by phone. 
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman