DRN-3468527
The complaint
Ms M complains about the end of contract charges applied by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as MINI Financial Services (BMWFS) when her car finance agreement came 
to an end. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint.
At this point, I wish to stress that Im aware that Ms M also complained about the sale of the 
personal contract purchase (PCP) and what happened at the end of the agreement. That 
has been considered under a separate complaint and an ombudsman has already issued 
their final decision on those matters. Therefore it wont be appropriate for me to provide any 
further comment on that. In this decision, Ive only considered the end of contract charges. 
Damage
When the car was returned in February 2021, it was appraised in line with BMWFS return 
process. Damage was found to several areas of the car and Ms M was told she had to pay 
£614 in charges. I understand she disputes these charges. She comments when she 
acquired the car it was used and despite it being in her possession for four years the car was 
in good condition given its age and mileage. BMWFS said the damage found to the car 
exceeded what they would consider fair wear and tear. 
The damage reported was as follows:
Car part Damage Damage charge
Wheel LHF Scratched £33
Wheel LHR Scratched £33
Wheel RHR Scratched £33
Wheel RHF Scratched £33
Bumper front Scratched £45
Bumper rear Scratched £106
Tailgate Scratched £106
QTR panel RHR Scratched £106
Door RHF Dented £119
Total £614
The terms of the agreement, which Ms M signed in March 2017, explains if the car isnt 
returned in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear), BMWFS will charge 
for each item of damage. Ms M signed this agreement when she acquired the car so I cant 
say she wasnt made aware of the same. 
BMWFS said when considering damage, they refer to the guidance published by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry guidance which sets out 
what is considered fair wear and tear when cars are returned at the end of their agreements. 
However I must bear in mind this guidance is primarily for cars that were new when supplied. 
In this case, the car was around three years old when it was supplied and it had travelled 
over 16,200 miles. When it was returned it was around seven years old so I must take this 
into account when considering the damage reported. Nevertheless, I think its fair for 
BMWFS and our service to take the BVRLA guidance into account as its still relevant about 
what is considered fair wear and tear. 
Unfortunately I havent been provided with any evidence about the condition of the car when 
it was supplied to Ms M in 2017. But given the cars age and mileage at supply, I believe its 
fair to say its most likely some wear and tear wouldve been present. 
Ive considered the inspection report that was completed when the car was returned and 
appraised including the accompanying pictures. 
The wheels
The inspection reports states damage is found on all four wheels and BMWFS charged £33 
for each of them. The BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel are acceptable. Having reviewed the photographs of the reported damage, I 
can see there are significant scuff marks around all the wheels which in my opinion are in 
excess of 50mm. Therefore, Im satisfied this damage is beyond fair wear and tear even 
given the cars age and mileage so BMWFS were entitled to charge for this.  
The bumper, QTR panel and tailgate
The report says scratches are found on the bumper (front and rear), QTR and tailgate. 
BVRLA says scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. Having looked at the photographs of the 
reported damage in all these areas, its clear there are a number of scratches present and in 
excess of 25 mm. I note the scratch on the tailgate is particularly long and based on the 
measuring tool shown next to it, its over 100 mm long. The front and rear bumper also 
shows several significant scratches. Even when considering the age and mileage of the car, 
I dont find this damage to be fair wear and tear. 
As these scratches are significantly above the BVLRAs guidance, I believe BMWFS were 
entitled to charge for this. 
The door
The report says there is a dent on the door (RHF).  The BVRLA guidance says dents of 
15mm or less in diameter are acceptable providing there are no more than two per panel 
and the paint surface isnt broken. Having looked at the pictures, Im satisfied the dent on the 
is above what is considered acceptable meaning BMWFS are entitled to charge for it. 
Excess mileageMs M accepts the charges for exceeding the permitted mileage. As this is the case, I wont 
provide any further comment as this isnt in dispute. 
Other 
From my understanding although Ms M disputes the damage charge she has paid this while 
our service has been investigating the complaint. However she is unhappy that BMWFS has 
recorded late payments markers on her credit file in relation to this payment and she wants 
this removed. BMWFS said as the payment was more than 28 days late, they were entitled 
to record it as a late payment on her credit file.
Financial businesses like BMWFS have a duty to report fair and accurate data on their 
consumers credit file. While I accept Ms M disputed the damage charge and raised a 
complaint, this doesnt mean the damage payment didnt become due and as per the terms 
of the agreement she was required to pay this. I also note in BMWFS final response, they 
explained when a late payment would be recorded and how this could have a negative 
impact on a credit file. Therefore Im satisfied Ms M was aware of the same. While I 
understand there were delays in her acquiring the money, it wouldnt be fair to say BMWFS 
are responsible for this. As the payment was received late and beyond the 28 days as 
mentioned, I think it was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to record it as being late so I wont 
be asking them to remove this information from Ms Ms credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman