DRN-3534285
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed its accounts, which 
caused it significant losses.
What happened
The facts which led to F making this complaint are well known to both parties. But in 
summary:
F is a limited company, and this complaint is brought on its behalf by its directors, Mr 
A and Mr D. F held a current account and a foreign currency account with HSBC.
HSBC decided to terminate their relationship with F following a review. On 24 June 
2020 they gave F two months notice that its accounts would close. Unfortunately, 
HSBC made an error and closed the accounts immediately.
HSBC recognised they shouldnt have closed Fs accounts immediately. They 
reinstated the current account in July 2020 and later sent out debit cards that same 
month. But they said the accounts would still close on the notice period expiring. 
They offered F £150 to make up for their error
F was very unhappy its accounts were closed as it says they were pivotal to carrying 
out arrangements it had with clients. It asked HSBC to review their decision and 
reinstate the accounts. HSBC confirmed they would not reopen the accounts.
Our investigator decided to uphold Fs complaint in part. They concluded:
HSBC had the commercial discretion to close Fs accounts and our service wouldnt 
generally interfere with the exercise of that discretion. So, HSBC were entitled to 
close the accounts.
HSBC needed to close the accounts according to the accounts terms and conditions. 
They admitted they closed the accounts prematurely before the notice period 
expired.
£150 wasnt enough to make up for the inconvenience and reputational damage 
caused to F by not having access to its current account when it should have. F 
provided information to show it was an active business with clients, so making 
alternative arrangements at short notice likely impacted it and its clients.
HSBC should pay £350 to make up for the impact of their error. While F said it 
suffered financial loss beyond this sum, the evidence it provided didnt show its 
actual financial loss or that the loss resulted from HSBC immediately closing the 
accounts. F would have always had to make alternative arrangements because 
HSBC decided to close its accounts and HSBC could do this.
HSBC should refund any account charges which they applied during the time F 
couldnt use the current account due to HSBCs error. It was unclear whether a £5.50 
charge had been refunded or not.
F disagreed with the outcome. It said holding accounts with a top tier bank like HSBC were 
essential to the nature of its business arrangements with clients, and without them it has 
suffered a significant and ongoing loss. It asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so 
the complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Fs complaint, but I am not directing HSBC to pay F any more than 
the compensation recommended by our investigator. Ill explain why:
Our investigator was correct to conclude HSBC had the commercial discretion to end 
their relationship with F. HSBC could decide to close Fs accounts at any time and it 
didnt need to tell F why. I understand why F is unhappy about having its accounts 
closed, but I have considered why HSBC closed the accounts, and I find they acted 
within the bounds of their discretion.
HSBC provided accounts to F, but they didnt agree that they would only close Fs 
accounts if the closures didnt interfere with the performance of any private 
arrangements F had with clients. An agreement of this kind would represent a 
significant imposition on HSBCs commercial freedom and HSBC was not party to Fs 
arrangements with its clients. So, just because F says its HSBC accounts were 
central to its arrangements, doesnt mean that HSBC should compensate F because 
those arrangements were negatively impacted by HSBCs decision to not continue 
their relationship with F.
HSBC were meant to close Fs accounts on the expiry of the notice period and not 
before - so they made an error. On balance, I find the length of time F couldnt use 
the accounts during the notice period would have caused it some inconvenience. Its 
also reasonable to conclude Fs clients may have been concerned about having to do 
something different without notice, so the reputation of F could have been impacted 
by this. I find £350 is a fair sum to compensate F in this regard.
From the information HSBC provided its not clear they refunded a £5.50 account 
charge which debited Fs current account on 24 June 2020. They did refund an 
£11.50 account charge which also debited the account that same day, so it seems 
reasonable that HSBC should refund the £5.50 to make up for immediately closing 
the account when they shouldnt have
I am not awarding F any more than this. I have borne in mind that based on what F 
has said the main loss it suffered stemmed from the closure of its accounts, as 
opposed to not being able to use the accounts for a period of time during the notice 
period. I have no reason to doubt F experienced losses if, as it says, holding HSBC 
accounts was essential to its arrangements with clients. But as I find HSBC didnt do 
anything wrong by deciding to close the accounts, those are not losses I will be 
telling HSBC to put right.
Its for F to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate actual financial loss caused by 
HSBCs error. But I dont find the information F provided demonstrates actual 
financial loss caused by not having use of the accounts when it should have. Instead 
it evidences the general importance of F having bank accounts in relation to its 
arrangements with clients, and that it received significant sums into its current 
account in the past and may have expected to receive significant sums in the future.F confirmed with our investigator that it mitigated the loss of its internet domain, 
which was a loss it originally brought to HSBCs attention. It clarified that the issue for 
it was the business it lost because of HSBCs actions. So, I have not awarded 
compensation for the trouble F may have been caused in relation to its internet 
domain.
I understand the loss of Fs accounts has caused Fs directors personal trouble and 
upset, but those are not losses I can consider. F is a separate legal person to its 
directors, and I can only consider losses it experienced.
Putting things right
Subject to F accepting my final decision, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to: 
Pay £350 to F to compensate for F not having use of the account for a time during 
the notice period. HSBC has indicated it has already paid F the £150 it originally 
offered. If this is the case, then HSBC need only pay F a further £200.
Refund £5.50 back to F unless HSBC has already refunded this account charge.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Fs complaint. Subject to F accepting my final decision            
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay F compensation in accordance with the directions I have given 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Liam King
Ombudsman