DRN-3757467
The complaint
A business I will refer to as A complains about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) decision to decline a 
claim under its commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
A says it has fire and theft cover in place under its motor trade insurance policy. It says one 
of its vehicles was being repaired by a third-party when it was stolen. A contacted QIC about 
the loss but it declined its claim relying on a policy exclusion. 
QIC says the vehicle was under the custody and control of a third-party garage at the time of 
the theft. It says its policy terms only provide cover when a vehicle is in the custody of A. 
QIC says A should redirect its claim to the insurers of the third-party garage. 
A didnt think this was fair and referred its complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says QIC has fairly relied on its policy terms to exclude the claim. 
A didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold As complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for the insured party to show that an insured loss has occurred. If it can do this then, 
generally speaking, the insurer must pay the claim. This is unless the insurer is able to show 
that a policy exclusion applies, in which case it can then, reasonably, decline the claim. 
Company A describes how its vehicle was stolen from the premises of the third-party garage 
whilst it was carrying out repairs. I note its comments that the policy specifies theft as an 
insured event so the policy should cover the loss. 
Ive read As policy schedule, certificate, and policy terms to understand the cover provided 
here. The policy schedule, under the heading, General Policy Information says:
EXCLUDING ANY:
vehicle being driven by or in the custody or control of any person not described in the 
Certificate of Motor Insurance shown above.
The policyholder is confirmed as company A in the policy schedule and certificate. 
The policy terms under the section entitled, General Exclusions say:
Your insurance does not cover claims arising from any of the following:
Any accident, injury, loss or damage while any vehicle covered by this insurance is being:
Driven by or in the charge of anyone who is not named in the certificate of motor 
insurance as a permitted driver or is excluded by endorsement.
Ive thought carefully about As view that the policy covers the theft of a vehicle, and so its 
loss should be covered by QIC in this case. Im sorry company A has suffered a loss, but I 
cant agree that its policy provides cover in these circumstances. 
The policy terms are clear that the vehicle must be in the charge, custody, or control of the 
insured at the time of the loss. Company A doesnt dispute that the vehicle was stolen whilst 
at the third-party garage. I think its clear that this means the third-party garage had custody 
of the vehicle when it was stolen. 
The policy terms are clearly set out on the first page of the policy schedule and in the policy 
booklet. Because of this I dont think QIC behaved unfairly when declining this claim. I think it 
was correct to direct A to the third-party garages insurer. 
In summary I dont think QIC behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining 
As claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman