DRN-2267007
The complaint
 Ms F complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
 In June 2019, Ms F fell victim to a scam. Based on the submissions of both parties, I 
understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Ms F received messages, via a social media platform, from who she thought was her uncle.  
The messages invited Ms F to invest money in a programme that helped the young and old 
in society. She was told if she invested £4,000, she would be able to get $100,000 in return. 
Thinking the messages were from her uncle, Ms F was persuaded to invest. But unknown to 
her at the time, her uncles social media account had been hacked and she was 
communicating with a fraudster.
Believing the messages and opportunity to benefit from the programme to be genuine, Ms F 
followed the fraudsters instructions, which were to make the investment payments through 
the purchase of gift cards. Between 17-19 June 2019, Ms F visited a number of well-known 
retail shops and purchased gift cards using her Capital One credit card. The instructions 
from the fraudsters were that, having purchased the gift cards, Ms F was to photocopy them 
and send the details to the fraudsters, which she did.
During this period Ms F purchased a total of £4,600 worth of gift cards, using her Capital 
One credit card, and passed the details of all of them to the fraudsters. A breakdown of the 
payments she made using her Capital One credit card is listed below;
17/6/2019 £100
17/6/2019 £900
18/6/2019 £500
18/6/2019 £400
18/6/2019 £400
18/6/2019 £400
18/6/2019 £300
18/6/2019 £300
18/6/2019 £300
18/6/2019 £200
19/6/2019 £400
19/6/2019 £400
It wasnt until some days later, when a friend suggested to Ms F that this may be a scam, 
that Ms F realised what had happened and reported the scam to Capital One. Capital One 
looked into the matter and it issued its final response on 18 September 2019. It said while it 
understood Ms F was misled into making the payments, as she had genuinely made them, it 
would be unable to refund Ms F the money and that Ms F was liable for the balance on the 
account.
Ms F then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. He thought the account activity should have been of concern to Capital One and that 
it ought to have intervened. Our investigator said that while he didnt think Capital One 
should have recognised earlier payments as suspicious, at the point, on 18 June 2019, 
where Ms F was making a payment of £300 in the same retailer where she had just made 
three transactions of £400, that Capital One ought to have intervened. Our investigator felt 
that had Capital One spoken to Ms F, before allowing this payment to be processed, the 
scam would have come to light and Ms F wouldnt have lost this payment, or the subsequent 
ones she made.
Our investigator recommended that Capital One should refund the £1,900 that Ms F had lost 
from this point, and it should restructure Ms Fs credit card account to reflect this.
Capital One responded, it said that while it didnt consider the steps our investigator said it 
shouldve taken at an earlier stage to be realistic, it agreed with the remediation set out in 
our investigators view.
Ms F didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary she said she considered the 
social media company was also responsible and that she couldnt repay the money she 
owed. She also told our investigator that shed made contact with StepChange to help with 
her finances.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand that Ms F considers the social media company played a part in her falling 
victim to this scam. And I also understand that Ms F sadly lost a considerable amount of 
money, from other finance providers, as part of this same scam. But I should make it clear 
from the outset, my decision here focuses solely on the complaint Ms F has made against 
Capital One  and my findings will only relate to that.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. I hope Ms 
F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed things into what I see is the crux of her 
complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms F, and I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully about 
Capital Ones actions, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say it should refund Ms F all of 
the money she lost. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding whatis fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Capital One should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent  
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm
In this case, I need to decide whether Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms F, when she made the transactions, that ultimately went to a fraudster and when she 
reported the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
In making the payments using her credit card, through CHIP and PIN, Im satisfied Ms F 
authorised the payments. Because of this, Capital One had an obligation to follow Ms Fs 
instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding the payments - as Ive explained, I consider that as a 
matter of good practice Capital One shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
Capital One has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But having 
reviewed the payments that Ms F has made, Im persuaded that a pattern of payments 
begun to emerge, that I think ought to have caused Capital One to be concerned that Ms F 
might have been at risk of financial harm.
I think its reasonable to suggest, its unusual in general for someone to make multiple high 
value transactions to the same retailer over the course of such a short period of time. Ive not 
seen evidence to suggest that this was typical activity compared with how Ms F usually used 
this account. I consider where Ms F makes multiple payments, in a short period of time, at 
the same retailer it begins to look suspicious. 
I think at the point Ms F was attempting to make the first payment of £300, on 18 June 2019, 
which followed three payments of £400 at the same retailer, on the same day, there was 
enough going on that Capital One ought to have been concerned.  With this I think it should 
have taken steps to conduct additional checks before processing the payment, as I think the 
activity on the account represented a possibility that Ms F may have been at risk of financial 
harm. Had Capital One intervened at this point, as I think it ought to have done, I think it would 
have made the difference and I think the fraud would have come to light. I say this as Ms F 
hadnt been coached by the fraudster on what to say if her bank had of intervened, as can 
often be the case with scams, so I think she would have answered any questions Capital 
One put to her freely. I think she would have explained shed received a message on 
Facebook to invest in a programme and that payment for the investment was being made 
through the purchase of gift cards.
I dont think the answers Ms F would have more likely than not given Capital One would 
have done anything to relieve it of concerns it ought to have had that Ms F may be at risk. I 
think its reasonable to expect professional financial businesses to be alive to the fact that 
payments being made for gift cards to pass onto criminals, is generally a well-known method 
of fraud. I think Capital One would have been alerted to this and been able to provide Ms F 
with the relevant guidance and warnings about scams, in the context of the payment she 
was trying to, and had, made. With this I think it more likely than not Ms F would have 
heeded Capital Ones advice and wouldnt have gone on to make this or further payments to 
the fraudster. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Capital One did what it shouldve done once Ms F 
reported to it, that shed been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Capital One to refund the money to Ms F, I need to be satisfied that Capital One should have 
acted sooner in trying to recover the money. But here Ms F had purchased gift cards and 
passed the details onto the fraudster, so I dont think there was an opportunity for Capital 
One to recover any of the money lost. 
 
I have also considered whether Ms F was herself blameworthy in some way. But I am not 
persuaded she was. All things considered, I am satisfied she was simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of clever fraudsters, who convinced her she was communicating with a 
trusted family member. 
Putting things right
 In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Capital One should fairly and reasonably reimburse 
the seventh payment made as a result of the fraud, and all five of the payments made 
thereafter. I understand Ms F feels that she should have all of her money returned. Its very 
unfortunate she has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Capital One to refund all of 
the money lost. 
Ms F has explained that she cant afford to repay the balance on her Capital One account. I 
would expect Capital One to work with Ms F in a positive and sympathetic way when dealing 
with her outstanding balance.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc 
and direct it to:
- rework Ms Fs account and reimburse the seventh payment and all five payments 
made thereafter as a result of the fraud.
-Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman