DRN-2250021
The complaint
In summary, Mr and Mrs S have complained that they were given incorrect information by 
Accord Mortgages Limited, including the contractual amount they could overpay their 
mortgage by each year without incurring a penalty. They say this has led to them paying 
more of a redemption penalty than they needed to have paid, when the mortgage was 
redeemed.
What happened
In 2019 Mr S contacted Accord to ask for a figure as to how much he could pay off on the 
mortgage, without incurring a penalty. The figure he was given was incorrect which resulted 
in him having to make an additional payment.
Mr S contacted Accord again towards the beginning of January 2020. He asked if he repaid 
his mortgage that month, whether the early redemption charge would apply to 90% of the 
outstanding balance, if no further payments were made. The call handler told Mr S that this 
was correct.
Towards the end of January 2020, Accord received a request for a redemption figure for 
Mr and Mrs S mortgage. This was sent to their solicitor.
Mr S contacted Accord again towards the middle of February 2020 to query the redemption 
statement that had been produced. He was told the redemption figure was correct and that 
he could make an overpayment of 10% of the outstanding balance could be made. 
About a week later a further redemption figure was requested by Mr and Mrs S solicitor. The 
mortgage was repaid on 20 February 2020. On 22 February Accord wrote to Mr and Mrs S 
with information that was incorrect.
Accord wrote to Mr and Mrs S in response to their complaint. It accepted that mistakes had 
been made with the information provided in December 2019 and in January 2020. It also 
accepted that the letter sent to them confirming the redemption of the mortgage, also 
contained incorrect information. By way of an apology, it paid £100 into their bank account.
Mr and Mrs S complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She explained that 
whilst she recognised Accord had given incorrect information on the phone, the mortgage 
terms allowed it to apply an early redemption charge.  
Mr S explained in response why he didnt agree with the investigator. His solicitor couldnt be 
expected to review the information straightaway. And she didnt flag with him that the figure 
was too high. This wouldnt have impacted the time to pay off more of the mortgage as it 
would have taken 10 working days for the proceeds of any investments that were settled to 
pay the 10% overpayment, to be settled. 
Mr S went on to say in total the process would have led to delays of at least 6 weeks. He 
would have paid significantly more interest with Accord over that period than with his new 
mortgage provider. If he had been given the correct information in 2019, he could have 
organised for an overpayment to be made at the beginning of January 2020.
The investigator wrote to Mr S again explaining why she wasnt persuaded to change her 
opinion. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that he was given incorrect information about the redemption penalty when he 
contacted Accord in December 2019. Accords records dont indicate that was the case. And 
as I dont have a call recording its difficult for me to safely make a finding that this was the 
case. 
However, its not in dispute that Accord gave Mr S incorrect information at the beginning of 
January 2020 regarding the figure on which any redemption penalty would be calculated. 
The redemption statement was requested by Mr S towards the end of January and sent 
directly to Mr S solicitor who was dealing with the re-mortgage. That contained the correct 
redemption figure. So, Im satisfied that Accord corrected its mistake before Mr and Mrs S 
redeemed their mortgage. And that they were made aware that they could make a further 
overpayment of 10% of the outstanding mortgage balance in order to reduce the amount of 
the redemption penalty. They decided not to.
Mr and Mrs S believe that they have lost out as a result of Accords mistake. As Ive 
summarised above, Mr S has outlined the timeline of events which he says resulted in them 
not being able to make an overpayment before they needed to redeem the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S think that the incorrect information has led to them losing out financially. And I 
accept that if they had been correct information in January this would have given them more 
time to make arrangements to make an overpayment. But based on everything Ive been 
provided with, I simply dont have enough evidence to safely say that they have lost out 
financially because of what Accord told them.
I say this because Im satisfied that they were aware before redeeming the mortgage that the 
early redemption penalty would apply to the whole figure on the redemption statement. A 
redemption statement was sent to their solicitor a few weeks after the incorrect information 
was provided at the beginning of January. And with this information they chose to go ahead 
and redeem their mortgage. 
They have said that they were concerned that it would take too long to encash investments 
to enable them to make the overpayment. But I havent seen enough to assess whether the 
time frame they have said was a reasonable one. 
So, in summary whilst I accept that Mr and Mrs S were given incorrect information by 
Accord, I dont have enough evidence to safely say that they suffered financial losses as a 
result of this. And they were aware of the redemption figure before deciding to redeem the 
mortgage. In the circumstances I think the £100 offered by Accord is an appropriate amount 
to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience they incurred. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above I think the offer of £100 made by Accord Mortgages 
Limited is fair and reasonable. It has said this amount has been paid to Mr and Mrs S. If it 
hasnt been, Accord Mortgages Limited should pay this to Mr and Mrs S if they accept my 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman