DRN-2094370
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the market value settlement Highway Insurance Company 
Limited paid when he made a claim under his specialist vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was involved in an incident involving another vehicle which he says he swerved to 
avoid as they were driving on the wrong side of the road. Mr Cs van was damaged and he 
reported the incident to his insurer, Highway. 
Highway settled Mr Cs claim by paying the market value for his van as it said it wasnt 
economical to repair it. Highway paid a settlement sum of £13,500.
Mr C complained to Highway as he said he gave an agreed value for the van of £20,000 
when he bought the policy. He said the valuation was too low. He was also unhappy about 
the salvage fee it intended to take if he wanted to keep the van. Mr C was upset to find his 
van was on an auction site for sale. 
Highway agreed to remove the van for sale while his complaint was investigated. 
Mr C provided an independent engineer report. He valued Mr Cs van at between £16,700 
and £16,750. Mr C asked Highway to consider paying a market value of £15,000 and reduce 
the salvage fee to £3,000. But Highway didnt agree. Highway considered the report but 
didnt increase the settlement it paid. It was satisfied it had paid a fair sum.
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. He said he felt LV hadnt considered the additional 
information hed gone to the trouble of obtaining to support his case. Our investigator 
explained that we dont decide a valuation. And Mr Cs policy isnt an agreed value policy. So 
the investigator looked at whether the market value Highway had decided was reached in a 
reasonable way. 
He acknowledged the difficulty in deciding a fair valuation for Mr Cs van because of its age, 
condition and the difficulty in finding a similar vehicle for sale. And he thought it reasonable 
for there to be some inconvenience for Mr C in providing supporting valuation evidence. 
The investigator thought based on the reports provided by Mr Cs independent engineer and 
Highways engineer, the fairest outcome was for Highway to pay the midway point between 
the two valuations. So he recommended Highway increase the total loss settlement to 
£15,100.
He thought Highways decision to pause the sale of Mr Cs van was fair. 
Highway said it could understand how the investigator came to this view, based on two 
engineer reports. But it said its report provided copies of the examples their engineer relied 
on, and it said Mr Cs engineers report didnt. Photos of Mr Cs van show the extent of 
corrosion which Highway feels Mr Cs engineer didnt address. So Highway believes their 
engineer provided sufficient evidence to substantiate the value they gave, whereas the value 
given by Mr Cs engineer doesnt provide the same level of evidence to support their 
valuation.
Mr C didnt provide any further comments. 
So as Highway didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of the van at 
the time of loss. The policy says:
we will usually ask an engineer to give us advice about the market value of the 
insured vehicle, refer to guides of vehicle values and any other relevant sources.
I agree that its difficult to decide a fair valuation in this case. And although Highway say Mr 
Cs independent engineer didnt provide examples of the adverts he referred to, I dont think 
this means his valuation should carry less weight. I think if Highway had requested further 
evidence at the time, the information most likely would have been available to support the 
report. 
Mr Cs engineers report is detailed and provides information on the condition of Mr Cs van, 
including reference to some reappearing corrosion. He was able to physically inspect the 
van. Both engineers agree that a valuation for a van of this age (over 40 years old) depends 
heavily on the condition of it.
I can see that both engineers relied on the same specialist vehicle selling site for its 
examples. But they provided different examples of what was on site at the time of their 
reports to support their valuations. So on balance, I think a fairer outcome in this case is for 
Highway to pay the midway point between the engineers two valuations of £13,500 and 
£16,750. This means I think Highway should increase the total loss settlement it pays to 
£15,100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the total loss settlement it paid Mr C to £15,100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman