DRN-3997438
The complaint
Ms A complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly restricted and closed her accounts.
What happened
Ms A is the owner and director of a company, which Ill refer to as M. Both Ms A and M 
banked with TSB. Ms A held a current account and savings account with the bank. 
M obtained a Bounce Back Loan from TSB in May 2020. TSB undertook a review of its 
relationship with both the company and Ms A in her personal capacity in April 2021, in light 
of concerns as to Ms eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained and the way the 
funds were being used. The bank restricted Ms As access to her accounts while it carried 
out its review. 
TSB concluded that M hadnt been eligible for the loan it had obtained and thought it had 
misused the loan funds. The findings of the banks review also led it to end its relationship 
with Ms A as a personal customer. It closed Ms As accounts with immediate effect on 15 
June 2021. 
As TSB considered Ms application to have been fraudulent and the loan facility to have 
been misused, it registered information to this effect on the database administered by Cifas 
(a fraud prevention agency). These filings were recorded in Ms As own name, rather than 
that of M.
Ms A doesnt think TSB treated her fairly. She doesnt think that TSB had legitimate grounds 
to have taken the action that it did against M and therefore against her personally, including 
the registration of information with Cifas. And she says that TSB rejected a number of 
scheduled payments from her account while it was conducting the review, which was against 
its terms and conditions and that meant she incurred additional charges for the unpaid 
transactions.
This complaint only deals with the actions that TSB took in respect of Ms As personal 
accounts, with a separate complaint having been brought by M.
My provisional decision
I sent a provisional decision to both parties last month, explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. I said:
TSB was entitled to review its relationship with Ms A, and the terms and conditions of 
her accounts allowed the bank to restrict her use of them while this was completed. I 
think it was reasonable for the bank to do so in the circumstances here, primarily 
because Ive found  under the separate but related complaint from M about TSBs 
actions in respect of the companys accounts  that the bank had valid concerns as 
to Ms entitlement to the loan and use of the funds. 
I understand Ms As primary concern with the review and restriction of her personal 
accounts is that the bank declined to honour some scheduled payments (i.e. direct 
debits and standing orders) despite their being sufficient funds to cover them. She 
says that wasnt permitted under the terms and conditions. But I dont agree with that. 
The terms and conditions gave TSB the power to refuse to make a payment in 
certain circumstances. Given what I consider were legitimate concerns around the 
Bounce Back Loan, I think the bank was entitled to do so here.
Following its review, TSB decided to end its relationship with Ms A. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions of Ms As accounts 
allowed for their immediate closure, and I think it was reasonable for TSB to exercise 
that power in the circumstances here for the reasons Ive explained above.
Lastly, I understand that Ms A is unhappy with the information that TSB recorded 
against her name with Cifas. Im afraid that aspect of her complaint falls outside of 
our jurisdiction and so isnt something we can investigate. In the simplest terms, that 
is because:
Under the rules we operate (the DISP rules, which can be found online at 
(https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/), we can only consider 
complaints brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
To be an eligible complainant, a person must fall within at least one of the 
seven categories set out in DISP 2.7.3R. The only ones of relevance here are 
consumer, micro-enterprise and small business. 
Ms A doesnt meet the definition of a consumer for the purposes of this 
aspect of her complaint. Thats because our rules define a consumer as 
someone who is acting for purposes wholly or mainly outside [their] trade, 
business, craft or profession. As this aspect of the complaint arises out of Ms 
As affairs in her role as Ms company director, she wasnt acting outside of 
her trade, business, craft or profession.
Ms A doesnt meet the definition of a micro-enterprise or a small business as 
she isnt an enterprise. While she is Ms director, it is M that is the enterprise 
rather than Ms A herself.
Neither party responded, although Ms A  in her capacity as Ms director  did respond to 
reject the provisional decision I issued on the connected complaint brought on behalf of her 
company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Ive not reached a 
different decision on the related complaint brought by M, so it follows that I still think TSB 
was entitled to take the actions that it did in respect of Ms As accounts. 
With no new information or evidence for me to take into account, this final decision simply 
confirms my provisional findings as set out above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman