DRN-4073206
The complaint
Mrs C has Legal Expenses Insurance with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS LEI). This complaint concerns Mrs Cs unhappiness with DASs response 
regarding a claim. This complaint only covers the period until 14 August 2022.
What happened
The legal expenses insurance is attached to Mrs Cs home insurance, and this is provided 
by a different insurer. 
In 2020 Mrs Cs husband contacted DAS LEI seeking assistance regarding a tree on a 
neighbours property. Mr Cs husband says that he heard nothing from DAS LEI for two and 
a half years. He says he chased repeatedly and had also said he was too unwell to follow 
things up.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that from what she 
could see DAS LEI had written to Mrs Cs husband and explained that it needed her 
authority  as the policyholder - before it could proceed with the claim. It also asked for some 
other additional information. The investigator thought as DAS LEI didnt get a response it 
didnt do anything wrong when it didnt progress the claim and eventually closed it.
Mrs C would like an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear this complaint concerns the actions of DAS LEI only and also only 
concerns its actions prior to 14 August 2022. Like the investigator I think DAS LEI acted 
reasonably in requiring the policyholders consent before progressing the claim, thats what I 
would expect it to do. I havent seen any evidence that this authority was given to DAS LEI 
prior to 14 August 2022. So, I dont think it acted unreasonably in closing the complaint when 
it heard nothing from either Mrs C or her husband. I can understand their frustration if they 
chased other bodies but as I said this complaint is only about DAS LEI.
I understand Mrs C has now given her authority and I hope all will go smoothly from now on.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman