DRN-3179145
The complaint
Mrs C complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly gave 
her two running account credit facilities that she couldnt afford. Mrs C also thinks that 
whilst J D Williams treated her with some forbearance when she was in financial 
difficulties, it shouldnt have applied charges to her account at that time. 
 
What happened
On 19 December 2018, Mrs C applied for a credit account with J D Williams. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £125. The credit limit was increased five times by June 2019 
to £1000. 
On 22 December 2018, Mrs C applied for a second credit account with J D Williams. She 
was given an initial credit limit of £150. The credit limit was increased five times by May 
2019 to £1000. 
On 3 November 2020, Mrs C complained to J D Williams to say that the accounts 
shouldnt have been opened for her because they werent affordable and that J D 
Williams ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances 
before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint about the initial lending on each account 
or the increases to the credit limits be upheld. Our adjudicator did note that Mrs C 
contacted J D Williams on 7 November 2019 to inform them she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Our adjudicator thought that J D Williams ought not to have made any 
further charges on Mrs Cs account after that time.  
J D Williams has agreed to these findings. Mrs C didnt agree. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mrs Cs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mrs C has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. J D Williams has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that J D Williams failed to make adequate checks before providing Mrs C 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused J D 
Williams to think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because Mrs C told us she had an income that was regular, if modest, the initial 
credit limits were also modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit would 
have been relatively modest. Subsequently there were no underpayments or missed 
payments on the account until August 2019 at least, after the last credit limit increase. 
So, through all of the credit increases the accounts were well managed, the payments 
were mostly above the minimum amounts required (sometimes substantially so) and Mrs 
C was not using the full credit limits available to her. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led J D Williams to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs C was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mrs C was 
managing her account or what J D Williams could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Mrs C to know that I listened to all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this aspect of her complaint.
Mrs C contacted J D Williams on 7 November 2019 to inform them she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Our adjudicator thought that J D Williams ought not to have made any 
further charges on Mrs Cs account after that time. J D Williams has agreed to the 
adjudicators view of this and has offered to pay redress. Mrs C has raised no argument 
against this part of our adjudicators view. 
  
Having reviewed all of the evidence now available, I think that J D Williams ought to have 
continued to treat Mrs C with forbearance as they were aware that she was having financial 
difficulties and was in the process of setting up a debt management plan with a debt 
charity. So, I dont think J D Williams should have applied charges to the account after 7 
November 2019, and I think the account ought to have remained on hold until the 
repayment plan was put in place or Mrs C notified J D Williams of a change in 
circumstances. And in the absence of any argument about this, I dont feel I need to say 
any more about this. 
Putting things right
I dont think J D Williams shouldve applied any interest or charges from 7 
November 2017 as this is when they became aware that Mrs C was experiencing 
financial difficulties.I think the accounts shouldve been frozen at that time. To reflect this, J D Williams 
should remove all interest and charges (including BNPL interest) incurred on the 
account since 7 November 2019.
J D Williams should work out how much Mrs C would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment for interest and charges Mrs C made since 7 
November 2019 should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint about unaffordable lending. But I 
do uphold the complaint that J D Williams & Company Limited did not act reasonably with 
Mrs C when managing the account in respect of her financial difficulties.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman