DRN-2536147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Scottish Widows Limited (trading as Halifax Financial Services  
Halifax) mismanaged their mortgage endowment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage endowment that matured in May 2020. In September 
2020 they spoke with Halifax about the maturity value and how to receive the funds.
Mr and Mrs V were unhappy that the value of the endowment had decreased in its last few 
months and that Halifax hadnt taken steps to try and prevent this. They felt it had just left the 
funds to lose value rather than either making changes or contacting them about the loss, so 
they could make a decision about how to manage the investment. They questioned why they 
paid management fees if the fund wasnt being managed and also how much theyd paid in 
fees. They also complained about the maturity of the policy, as they didnt receive the letters 
sent about this and Halifax didnt follow these up.
When Mr and Mrs V did start the process to receive the funds a mistake was made with their 
account details, meaning the payment was delayed. Halifax didnt uphold their complaint 
overall, but did agree it had made mistakes in relation to the payment and awarded £100 
compensation and £40.20 in interest.
Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it  and 
said that he couldnt look at the management fees complaint point due to this previously 
being brought to our service. Mr and Mrs V disagreed with his assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Vs disappointment that the value of their endowment decreased. 
And accept that an option to prevent this possibly couldve been for Halifax to make changes 
to their investment to try and counteract this loss. However Halifax has explained that this 
isnt something it could do without Mr and Mrs Vs instruction. And it isnt something Halifax 
told them it would do, as it isnt a financial advisor so wouldnt start this conversation with 
them. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs V were aware when they took this policy out that investments 
fluctuate and that the value of the policy wasnt guaranteed. I accept their testimony that they 
didnt realise Halifax wouldnt make changes to their investment. But I also havent seen 
anything that shows they were told it would proactively do this. And, more importantly, 
theres no guarantee that if changes had been made to the investment, that it wouldve done 
better  it couldve done worse.
Mr and Mrs V have set out that as they paid management fees for the fund they wouldve 
expected Halifax to do more with the funds than it did  especially when the value started to 
decrease. But, as Mr and Mrs V have also seen, the value of their fund did change in the 
final six months due to fluctuations in the financial market. It increased between November 
2019 and January 2020 and then decreased again, then began increasing again in May 
2020 when it matured. Halifax made the decision not to provide financial advice or make any 
amendments to the fund. And it does seem that Mr and Mrs V assumed this is what the 
management fees were for, rather than Halifax falsely set out it would make substantial 
investment decisions for them. But also, in any event, as Ive set out above, even if changes 
were made, theres no guarantee this wouldve led to a better final sum than Mr and Mrs V 
received.
Mr and Mrs V have said that if theyd been made aware the fund was decreasing and Halifax 
wasnt acting, then they couldve done something themselves. Theyre unhappy Halifax 
didnt contact them with more regular updates about the value of their endowment, 
especially towards maturity when the value began to decrease. There are certain letters 
Halifax did need to send to keep Mr and Mrs V updated, but this doesnt include monthly 
values towards the end of the policy. I can understand why this wouldve been helpful for 
Mr and Mrs V, but this isnt something Halifax had to do or told them it would do. It was for 
them to contact Halifax if they wanted more information than it had provided.
Halifax has explained it spoke to Mr V about the policy in March 2020 and told him the value 
could fluctuate at this time. Mr V has told us that while he did speak to Halifax at this time, he 
didnt enquire about the current value of his policy on this call and instead only enquired 
about previous values. So this meant he wasnt aware the value of the fund was decreasing.
Mr and Mrs V have suggested they wouldve been much more proactive with managing the 
fund in the last few months if theyd known how Halifax was managing it. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest Halifax misled him about how it was managing the fund  or that it 
manged it negligently. And Mr V had an opportunity to check in on the fund himself in March 
and yet didnt  he didnt enquire about the fund until several months after it had matured, 
when no changes could be made.
Halifax told Mr V his fund value wasnt guaranteed before maturity in March 2020, but he 
didnt take any steps to look into his current endowment value or its management at that 
time. So while his argument is that Halifax couldve done more, I also think he had an 
opportunity to mitigate this perceived loss, but he didnt act on it. The information I hold 
doesnt suggest Halifax did something wrong in relation to managing this endowment. And in 
relation to this case, it does seem that Mr and Mrs Vs complaint is being made with a level 
of hindsight, as its based on how the endowment did then go on to perform when left in the 
existing fund  which neither party wouldve known back in February/March 2020.
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy that Halifax didnt chase them up or contact them via email when 
they didnt reply to its letters from April and May 2020 about the policy maturing. I appreciate 
that Halifax couldve contacted them in the way theyve set out. But I would only uphold their 
complaint if Halifax had done something wrong. And I cant say that it has here. In the same 
respect as the maturity value covered above, Halifax has a large number of customers and 
set times when it contacts them. It has sent the information it needed to at the right times 
and the vast majority of correctly addressed post is delivered. Mr and Mrs V also have 
responsibility for their account. So while Halifax couldve done more to chase them, it didnt 
have to. And I cant uphold their complaint because Halifax didnt do more than was required 
of it.Mr and Mrs V have also complained about the management fees that were applied to their 
mortgage endowment. Mr V says this complaint hasnt been investigated by Halifax. But he 
brought this complaint point to our service in May 2020, under a different complaint 
reference. So while Mr and Mrs V may not be happy with how Halifax has dealt with this 
complaint, our service has already given its response on this. So I wont be commenting on it 
further.
Mr and Mrs V did receive some compensation from Halifax due to delays in paying the funds 
to their account. Mr Vs request for a decision didnt suggest he disagreed with this part of 
the complaint resolution. But for completeness, I have reviewed what happened and the 
compensation awarded. And I am satisfied that the amount is fair given the error Halifax 
made and the delay Mr and Mrs V experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman