DRN-3053641
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr M complain Bank of Scotland plc refused to refund mortgage interest 
payments the Department of Work and Pensions made when Mrs B and Mr M had agreed a 
payment deferral during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr M agreed with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) to put their mortgage payments on 
hold between April and September 2020 in line with government guidelines about mortgage 
payment deferrals during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs B and Mrs Ms mortgage interest is paid partly through contributions from the 
Department of Work and Pensions (DWP). The DWP payments continued despite the 
payment deferral.
BoS paid back the DWP payments made for April, May and June to Mrs B and Mr M. They 
also wanted BoS to refund the DWP payments for the other three months of the payment 
deferral period. Mrs B and Mr M were concerned about the interest theyd owe the DWP on 
those sums if they werent paid back. They asked BoS to refund the money to them so they 
could pay it back to the DWP.
BoS explained to Mrs B and Mr M theyd refunded the initial payments by mistake and 
offered Mrs B and Mr M £300 compensation for their error and initially raising their 
expectations theyd refund the later payments too. Mrs B and Mr B werent happy with that. 
Our investigator who looked into Mrs B and Mr Ms complaint didnt think BoS had to repay 
the later DWP payments and said BoSs offer of compensation for the mistake theyd made 
was fair. Since Mrs B and Mr M didnt accept what our investigator said, their complaints 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial difficulties Mrs B and Mr M have had. And I can 
understand theyre concerned about interest building up on the mortgage interest payments 
the DWP have made to help them. But, as Ill explain, I dont think BoS are wrong in refusing 
to refund them.
Mr M asked BoS to refund the payments for the second three months of the payment 
deferral period at around the end of November 2020. In responding to Mrs B and Mr Ms 
complaint, BoS explained:
(1) Theyd refunded the DWP payments made for April, May and June 2020 by mistake 
and apologised for their error.
(2) Since Mrs B and Mr M hadnt contributed to the overpayments, they couldnt refund 
the payments.
(3) Theyd need a letter from the DWP confirming they were happy for BoS to refund the 
money to Mrs B and Mr M direct. They said this was because the reason for the 
DWP making the payments was to help them in paying their mortgage, not to make 
money available for their personal use.
I think Bank of Scotland could have explained how theyd deal with requests for refunds of 
DWP payments a little more clearly. 
I dont think, strictly speaking there was an overpayment here. Mrs B and Mr M 
werent making any payments during the payment deferral period  only the DWP 
was - and the full contractual monthly payments (CMP) due under the mortgage 
werent being made but still fell due. BoS would only refund an overpayment where 
the CMP had been met. 
BoS would refund a payment to the DWP where the DWP had paid it in error but the 
DWP had to request that in writing. I havent seen any evidence the DWP made an 
error in making payments or that they wrote asking for a refund.
BoS wouldnt refund a DWP payment where the account would end up in arrears. 
Mrs B and Mr Ms account was already incurring arrears  the payment deferral just 
delayed the date when payment of the CMP had to be made. Refunding the DWP 
payments Mrs B and Mr M were asking for would have added to those arrears and 
increased what they owed BoS.
Broadly, the DWP provides help to borrowers who are finding it difficult to pay their 
mortgages by paying towards the interest due on those mortgages. The money is paid as a 
loan secured over the borrowers property, which the borrower has to repay with interest 
when they sell the property. 
I can understand why Mrs B and Mr M may think BoSs position in refusing to refund the 
DWP payments is unfair when there was a payment deferral in place, BoS had already 
refunded the earlier payments and Mrs B and Mr M were accruing interest on the DWP loan. 
But I dont think it is. 
Even though BoS agreed a payment deferral, interest continued to be charged on the 
mortgage and the missed CMP had to be made up by Mrs B and Mr M once the deferral 
period came to an end. If the DWP payments hadnt been made, Mrs B and Mr Ms arrears 
would have been higher, and they would have owed more interest on the mortgage as a 
result. Because of that, I dont think theyve lost out financially overall, even though they will 
have to pay interest on the DWP loan when the property is sold. 
I think it was fair for BoS to offer Mrs B and Mr M compensation for the mistake they made in 
paying back the DWP payments for April, May and June and the confusion they caused 
when they said at first theyd arrange a refund for the other three months and then declined 
to do so. I think the compensation they offered of £300 fairly reflects the disappointment that 
caused Mrs B and Mr M. I dont think BoS needs to anything more to put things right, so I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand BoS sent Mrs B and Mr M a cheque for the compensation last year. So, Id just 
note finally that if Mrs B and Mr M didnt cash the cheque at the time, BoS may need to send 
them a replacement if it has expired. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman