DRN-4309998
Complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (Barclays PF)) unfairly entered into a conditional sale agreement with him. Hes 
said that the monthly payments to this agreement were unaffordable and this left him 
struggling to make them. 
Background
In October 2017, Barclays PF provided Mr H with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £10,000.00. Mr H didnt pay a deposit and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Barclays PF, over a 60-month term, for the entire £10,000.00. 
The loan had interest, fees and charges of £4,407.03 (made up of a credit facility fee of £149 
a completion fee of £199 and interest of £4,059.60). This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £14,407.03 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £236.81 and a final 
instalment of £435.81.
Mr H complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Barclays PF didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed 
that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Barclays 
PF had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Barclays PF needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Barclays PF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr H before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Barclays PF says it agreed to this application after Mr H provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr H which showed his existing 
borrowing levels were well maintained and that he hadnt had obvious difficulties with credit 
such as defaults or county court judgments against him. And when the repayments to Mr Hs 
existing commitments plus an amount for Mr Hs living expenses were deducted from his 
monthly income the repayments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr H says he was already struggling with his existing commitments and 
had payday loans, which meant that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable and 
there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr H and Barclays PF have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, Im not entirely persuaded that 
the checks Barclays PF carried out did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it 
was reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Hs living costs given the amount being 
borrowed, the total amount Mr H had to repay and the amount of the monthly payment Mr H 
had to make. But I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Hs actual living costs 
would have made a difference to Barclays PFs decision to lend. 
As Barclays PF didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Barclays PF is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from      
Mr H. What I need to think about here is what did Barclays PF need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Hs actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search)?. 
There are a number of ways for a lender to find this information out and this doesnt mean 
that Barclays PF had to obtain copies of Mr Hs bank statements and carry out a forensic line 
by line analysis of them. The information Mr H has provided does appear to show that when 
his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from 
his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Hs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. For example, I know that Mr H says that he 
had payday loans. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
I dont think that Barclays PF could possibly be expected to have known about Mr Hs 
payday loans given that they didnt show up in the credit searches. In any event, I dont think 
having a couple of payday loans in itself automatically means that a lender shouldnt lend to 
a prospective borrower. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Barclays PFs 
checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr H did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped Barclays 
PF from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. So Im satisfied that 
Barclays PF didnt act unfairly towards Mr H when it agreed to provide the funds.As this is the case, I dont think that Barclays PF acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr H. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman