DRN-1418787
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) in 2004. 
In considering the complaint Nationwide said that they thought they hadnt mis-sold the PPI. 
They also said that the premiums for the policy were free for the first 12 months and that Mr 
and Mrs R had cancelled the PPI after paying premiums for only several months. 
Nationwide refunded the premiums Mr and Mrs R paid plus interest. Mr and Mrs R were not 
satisfied and brought the complaint to us. 
Mr and Mrs R were also sold some life cover at the same time. That complaint is being 
considered separately to this complaint, which is just about the PPI. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. In particular, 
our adjudicator noted that in returning the premiums paid and adding interest to them, 
Nationwide had already made the same award that we would have made had we upheld the 
complaint - so Mr and Mrs R hadnt lost out.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about PPI should be upheld, Id 
expect any compensation to put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
For cases like this,  in which the PPI was paid by a regular premium to go with a mortgage, 
the correct redress would be the return of the premiums paid plus interest. In this case, it is 
not in dispute that Nationwide has repaid the amount that Mr and Mrs R paid for the policy 
plus interest. This means that Mr and Mrs R havent lost out financially.  
If I decided that the complaint should be upheld, I would not have made an award that is 
larger than the one that Nationwide has already made. 
As Mr and Mrs R havent lost out financially because of the sale of the policy, it follows that I 
dont uphold their complaint and I dont make an award.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman