DRN-2978283
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) handled a chargeback request for a 
purchase he made on his debit card.
What happened
Mr B booked a package holiday through a travel agent. The package cost
£699 and included accommodation, train tickets and attraction tickets.
The travel agent went into liquidation prior to Mr Bs holiday taking 
place. It advised Mr B to contact ABTA or his card issuer to reclaim 
his money.
Mr B contacted BoS on 2 October 2019 to request a chargeback and says 
he was told hed be refunded in early December 2019. He says BoS didnt 
tell him he needed to provide further information at this stage. BoS agrees 
it didnt request any evidence until 23 December 2019 when it asked for 
the original booking confirmation. But it denied ever guaranteeing Mr B 
would receive a refund.
Mr B supplied various documents (including emails and screenshots) to 
support what happened, but he didnt provide the original booking 
confirmation.
BoS said the information was insufficient to allow it to start the chargeback 
process as it hadnt seen evidence of the original booking  and it needed 
to know when the holiday was due to take place and a breakdown of the 
cost of it.
BoS also told Mr B VISA allows it 120 days from the date of the expected 
service to assist with a dispute. It said again, if Mr B could provide the 
original booking confirmation, it would reconsider it. But this wasnt 
supplied in time.
Mr B complained and was also unhappy with the delays and service hes 
experienced. BoS accepted that it should have got back to him sooner and 
has paid £150 compensation.
Our investigator initially said Mr B hadnt provided enough information to 
allow BoS to start the chargeback request. But she subsequently changed 
her opinionand recommended BoS pay Mr B £699.
BoS didnt agree. It said the evidence was inconclusive and so, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
In my first provisional decision, I said I thought it was reasonable for BoS 
to request the original booking confirmation from Mr B before starting the 
chargeback process. I said BoS therefore, didnt need to refund the cost 
of Mr Bs holiday.
I thought £150 compensation offered by BoS sufficiently reflected the 
difficulties Mr B had experienced as a result of BoS communication.
Mr B replied to my provisional decision. He disagreed with my findings and 
said BoS had told him hed be refunded.
BoS agreed with my provisional decision and said its subsequent offer to 
refund Mr B was made in error. It provided evidence that it had paid Mr B 
£150 compensation.
I reviewed the case again and shared my thoughts with BoS as to why I 
think this case should instead be upheld.
In summary, I explained that supplying the original booking confirmation 
wasnt a pre-requisite of the VISA rules and so I didnt think it was 
reasonable for BoS to insist on this information before starting the 
chargeback process, when it had enough information to start the 
chargeback process.
I was satisfied that had it done so the chargeback would have likely 
succeeded. I said BoS needed to refund Mr B the cost of his holiday.
BoS supplied evidence of the compensation being paid to Mr B and so I 
was satisfied hed received this payment.
BoS didnt reply to my email and so Im putting my findings in this 
second provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently 
minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
A dispute over a payment made using a debit card can sometimes be resolved 
under the relevant chargeback scheme rules. These rules are set by the card 
provider  in this case VISA. VISA has an agreement with the bank as to how its 
cards are used, and this covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. 
The rules are strict, and BoS doesnt have any power to change them.
Its important to explain that Im not considering whether Mr B got the service 
(holiday) he paid for. What Im concerned with is whether BoS considered his 
request fairly under the relevant chargeback scheme rules.
BoS has said the applicable chargeback category in this case is Dispute condition 
13.1: Merchandise / Services not received. Under this rule, in order to start a 
chargeback request, BoS needs to see that the services were not provided by the 
expected date/time. And its entitled to ask for evidence to support this. BoS didnt 
make a chargeback request because it said it hadnt been provided with enough 
evidence.
So, the issue to be decided is whether BoS had enough information to 
start the chargeback request in the timeframe its afforded under the rules 
set by VISA.
Mr B contacted BoS in early October 2019 to request a chargeback. In an 
email dated 23 December 2019, BoS asked Mr B to provide the original 
booking confirmation. It seems Mr B had difficulty locating this information at 
the time and BoS said it couldnt proceed without it.Having looked at the VISA rules, they dont state that an original booking 
confirmation has to be provided. Had, as BoS suggested, VISA asked for the 
original booking confirmation, it could have requested this from Mr B and 
provided this to VISA in the 30-day timeframe in which additional information 
can be provided. I dont think the possibility of VISA asking for this was 
sufficient reason not to start the process.
Furthermore, although BoS didnt have the original booking confirmation it did 
know: the dates of travel; the transaction details; that Mr B had confirmation 
from ABTA that hed been referred to his card issuer; that hed booked a 
replacement holiday at the suppliers request  along with the public 
knowledge of the suppliers liquation. So, Im persuaded BoS had enough 
information to start the chargeback process and that there was a reasonable 
prospect of success.
BoS has raised concerns about Mr Bs holiday being available via another holiday 
supplier. But Mr B received an email from ABTA informing him he should contact his 
card issuer for a refund. Im aware the third-party holiday supplier wasnt able to 
rescue all bookings  and Im persuaded that had BoS attempted the chargeback 
request, this information would have come to light. And so, based on the available 
evidence, I think its unlikely VISA would have defended it.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied BoS had enough information to 
start the chargeback process and that had it done so, it had reasonable 
prospects of being successful. BoS should therefore act as though the 
chargeback was a valid one and refund Mr B.
BoS has provided evidence which shows it paid Mr B £150 compensation and so I 
wont be asking it to pay this.
BoS didnt provide any further comment to my provisional decision. Mr B responded 
and asked when the compensation was paid to him  statements showing the date of 
payment have been suppleid to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the same reasons set out in my provisional 
decision of 12 August 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland must:
- Pay Mr B £699, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr B 
requested the chargeback until the date it makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman