DRN-4309321
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc regarding the service 
he received when he had an accident.
What happened
Mr K was involved in an accident on 1 December 2022. AXA sent an engineer to assess the 
damage on 19 December 2022. The engineers report said damage had been 
exaggerated. AXA began looking into that. But also looking into damage which had 
occurred in August 2022, in another incident, following which it had found the vehicle was a 
total loss, settling the claim with Mr K and returning the vehicle to him as salvage.
AXAs engineer noted an error in his report. He had meant to say damage was 
exacerbated, rather than exaggerated. AXAs enquiries into the pre-existing condition of 
the vehicle continued. But it noted its enquiries were taking too long and Mr K had become 
frustrated. He felt he wasnt getting promised call backs, that no progress was being made 
with his claim and that this all might be because the engineer had discriminated against him. 
AXA responded to Mr Ks complaint on 7 February 2023. It noted that it had initially been 
arranged for Mr K to take his vehicle to an approved garage, but then, when that hadnt been 
possible, it had arranged an engineers visit. It was satisfied there had not been any 
discrimination but accepted an error had been made in the report. It noted a discussion 
about whether or not Mr K should have obtained a new MOT following the total loss claim 
had caused upset. It acknowledged that it was still considering the claim, which was taking 
longer than expected. It said, given all the upset caused including by it not responding to his 
complaint as quickly as it felt it couldve done, it would pay Mr K £225 compensation. 
Mr K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Whilst his complaint was 
progressing, Mr K said his premium had gone up and he was unhappy with a claim 
settlement AXA had put forward. Our Investigator explained that, in this complaint, we could 
only look at what had happened regarding the poor service complaint AXA had answered in 
February 2023.
Regarding Mr Ks complaint about poor service, our Investigator felt AXA had failed Mr K in 
some respects. But he felt the £225 compensation was fair and reasonable to a make up for 
that. So he wasnt minded to make it pay anything more.
Mr K said he felt hed been unfairly targeted, causing him/his claim to be unfairly referred to 
the fraud team. He said he feels slandered and £225 was not enough to make up for that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see that AXA failed Mr K here. But, with regret for any further upset 
this may cause Mr K, I dont intend to make AXA pay anything more. 
I can see this has been a difficult time for Mr K. And I absolutely understand the offence he 
was caused when he was incorrectly accused of exaggerating the claim. I can see though 
how this error came about  it seems to have been a typing/auto correct error that wasnt 
picked up before the report was submitted. I havent seen anything to make me think it was 
done deliberately for negative reasons by the engineer on account of discrimination. Im 
mindful that AXAs file shows that although a referral to its fraud team was initiated, as soon 
as the report was fully reviewed, the wording was quickly identified as an error. AXA 
accepted that Mr K had not acted fraudulently. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ks vehicle had suffered previous damage, on the same side as had then 
been impacted in the accident. And when AXA had returned the vehicle to Mr K following the 
previous incident and settlement it had expected him to complete repairs. I can see that AXA 
needed to look into this and that further upset was then caused to Mr K by its querying the 
need for an MOT and because further delays in making its claim decision occurred.
During the course of the claim, I can see that Mr K has been frustrated during some phone 
calls. Which is understandable. I can see that some calls were dropped and that Mr K did 
have to keep chasing things. I do see that some of AXAs call handlers tried to take 
ownership at times and improve Mr Ks claim journey. Also that sometimes handlers did try 
to call Mr K back. But, overall, I think Mr K is correct that he received a less than adequate 
service. 
The incident Mr K was involved in occurred on 1 December 2022. His car wasnt initially 
assessed by AXA until 19 December 2022. But that delay doesnt seem to have been 
caused by any fault of it. It then took a few weeks for the report to be received and corrected. 
Partly I think because the holiday season impacted things. If no correction had been needed 
I still think the holiday season would have had an impact because, reasonably, a review of 
the pre-existing damage would still have been needed. I think the holiday season  during 
which time I note AXAs engineer was on leave  would always have impacted that. And it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable for those enquiries to take a couple of weeks. So, in the 
period I am considering things to, up until 7 February 2023, I think there was likely only a few 
weeks of delay caused by AXA. 
In summary then, AXA caused a few weeks of delay, some significant upset to Mr K with the 
incorrect report, but which was quickly corrected, which was all peppered with poor 
telephone communication. Im satisfied that £200 compensation, £225 taking into account 
AXAs admitted delay in replying to the complaint, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here. Its in line with our guidance and other awards made by this service in 
similar circumstances. Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require AXA to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
I find that AXAs compensation fairly and reasonably makes up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failings. As such I dont make any award against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman