DRN-4249224
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has treated her unfairly 
about a chargeback, her banking application on her phone and the customer service it has 
provided.
What happened
Between late 2021 and August 2022 Mrs S complained to Virgin about a series of issues 
shed encountered. This included not being able to use her banking application on her 
phone, a transaction for over £500 and Virgins customer service in and around these 
issues.
Virgin looked into the matter and noted that regarding the banking application issue (the 
App) Mrs S had confirmed to it that she was getting a notification that the App wouldnt work 
on a modified phone and that was in the terms and conditions. Virgin went on to suggest 
ways it could help on this issue. With regard to the chargeback on a transaction of over £500 
it noted that Mrs S had been refunded in full in May 2022. And overall it felt it had treated 
Mrs S fairly and it doesnt think it could do any more for Mrs S.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Virgin had acted unfairly. Mrs S didnt agree. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transaction over £500 and its chargeback 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs S did 
here, Virgin (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Virgin couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs S didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given that Mrs S said she did make the payment.
The chargeback process is run by the card scheme and not Virgin. The scheme has set out 
rules for how the dispute progresses allowing Virgin and the merchant time to respond to 
each other as evidence is provided and considered.
Mrs S says it should have moved quicker. But Ive not seen that Virgin did anything wrong. I 
note Mrs S wrote to Virgin to chase the matter and a couple of days later she received a full 
refund. Having considered what happened here the chargeback process proceeded in line 
with my expectations based on the scheme rules and timelines therein. Its clear Mrs S feels 
that this process should be a lot quicker. Nevertheless I see no failing on Virgins part here 
and she was fully refunded in what I consider a timely manner considering the 
circumstances.
The banking App
Mrs S complained about not being able to use the App and says she got a message about 
using a modified phone. Virgin confirmed that use of such phones is against its terms and 
conditions. Mrs S says her phone hasnt been modified. I can see Virgin offered Mrs S 
assistance in dealing with the matter and that she doesnt want to be called and doesnt wish 
to visit a branch, which I can understand given her reasons that shes pointed towards. 
However Virgin has offered reasonable solutions to this issue. Furthermore its App is a part 
of its commercial offering, and it is for Virgin to provide it in line with its approach to such 
matters. So having considered its offers of how to help and that its system identified the 
issue to be with Mrs S phone I think it has treated Mrs S fairly.
Other matters
Mrs S has complained that Virgin has grouped together her issues when responding to her 
and that shes found that confusing. It is for Virgin to comply with its obligations as it sees fit 
in relation to complaint handling. And bearing in mind the disparate nature of the issues that 
Mrs S has raised Im not persuaded Virgin has treated Mrs S unfairly by dealing with them 
together. 
It is clear Mrs S thinks Virgins customer service could have been better. And its clear that 
Virgin didnt respond very promptly. But for me to uphold a complaint I need to be persuaded 
that Mrs S has lost out because of failings by Virgin that it hasnt remedied any such issues. 
Ive considered everything thats happened here, and Im not persuaded that Virgin has 
treated Mrs S unfairly. I can see it has apologised appropriately and that Mrs S got her 
money back and had answers to her issues, albeit not as quickly as Mrs S would like. But 
Virgin doesnt have to do anymore. 
Mrs S has suggested how Virgin dealt with her complaint was a deliberate attempt to 
manipulate its complaint data. Bearing in mind it has a duty to deal with matters efficiently 
and no other persuasive evidence on this point I dont think Mrs S argument is persuasive. I 
think it is more likely that Virgin was trying to be efficient and helpful.
Mrs S has suggested her distress and inconvenience hasnt been appropriately considered. 
However for me to hold Virgin responsible for this I have to be persuaded that it did 
something sufficiently wrong and that such distress or inconvenience is a direct consequence of this. And having considered the matter Im not persuaded that Virgin needs 
to do anymore. As a consequence Mrs S complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money. It has nothing further to do in this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman