DRN-1418752
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a Personal Reserve Account. 
What happened
Mr F took out the PPI in 1997 when he applied for the account by filling out a form.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr F says he thought hed taken out the PPI over the phone. He originally said that the 
policy had not been discussed and that he was unaware that it had been applied to the 
account. In response to the adjudicators view, Mr F has then said that the adjudicator has 
failed to understand the hard sell and what it is like to be led to feel that it would be 
injudicious not to buy it.
However, looking at the evidence, neither of the above two scenarios apply. Ive seen a copy 
of the application form that Mr F completed. It is a postal application that he would have filled 
in at home and then returned by post. There is a separate section on the form for PPI which 
provides a brief description of the benefits and cost of the policy. There is a box in that 
section to tick if you wish to request PPI. Mr F has ticked the box and then printed his name 
beneath as the person to be insured. He could have left the box blank if he hadnt wanted 
the policy.
I have no dobut that Mr F has provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Fs memory has faded. From 
the layout and wording of the form, I consider that Mr F would have known that he had a 
choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Allianz didnt advise Mr F to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide Mr F with enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about buying the PPI.I think Mr F must have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont consider he 
would have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr F would have received generous sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay. And Mr F knew what his own sick pay would have been 
at the time  so this is one of the things that he would have had to weigh up in his own mind 
when deciding whether or not the policy was right for him. And Mr F didnt have any other 
means, such as available savings to fall back on. Mr F has mentioned having health 
insurance, but that provided medical care and so is a different type of cover than PPI. So 
overall I consider that Mr F had a need for the cover and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Allianz didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr F wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr F had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So Mr F is no 
worse off as a result of anything Allianz may have done wrong, so theres nothing Allianz 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman