DRN-1772402
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has made errors when reporting his account 
balance. He also complains that his bank transfer was blocked by Barclays fraud team, and 
that he received poor customer service.
What happened
Mr A has a bank account with Barclays. Between June 2019 and September 2019, Mr A 
made numerous transactions in his account. He logged on to see his account online and 
saw that he was thousands of pounds overdrawn which he knew was an error. He reported 
this error to Barclays and explained how this had caused him distress as it could have 
resulted in high charges.
In the same time period, Mr As transaction to his savings account was blocked by Barclays 
fraud department. He explained he had to then spend time calling Barclays and doesnt feel 
it should have been blocked. He also says this caused a delay in his funds reaching the 
intended account.
Mr A tried to log a complaint using the online messaging service but was later told this hadnt 
worked. He then was told over the phone that a complaint couldnt be logged and spent over 
an hour trying to speak to a manager to get the complaint logged.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She explained that Barclays hadnt made an 
error relating to the account balance. She explained that debit transactions are completed 
before credit transactions which is why the statement shows a debit amount. However, no 
charges were made, and it didnt affect Mr As credit file because by the end of each working 
day, there was a credit balance.
The investigator also explained that fraud procedures are in place to protect consumers 
money. And that Barclays followed its processes when Mr A confirmed the transaction was 
correct.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view. He explained that he felt his transaction 
shouldnt have been blocked because it clearly wasnt fraudulent. He also said that Barclays 
made a clear error because the definition of a banking error is a situation in which a bank 
incorrectly states the amount of money in an account. And as his account showed he was 
overdrawn when he wasnt, its clear an error has been made. Mr A said hed like the 
maximum amount of compensation this service can award.
Mr A also raised some hypothetical situations relating to whether the Financial Ombudsman 
Service supports the way that Barclays runs its business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr A has explained to us in detail why he believes the bank has made an error. He has also 
provided us with a number of comments relating to how Barclays operates. Ive taken 
account of all his comments when reaching my decision but may not directly answer each 
individual comment. Ive also noted that Mr A wanted to speak to an ombudsman before they 
reached their findings. However, I can see theres enough evidence on the file for me to 
make my decision without the need for further discussion.
Ive also seen that Mr A raises questions about whether the Financial Ombudsman Service 
supports how Barclays runs its business. Its not the role of this service to tell a business 
how to operate. This is the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. This 
service looks into whether something has gone wrong in an individual complaint and, if so, 
how to put this right.
When looking at the issues in Mr As complaint, I can see the main problems are that his 
statements show he was overdrawn when he wasnt and that a large payment was blocked 
by Barclays fraud team. Ive addressed these points separately below. Ive also addressed 
the customer service that Mr A received from Barclays.
Incorrect statement balances
Mr A has provided us with statements and screenshots showing that on numerous occasions 
his account balance was overdrawn by thousands of pounds. What the statements also 
show is that by the end of the same day, the account is in credit. So, by the end of each 
working day, Mr A wasnt overdrawn.
Barclays explained to Mr A in both 2018, and in its final response letter in 2019, that its 
systems always process debit transactions before credit transactions. This means that any 
money due to be taken out of the account that day will happen before any money is 
supposed to go in. In some situations, and on the days Mr A refers to, this means that once 
all the debit transactions have taken place, there is a debit amount on the account. In effect, 
the account is minus an amount of money. After the debit transactions take place, the 
system processes credits into the account. So, the money due in then starts to get 
processed. At the end of each day that Mr A refers to, the system has worked exactly like 
that. So, the credits due into the account have been processed and by the end of each day 
Mr A wasnt overdrawn.
Mr A believes that Barclays has made an error in displaying a negative balance in his 
account. And Mr A has provided what a definition of a banking error is. However, I dont think 
Barclays did show an incorrect balance in his account. I think it showed a real-time status of 
Mr As account as its systems were processing the debits and then the credits into the 
account on the same day. And I think it had already explained to Mr A that this is how the 
system works. So, I dont think Barclays has made an error here. Barclays looks at account 
balances at the end of the day to see if accounts are overdrawn, after all transactions have 
been completed. Mr A was never recorded as being overdrawn because after his credit 
transactions had been processed, his account had a positive balance again. 
As Ive explained, its not for this service to comment on how a business operates. But I can 
see that Barclays has provided feedback to the digital team on how its systems work and 
displays balances. 
Fraud processes
All banks will have set processes in place to protect consumers money. This means that 
some transactions may be blocked until Barclays is satisfied that the transaction is correct 
and has been verified by the account holder. I can see this is what happened with Mr As transaction that was initially blocked. Our investigator explained that Barclays will have these 
systems in place to protect Mr As money, but it doesnt need to give Mr A the reason this 
particular transaction was blocked. Banks are entitled to keep this information sensitive to 
ensure that its processes continue to protect its customers.
When Mr A verified that the transaction was correct, Barclays released the funds and 
followed its correct processes. Sometimes there are delays that occur when funds are 
moving from one account to another, but Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt made an error 
here. Its system blocked the transaction and followed the correct process to notify Mr A, and 
release the funds as soon as the transaction was verified. So, Im not upholding this aspect 
of the complaint.
Customer service
I can see that Mr A had some problems registering a complaint with Barclays. This was 
acknowledged and Mr A was paid £50 for this. I think this is reasonable when considering 
the inconvenience that this caused. Some of his other complaint points in relation to poor 
service relate to how Barclays then handled the complaint. Our investigator explained that 
complaint handling isnt an activity that falls within our remit. So, it wasnt something she was 
going to investigate and Ive also not commented on it.
To summarise, Im not upholding this complaint. Barclays couldve logged Mr As complaint 
sooner but it has compensated him fairly for this. But I dont think it has made an error in 
displaying the real-time status of his account balance as transactions were being processed. 
Nor do I think it has made an error when following its security processes relating to fraud.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman