DRN-3850902
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Digney Grant Ltd (DGL) advised them to invest in a fund but 
didnt make them aware that it could be withdrawn. Theyre also unhappy with the time taken 
to release the proceeds from the investment.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr and Mrs R sought investment advice from DGL in 2014 and were advised to 
invest £100,000 in a MetLife Protected Growth Bond. In October 2020 MetLife issued 
a notification that they were closing their range of protected growth funds and gave 
investors 60 days notice before funds would be closed, and any money held 
transferred to MetLifes default cash fund. DGL contacted Mr and Mrs R shortly after 
to discuss their options and a decision was made to encash the bond and move the 
funds to a suitable alternative.
The bond was encashed in December 2020. However, due to issues with the original 
policy documents not being found and also ID/address verification, Mr and Mrs R 
didnt receive the funds until February 2021. They complained to DGL about not 
being advised that the fund theyd invested in could be closed and also about the 
delay in releasing the funds. DGL didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs R 
asked us to look into the matter. 
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt think DGL had 
done anything wrong. In summary, he thought the advice to invest in the bond was 
suitable and MetLifes decision couldnt have been foreseen by DGL. He agreed that 
the release of the funds had been delayed but thought that DGL were reliant on 
MetLife to advise what was required to release the funds and this wasnt confirmed 
until early January 2021.
He thought that whilst DGL could have asked Mr and Mrs R to send address and ID 
documents sooner, MetLife would still have needed a separate Lost Policy 
Declaration document. There was also a significant delay when Mr and Mrs R were 
impacted by Covid-19 which was outside of their control  but wasnt the fault of 
DGL. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with his findings and as there was no agreement the 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld for broadly the same reasons 
as the investigator. 
Ive firstly considered the suitability of DGLs recommendation to Mr and Mrs R. Having done 
so, Im satisfied that it was suitable for their circumstances at the time and didnt expose 
them to too much risk. Mr and Mrs R were first time investors and were looking for a low-risk 
investment which provided capital protection. 
From what Ive seen the recommendation was affordable, they had no liabilities, were left 
with an emergency cash reserve and had a healthy monthly net disposable income of 
c.£2100. Taking everything into account, I think the recommended investment met their 
requirements and I cant fairly say that DGLs advice was unsuitable.
I appreciate the point theyve made that they werent specifically made aware that the 
underlying funds could be closed by MetLife at any point, and if theyd known this then they 
wouldnt have invested in the bond. However, this is true of any investment, and I think that 
even if Mr and Mrs R had been made aware of this at the time of the recommendation, its 
more likely than not that they would have still gone ahead with the investment. 
I say this because the only other alternative would have been to invest in a deposit-based 
product. But this was specifically discounted by Mr and Mrs R - the fact find completed in 
2014 notes that they wanted an investment with capital protection that provided the 
opportunity to provide capital growth higher than that offered by a deposit account. 
Therefore, I dont think DGL need to do anything to resolve this aspect of Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint.
Ive also considered what happened after MetLife made DGL aware of the changes they 
were making. The available evidence shows that DGL received confirmation of the fund 
closure on 9 October 2020. They met with Mr R on 14 October to discuss his options and 
decided to encash the bond. The encashment forms were received on 11 November and 
sent to Mr and Mrs R and the forms were returned on 19 November and sent to MetLife.
On 4 January 2021 MetLife contacted DGL and said that a lost policy document was 
required along with ID and address verification. DGL provided Mr R with the forms on 4 
January, but the lost policy document wasnt returned until 20 January as Mr and Mrs R 
were impacted by illness and unable to leave their house. The ID and address verification 
documents werent provided by Mr and Mrs R until 3 February and DGL forwarded them to 
MetLife that same day. The bond was then encashed on 11 February. 
DGL have accepted that they should have sent ID and address verification with the original 
encashment form. But given that MetLife would still have required the lost policy document, 
Im not persuaded that DGLs error disadvantaged Mr and Mrs R. I can also see that DGL 
tried to speed up the process by offering to collect documents from Mr and Mrs Rs house 
when they were unwell and chased them for the verification documents in order to speed up 
the process. Taking everything into account, I dont think DGLs actions caused Mr and Mrs 
R to suffer a loss and while I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs R, I 
wont be asking DGL to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 Marc Purnell
Ombudsman