DRN-3559057
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that she attempted to open a savings account with Bank of Scotland 
(trading as Halifax), and this was initially unsuccessful. 
What happened
Ms D has explained that on 20 December 2021 she visited a Halifax branch, and explained 
to the front desk that she wanted to open a savings account. At this point, Ms D was told she 
needed to phone Halifax in order to do this. So, Ms D attempted to call Halifax as directed. 
But was unable to get through to anyone to open an account.
Ms D said she also tried to open the account online. But this was unsuccessful too. Ms D 
said this was because she needed to put her address into the application  but her address 
wasnt available for selection on the website. So, she was unable to proceed with the matter 
here either.
As this was the case, Ms D raised a complaint with Halifax about the issue. And she asked 
how she was able to open new accounts. Halifax responded to this complaint. It said it was 
trying to limit the time its customers were in branch (this was due to coronavirus), but that if 
Ms D had her ID with her, it could book a telephone appointment for her.
Halifax also said its phone line was available for Ms D to call and set up any accounts  with 
no block being on the phone line. It also said it had checked its website following Ms Ds 
concerns about making an application online. And it was satisfied that Ms Ds address was 
present for selection  and could be entered manually too. So, it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Ms D wrote back to Halifax. She raised that she hadnt been offered a telephone 
appointment, or any option of a call back when she had tried to reach Halifax by telephone 
as directed. Ms D said she hadnt been provided with a free-phone number either. And she 
couldnt see why she wasnt able to apply for accounts in writing. Particularly given the 
issues she had experienced on the phone and online.
Halifax responded to this. It said the branch couldnt recall Ms Ds visit. But that if asked how 
to apply it would have told Ms D to do so via phone or online, because these methods were 
quickest. It said if Ms D had asked for a branch appointment, it would have taken a copy of 
Ms Ds ID and booked a telephone appointment, because of the pandemic. 
Halifax reiterated there was no block on its phone lines. And said call backs were only 
offered when waiting times were excessive. It gave details of a free-phone number. It also 
said it had tested the website, and the address was selectable. 
Ms D remained dissatisfied with the matter. So, she asked this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They noted 
that Halifax explained the phone lines didnt have any known issues at the time Ms D was 
calling to make an application. And, that having run a check on Halifaxs website, they noted 
Ms Ds address was both available to select online and could be entered manually. So, the 
investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong here. These options for opening 
accounts were available to Ms D. 
The investigator noted that Halifax didnt complete postal applications, or for Ms D to take 
her own device into branch, to set up an account that way. Setting up the account was either 
on the phone, or online. And was possible to do.
Following this, Ms D informed this service shed tried to open an account again  spending 
an hour on the phone, in branch, only to result in the message she was unable to be verified 
 and a telephone appointment couldnt be booked for her, without identification. Ms D said 
she also tried to open the account online, on her own device, whilst in branch. But wasnt 
able to open an account, because she didnt have an email address.
Ms D then informed our service she had contacted Halifax by phone and been put through to 
account queries  where she was able to open an account, without verification. So, she 
questioned why she hadnt been able to do this all along. 
Ms D also let this service know that whilst she had been able to open an account, she didnt 
agree with the investigators outcome. She felt she should be receiving interest on the funds 
she placed in the now open savings account. This being because she felt there was a delay 
in this being opened, when there shouldnt have been.
Because Ms D didnt agree with the investigators view, this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering a complaint of this nature, I need to decide whether Halifax acted 
reasonably in the ways it offered Ms D to open the savings account. 
Ms D has said she asked at the front desk in the branch about opening the savings account. 
And notes there wouldnt be a record of her visit  the branch wouldnt have known who she 
was  she didnt give her name for example. Halifax has said it has no recollection of the 
visit, and no notes  in line with what Ms D has said here.
 
With this mind, I dont know exactly what was said during Ms Ds visit to the branch. Both 
parties do however accept that the options provided to Ms D were for her to ring Halifax to 
set up an account or go online. Ive thought about whether these options were reasonable. 
And I do think they were. These are both ways for Ms D to access banking services  and 
there isnt any suggestion from the parties that these services werent suitable options for 
Ms D to access or use, given her own personal circumstances.
Ms D has said she tried to call Halifax to set up the account, as directed. But she couldnt get 
through to anyone. In order to say Halifax had acted unreasonably here, Id need evidence 
to show it was more likely than not, that Halifax had done something wrong in terms of the 
call, or its phone line. And that this error stopped Ms D having access to it. But I havent 
seen any evidence that was the case.Its not clear why Ms D wasnt able to speak to anyone. Halifax has said there were no 
issues with its phone systems at the time, and no blocks on receiving calls. And I havent got 
any firm evidence to suggest this is wrong. There could be any number of reasons why Ms D 
wasnt able to get through to Halifax  including call wait times or dialling error. And I dont 
know how many times Ms D did try to call Halifax initially  it may have been a call at 
another time would have been successful. 
Given the above, I dont hold Halifax accountable for Ms D not getting through to Halifax to 
set up the account in the first instance. And so I dont require it do anything more. Im aware 
that when Ms D did call Halifax later in the year, she was able to get through, and get the 
account set up. Im pleased to hear this was the case  and that it was possible to open the 
account through a phone call.
In terms of setting up an account online, Halifax say Ms Ds address was available for 
selection, and manual input. Our investigator checked this was the case. And Ive also done 
so  and was able to both select Ms Ds address and enter this manually. So, I do think it 
would have been possible for Ms D to enter her address. From looking at the file, Im aware 
Halifax has explained where in the drop-down list Ms Ds address is available. This wasnt 
sequential with the other numbers in Ms Ds road. So, I can see how this may cause 
confusion. But it doesnt alter that it was still possible to choose the correct address. So, I 
dont think Halifax has done anything wrong here.
Ms D has said that in branch she wasnt offered a phone appointment, given a free-phone 
number or offered to bring her personal device into branch to apply for the account. But 
Halifax werent generally offering branch appointments at the time, whether with an online 
device or not, so this doesnt seem unreasonable. And Im not aware Ms D asked for a 
phone number or branch appointment in her initial visit. So, I dont think it was unfair for 
Halifax to simply suggest Ms D call it or go online, given it said this was more efficient.
If Ms D has asked for a branch appointment, I would have expected Halifax, providing Ms D 
had her ID documents, to set up an appointment, perhaps on the phone, given Halifax has 
said that was its process, due to the pandemic. But as there isnt any evidence Ms D asked 
for a branch appointment, or had ID documents with her, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly 
here. Or that this changes the outcome of this complaint.
Ms D has also noted she would have liked to apply for the account in writing. But it isnt for 
this service to tell a business what processes it should use. Rather, Ive needed to think 
about whether there were reasonable ways for Ms D to access banking. And given there 
were a number of ways Ms D was able to do this, Im satisfied Halifax acted reasonably.
I can see within our file that Ms D mentioned a further visit to had to a branch, where she 
was waiting on the phone for an hour and couldnt proceed as it wasnt possible to verify her. 
And that opening an account online required an email address, which she didnt have. I cant 
see Ms D has raised these issues as a formal complaint with Halifax. So, it isnt something 
that forms part of my decision. Ms D would need to raise this with Halifax in the first instance 
 if she thinks it did something wrong here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman