DRN-3445267
The complaint
Mr S complains that his bank card was unfairly blocked by The Co-operative Bank Plc 
(Co-op). 
What happened
Last year, Mr S tried to use his bank card to withdraw cash from his Co-op current account. 
The withdrawal was declined and Co-op sent Mr S a text message asking him to get in 
contact. 
Mr S called Co-op and has told us he was on hold for around 20 minutes. Mr S was able to 
discuss his account with an agent and the block was removed at around 2:30pm. 
During his call, Mr S complained about Co-ops decision to block his account. Co-op didnt 
accept it had treated Mr S unfairly and said the block had been placed to protect his account 
following a security alert. An investigator at this service went on to look at Mr S complaint 
and thought Co-op had dealt with it fairly. Mr S asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt it was inconvenient for Mr S to have transactions declined by Co-op. Mr S has 
told us he had to return home to contact Co-op and resolve the situation. Mr S has also told 
us he had to hold for a long time before he was able to speak with someone. Thats not 
ideal. But I have to balance the inconvenience caused to Mr S against Co-ops responsibility 
to ensure it protects his account. 
Mr S has told us he wants to know why an alert was placed despite using his PIN to 
authorise payments. Co-ops explained Mr S card was blocked as a fraud prevention 
measure. Co-ops supported its claim by providing evidence to show transactions were 
picked up by its payment systems for further checks. Co-ops systems placed a temporary 
block on the card and it sent Mr S a text message. I appreciate all the transactions on Mr S 
account were genuine, but the systems information Ive seen shows further checks were 
required following a fraud prevention alert.
I can see the investigator has already quoted the specific account terms so I wont copy 
them again here. In short, the terms allow Co-op to suspend or block a card if it has security 
concerns or to prevent fraud. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr S transactions and account 
were reasonably picked up for additional checks as a fraud prevention measure. And Im 
satisfied that was in line with Co-ops account terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent been persuaded that Co-op acted unfairly. I 
appreciate there was no fraudulent activity in this case. But the account block was removed 
without an unreasonable delay during Mr S call. Whilst I can see there was some 
inconvenience caused to Mr S, I havent found that Co-ops actions were unreasonable or 
outside of the account terms. 
As Im satisfied Co-op dealt with Mr S complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman