DRN-3266296
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC has declined a chargeback hes made on his current 
account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary.
Mr I has a current account with Barclays. He purchased an airline ticket using his 
Barclays debit card on the account. Subsequently, the flight was cancelled and Mr I 
was provided with an alternative flight but declined it.
He was offered a refund, less a £25 cancellation fee, through a travel association 
which offers financial protection for travellers but he wasnt happy to pay the fee and 
so rejected the offer. 
He contacted Barclays and asked it to arrange a chargeback for the full amount. 
Barclays arranged a temporary refund while it investigated the claim. It sent Mr I 
evidence from the retailer and requested certain information from him but didnt 
receive it. It let him know it hadnt been able to retrieve the disputed funds and 
removed the temporary refund from his account.
He complained to Barclays and it said it had followed the dispute process correctly 
but couldnt force a retailer to make a refund. 
It went on to say as Mr I had already been offered a refund and was just unhappy 
with the fee that would be charged, rather than the amount of the flight, it shouldnt 
have attempted the chargeback or temporarily refunded the transaction at all. It 
agreed £50 compensation for this error.
Mr I brought his complaint to this Service but our Investigator didnt uphold it and Mr I 
asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr I feels the retailer has a history of unreasonable behaviour and hes 
provided copies of data from an online review site he says supports this. Hes also 
supplied information from other sources which says retailers shouldnt be charging 
administration fees. But as our Investigator explained, we can only consider a 
complaint about the actions of a financial business, and in this case, thats Barclays. 
So, I wont be commenting on or making findings about the actions of the retailer.
The chargeback scheme is operated by the card issuer, rather than by Barclays. It 
must comply with the scheme rules and it cant force a retailer to return funds. Its 
worth explaining here that chargebacks arent a right and they dont guarantee the 
return of the money, as its dependent on the underlying circumstances of the 
individual case.
Here, Mr I had already been offered a refund for the cancelled flight when he 
approached Barclays. At this point, Barclays should have told him that a chargeback 
wasnt available due to the refund offer but it went ahead and started the chargeback 
process anyway. I think it gave him unrealistic expectations when it did this. 
I acknowledge theres some disagreement about the timescales involved and 
whether Barclays provided Mr I with enough time to provide the extra information. But 
given what Ive said above, Im not persuaded this changed the overall outcome  
that the chargeback failed and the temporary refund was removed from Mr Is 
account  or that Mr I was disadvantaged even if there were delays.
Barclays has offered Mr I £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused by its mistake and I consider this fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I cant comment on the fee that would have been charged by the travel association 
on making the refund as its not a business that we have the power to consider 
complaints about.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman