DRN-2843209
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Jaja Finance Ltd declined her claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs R purchased a summerhouse from an online merchant and paid using her 
credit card held with Bank of Ireland UK.
Mrs R experienced issues with the summerhouse, some of which included:
- Incorrectly sized panels
- Material for window and door panel not fit for purposes so had to purchase 
toughened glass
- Panels were different shades of wood
- Gap between door and roof
Mrs R was unable to resolve things with the merchant. She made a claim under section 75 
to Bank of Ireland UK.
Bank of Ireland UK declined the claim. It said that the contractor employed by Mrs R to 
assemble the summerhouse had damaged the panels by trying to make them fit. It said that 
if the parts were defective of if they didnt fit, Mrs R should have returned them to the 
merchant for a replacement or refund.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that there had been a breach of contract.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said the photos shed provided showed that there were defects with 
the summerhouse and that the materials supplied werent fit for purpose.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a 
supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In order to uphold Mrs Rs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, and that Bank of Ireland UKs 
response wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mrs R hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ill focus on whether theres been 
a breach of contract here.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred, 
and Id expect the merchant to put things right, either by offering a repair or a replacement, 
or a refund.
Ive looked at the available evidence including the statement from the merchant, the report 
from the contractor employed by Mrs R to assemble the summerhouse and the photos 
supplied by Mrs R. Ive also taken into account everything that Mrs R has said.
In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied that the 
evidence shows that the goods werent of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose at the point of 
supply.
The difficulty in this case is that instead of returning the goods to the merchant, Mrs R 
employed a contractor to assemble the summerhouse, and in the course of doing so he 
made alterations to the panels and substituted some of the original materials supplied for 
others. Ive taken account of Mrs Rs comments that cutting the panels to size bears no 
relevance to the materials being unfit for purpose. However, I think its possible  if not likely 
 that cutting the panels has caused or contributed to some of the issues complained about 
by Mrs R, such as the floor cracking and requiring reinforcement and the gaps between the 
roof and the door, and parts of the roof not fitting flush.
In relation to the different shades of wood, and taking into account that wood is a natural 
product and subject to variation in colour, I think this is a cosmetic issue and not one which 
is enough to render the goods of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive taken the expert report into account. However, as the author of the report is the same 
person as the contractor employed by Mrs R to assemble the summerhouse, Im unable to 
treat this report as independent. This service suggested to Mrs R that she obtain a further, 
independent report, but I havent been provided with this.
Taking all the available evidence into account, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the goods werent of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. So, I cant 
say that theres been a breach of contract. I dont think Bank of Irelands response to the 
section 75 claim was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman