DRN-3843036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the quality of repairs carried out by contractors AXA Insurance 
UK Plc appointed after they made a claim on their home insurance policy.
References to AXA include its agents.
What happened
In late 2017, Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their home insurance policy with AXA after a 
leak caused some damage to their kitchen. AXA accepted the claim and arranged for the 
kitchen floor (chip wood, plywood and tiles) to be replaced. The repairs were completed in 
early 2018.
In mid-2019, Mr P raised some concerns about movement in the floor, grout disintegrating 
and a tile lifting. AXA arranged for contractors to carry out rectification work which was 
completed in early 2020. However, Mr P says this didnt resolve the issue. 
In September 2020, Mr P contacted AXA after he noticed cracks in the grouting again, but  
Mr Ps concerns werent responded to for over a year. 
 
After Mr P raised a complaint, AXA paid him £300 to compensate him for distress and 
inconvenience caused by poor communication. However, it didnt agree that the issues with 
his floor were due to poor workmanship. So, Mr and Mrs P asked our service to consider 
their concerns. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be 
upheld. He wasnt persuaded that the issues with the floor were related to the quality of 
repairs carried out by AXAs contractors. He thought they were likely to be related to an 
issue with the construction of the property.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators outcome. He questioned how the issue could be 
related to the pre-existing suspended floor. He said there had been no signs of issues in the 
affected area prior to the works carried out and the previous floor had been in place for many 
years. He felt there must be an association, given the issues began less than a year after the 
works had been completed. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair, wed expect it to indemnify the 
policyholder by carrying out an effective and lasting repair.
The issues Mr P has reported in relation to his floor arent disputed. However, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to conclude that the original repairs were inadequate on this basis alone. 
There needs to be evidence linking these issues to the repairs. 
From what Ive seen, Mr P first raised concerns about the quality of repairs around 18 
months after they were completed. He said there was some movement occurring, the 
grouting was disintegrating, and a tile had lifted. According to AXAs notes, Mr P said only a 
small area of the floor tiles was affected and this was on the other side of the room to where 
the pipework was. Mr P said he had concerns that at the time the flooring was re-laid 
because the contractors didnt appear to have used the same thickness of subflooring they 
originally had. 
AXA arranged for contractors to attend Mr Ps property. They observed several areas with 
hairline cracks in the grout, which they attributed to movement in the suspended timber floor 
joists. They said there was unavoidable movement when the floor was walked on. They said: 
Due to the construction of the floor, which is a suspended floor, which is then plyed and 
ceramic tiles laid. With ceramic tiles, if you have any form of movement, no matter how 
small, cracking of the grout will occur as it is rigid. A timber suspended floor is not rigid.
The contractors said the timber floor had been installed correctly, with plywood laid and tiles 
bonded to the floor correctly. They said that during stripping works on the original claim it 
was noted that the existing suspended floor had timber legs added in various places to try to 
minimise any spring in the joists. They said they had added more legs across the whole 
kitchen area at the request of the customer.
The contractors said it had installed on a like for like basis of the original when carrying out 
repairs and the cracks were not a workmanship issue. They said they would be happy to re-
grout the floor again where the cracks were, but all parties needed to be aware of the 
situation and the cause of this before they proceeded. From what Ive seen and been told, 
this work was completed in January 2020.
Mr P says he wasnt aware that extra legs had been added when the original repairs were 
carried out. He says no pre-existing condition was mentioned to him at that time. Hes also 
commented that it seems unlikely AXA would have paid for works in full if there was a known 
issue or that re-tiling the floor would have been accepted as a solution if the subfloor was 
expected to be a risk.
The surveyors report from November 2017 refers to the escape of water causing damage to 
flooring and the chipwood and ply being glued to the timber floor joists. From what Ive seen 
and been told, the chipwood, ply and tiles were replaced.
I havent got anything to show me what might have been discussed with Mr P when the 
original repairs were carried out. The contractors might not have made him aware there was 
pre-existing movement in the subfloor. However, I havent seen any evidence to show that 
the movement was caused by damage relating to his claim. So, Im not persuaded AXA was 
responsible for fixing it. 
Mr P says the previous floor was in place for six years with no issues in the area thats been 
affected since the repairs were carried out. I appreciate Mr P believes there must be an 
association between the work that was carried out and the subsequent problems for this 
reason. However, this isnt enough for me to conclude that the repairs AXA arranged caused 
the issues.AXA has said it would be willing to consider evidence Mr P could provide to contradict what it 
has said. However, Mr P doesnt seem to have provided this. All I have available to me are 
photographs and Mr Ps opinion that the issues are related to the previous repairs. 
Im not in the position to dispute the information provided by AXAs contractors, as nothing 
from a similarly qualified professional or expert has been provided to refute this. 
I think it was fair for AXA to rely on the evidence provided by its contractors when it 
concluded that the movement in the subfloor isnt something the policy provided cover for 
and wasnt related to the previous repairs. Its also acted fairly by saying it would look at the 
matter again if further evidence is provided. AXA has paid Mr P compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused by poor communication and I think this is reasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs P, but I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman