DRN-2753545
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) cant locate certified 
copies of identification documents they provided to the bank.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took identification documents to a branch, as requested by Halifax, following a 
data subject access request (DSAR). Here the copies were certified and kept by the branch 
to send onto the head office. Halifax then contacted Mr and Mrs C to say the certified copy 
documents hadnt been received and another set were required before it could process the 
DSAR. It was at this point Mr and Mrs C realised theyd been lost by Halifax.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Halifax. Halifax explained:
The branch says the certified copy documents were sent to the head office but 
theres no record of them being received. 
They wouldve been sent using their internal mail system and therefore not left the 
banking group. 
Any documents that dont reach their destination within the internal mail system are 
destroyed to prevent any data breaches.
It apologised to Mr and Mrs C and sent them a cheque for £200 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of the certified copy documents. Mr and Mrs 
C were unhappy, saying there was no evidence the information was destroyed securely and 
they were concerned the banks actions left them open to fraud. They brought the complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
In relation to the bank losing Mr and Mrs Cs certified copy documents, he felt the risk of data 
breach was very low considering the banks explanation. He said there was no evidence to 
suggest they had been in the hands of a third party or left the business's internal system. He 
felt this, coupled with the low risk that - even if they did go elsewhere - this would be 
someone who would use them inappropriately, supported his view that the resolution 
proposed by Halifax was fair. As a result of this, he thought the explanation given by the 
bank and payment of compensation was a fair and reasonable way to resolve this matter. He 
noted Mr and Mrs C wanted Halifax to implement a better system to safeguard identity 
documents but explained this wouldnt be something our service could consider.
Mr and Mrs C disagree and dont feel the offer is adequate and consider £2,000 would be an 
appropriate level of compensation. They make several points including the following: 
The assumption the certified copy documents have been lost in Halifaxs internal 
system and destroyed is guesswork and unsatisfactory.
There should be proper logs of documents in transit and destroyed to allow them to 
be traced. 
Halifax has a duty of care and responsibility to protect the personal data sent in this 
way and greater controls should be in place to ensure this is met.
Their certified copy documents could be anywhere and may fall into the wrong 
hands. This continues to cause them anxiety and worry.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Firstly, I think its important to explain its not our role to decide if a business has breached 
data protection laws. This is for the ICO to decide. But we can consider whether its fair and 
reasonable to tell a business to pay compensation or take any other action to recognise the 
impact of whats happened on the consumer.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs C that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Halifax has explained what it has done to establish where the certified copy documents 
would be and what happens in the event they went to another location in the internal mail 
system, rather than where they shouldve been sent. So, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs C 
still feel worried, I havent found enough evidence to support their concern that the 
documents werent dealt with in the way Halifax has described. And theres no evidence any 
of their information has been used in the way they fear so I cant consider this. We can only 
look at what has happened and the actual impact of that event, not at what mightve 
potentially happened.
Taking everything into account, I consider the explanation, apology and £200 already sent to 
Mr and Mrs C to compensate them for the impact of this distress and inconvenience is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve this matter. If Mr and Mrs C need Halifax to reissue the 
cheque, they can get in touch with the bank to request this.
I note our investigator mentioned that a CIFAS marker might assist Mr and Mrs C. I agree 
this is something sensible for them to weigh up as it could assist in giving them greater 
peace of mind.
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to resolve their dispute with Halifax  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Rebecca EllisOmbudsman