The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Vitality Health Limited handled a claim he made under 
his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was born with pectus excavatum. In 2019, he had a consultation with a Vitality GP as 
he was experiencing a shortness of breath when exercising, which he hadnt experienced 
before. The policy doesnt cover chronic conditions, but Vitality confirmed acceptance of the 
claim on the basis that Mr S was having breathing difficulties. It confirmed if surgery was 
needed, this would be covered for acute issues, but not for any precautionary measures. 
Mr S met with a consultant who offered surgery to correct the deformity. Mr S contacted 
Vitality and in May 2019, it confirmed the procedure was authorised. 
However, on 25 June, Mr S called Vitality to say the operation had been cancelled by the 
hospital as there was a shortage of critical care staff. And the operation was due to be re-
booked. But Vitality re-considered and declined the claim on the basis that Mr S wasnt 
suffering from an acute condition. So the re-scheduled surgery couldnt go ahead as 
planned. 
Vitality said it couldnt be held responsible for the initial cancellation which was due to a lack 
of staff at the hospital. But it had made a mistake when authorising the claim and was 
entitled to re-consider and decline the claim.
It offered Mr S £1,000 compensation to recognise the impact of its mistake. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Vitalitys decision to 
decline the claim and argues that his condition should be covered as he is suffering from an 
acute flare up. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said Vitality should reassess the claim as it 
hadnt based its decision on sufficient evidence. She said it was reasonable for Vitality to pay 
Mr S £1,000 compensation for the initial mistake and the disappointment of not being able to 
go ahead with the planned surgery. But she also thought Vitality should pay an additional 
£150 compensation for the way it dealt with the re-consideration of the claim. She said 
Vitality hadnt taken reasonable steps to gather further evidence to assess the claim for the 
second time. 
Both Vitality and Mr S disagreed with the investigator. Mr S says Vitality mishandled the 
claim from the beginning. He says it should have verified cover properly and he wouldnt 
have had to go through the stress of preparing for a serious operation. He had booked time 
DRN-1619976off for work and had made arrangements which had to be cancelled. Mr S says Vitality has 
failed to provide any independent medical opinion and has discredited the information 
provided by the consultant.
Vitality says the condition isnt covered as Mr S wasnt suffering with acute issues which 
would require surgery. And it didnt think any additional compensation was warranted as its 
offer of £1,000 encompassed all issues.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr S complaint should be upheld and largely for the same reasons 
as explained by the investigator. 
The relevant industry rules and guidance say Vitality must handle a claim promptly and fairly. 
Vitalitys policy terms say it will cover:
A sudden and unexpected deterioration of a chronic condition that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment that aims to restore you to your state of health immediately before 
suffering an acute flare up. Just to be clear this does not include deterioration of a chronic 
condition where this is part of the normal progress of the illness or recurring relapses of a 
chronic condition.
It also says: We will not pay for the following treatmentsroutine, precautionary or 
preventive examinationsor preventive treatment. 
Vitality says all the medical information available shows that this condition doesnt have 
acute flare-ups but does show a progressive nature of the condition. And a change in 
symptoms doesnt imply an acute flare up as this is the normal part of a gradual deterioration 
of a condition.
Mr S says he struggled to catch his breath when he started personal training, this had never 
happened before and it wasnt a historical issue. So he considers it is an acute condition. He 
has provided his medical history which confirms he hasnt had any similar complaints of 
breathlessness in the past. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Vitality has handled the claim properly - it had 
authorised a claim incorrectly and Mr S was left disappointed after planning to have an 
operation but then being told the claim wasnt covered. 
To begin with, the operation was authorised and booked but was cancelled due to a lack of 
critical care staff. Vitality has said it cant be held responsible for the cancellation and I agree 
as it has no control over staffing levels at the hospital. The operation was due to be re-
booked but Vitality asked the treating consultant for further information. 
The consultant had written to Mr S GP after meeting with him and had said Mr S had mild 
pectus, occasional tightness of the chest when exercising but he didnt have symptoms of 
laboured breathing or chest pains.Vitality said that Mr S symptoms werent acute based on the consultants answers and 
declined to provide further cover. 
Ive seen further correspondence between Vitality and the consultant. As outlined by our 
investigator, the consultant made general comments about people who have pectus and 
not specifically about Mr S.
Our investigator didnt think Vitality had obtained enough information to confirm that Mr S 
wasnt suffering an acute flare up of his condition. And I agree. Vitality should have gone 
back to the consultant to clarify whether this was an acute flare up especially since there is 
no evidence of any complaints of breathlessness from Mr S in his medical history prior to this 
claim. And I havent seen any evidence from Vitality asking the consultant to confirm whether 
the breathlessness Mr S was experiencing was simply a normal part of a gradual 
deterioration of his condition.
So I dont think Vitality can rely on the general comments made by the consultant to 
conclude Mr S isnt suffering from an acute flare up. And it should seek further information 
and clarification before re-assessing the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Vitality Health Limited should reassess the claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and it should pay Mr S a total of 
£1,150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman