DRN-4278817
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr G opened a credit shopping account with Shop Direct in August 2018. He had previously 
held a cash account but applied to convert it. His credit account limit was initially £750. Over 
the course of the next 16 months Mr Gs account limit was increased six times until, in 
December 2019 it was £2,400.
Mr G says that Shop Direct shouldnt have lent to him. He says that he couldnt afford the 
credit and that Shop Direct ought to have known this.
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr G  and when it 
increased his credit limit. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Gs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mr G was acceptable, but that by the time his credit was increased 
to £1,900, Shop Direct didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so. 
Our investigator said that Shop Direct should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mr G.
 
Shop Direct didnt agree. It said that Mr G didnt miss any payments and that the 
management of his account was generally good. It said that it didnt have any indication that 
Mr G couldnt afford the credit.
Mr G thought that his complaint should have been upheld from an earlier point.
 
As neither party agreed, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Gs complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Gs income and expenditure. There may even come a point 
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
When Mr G opened his account in August 2018, Shop Direct has told us there were no signs 
of financial difficulties based on the checks it did.  Having reviewed the checks, I think there 
were some signs of concern. For example, they showed that Mr G had only had five months 
in the preceding 24 months where he hadnt been in arrears with other creditors. And he had 
had a large number of unsecured loans  17. These may have been evidence of short term 
lending. I accept that his live credit limit across all his accounts was relatively low at £3,725 
and that he had no current arrears or CCJs, but this doesnt negate the other information. 
Shop Direct also knew that Mr G had previously been in arrears with another credit account 
he held with Shop Direct, although this had been settled and closed the previous year.
On the basis of the information Shop Direct had, I think it ought to have found out more 
about Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
I cant be sure how Shop Direct would have done this and there is no prescriptive list of 
checks that a business must do, so I dont know exactly what it would have seen had it tried 
to find out more. It says it knew Mr G was living with his parents and had a salary of £22,501 
a year. I assume this came from his application as Shop Direct hasnt provided other 
evidence of this. 
In the absence of any other information, I think its reasonable to rely on bank statements 
and a credit file Mr G has supplied. This is not to suggest that Shop Direct should have 
asked to see his bank statements, rather than, say, asking him to tell it about his income, 
borrowing commitments and essential expenditure. It is simply that this is the best way of 
establishing what Mr G might have disclosed to Shop Direct if it had asked.
Looking at these I am satisfied that Mr Gs committed expenditure, including his rent, food, 
insurance, credit and other contractual commitments, left him with sufficient disposable 
income each month to be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the new lending. So, 
I think even if Shop Direct had completed necessary checks it still would have fairly 
concluded that Mr G could afford the additional borrowing. 
The first credit limit increase came four months later. Shop Direct said it completed further 
checks. The investigator asked for evidence of those checks. Shop Direct said it had already 
provided them, but the only information it had provided about checks related to the original 
opening of the account, not the credit limit increases. 
I think, again, Shop Direct ought to have found out more about Mr Gs income and 
expenditure. Having reviewed Mr Gs bank statements and credit file for that period I am 
satisfied that he had sufficient disposable income that if Shop Direct had completed 
necessary checks it would have still provided the credit. This same principle applies to the 
next two increases, too. 
However, in August 2019, when Shop Direct increased Mr Gs credit limit from £1,650 to 
£1,900, Mr Gs financial circumstances appear to have deteriorated. His bank statements 
showed that while his income had increased marginally, his payments towards existing 
formal credit commitments had increased significantly. He was now spending just short of 
50% of his net income each month to meet repayments on his existing formal credit and his 
essential expenditure accounted for a further 35% of his net income, leaving him with £250 disposable income each month. I note that Mr G was making low repayments on his 
revolving credit which may, if it continued, result in him being unable to pay off those 
commitments in a sustainable manner. So, I think Mr G lost out when his credit limit was 
increased to £1,900.
Mr G says that I should take into account that he was borrowing from family to meet his 
commitments. I can see from his bank statements that there was money coming in from (and 
going out to) family members. Some of it is recorded as borrowed or payback. However, I 
cant identify any specific pattern to this which suggests it was any kind of formal, long term 
arrangement. It wouldnt have appeared on any credit checks, and I dont think Shop Direct 
needed to have asked about informal lending to establish Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
So while this may have indicated that Mr G was struggling with his finances, I dont think 
reasonable and proportionate checks by Shop Direct would have revealed this. 
On the information available to me I think if Shop Direct had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when it increased Mr Gs credit limit in August 2019 it would have 
understood that Mr G would struggle to affordably repay the increased credit. I think Mr G 
lost out as a result. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Gs circumstances changed 
significantly for the better in the following months up to the sixth credit limit increase in 
December 2019, so I am satisfied that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided him with the two 
later increases, either.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Shop Direct to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Mr G as a result of the credit unfairly extended to him. I dont think the limit should have been 
increased from 17 August 2019 onwards, therefore Shop Direct should rework the account 
and:
remove any interest and charges incurred as a result of any increases (including any 
buy now pay later interest). That is, Shop Direct can only add interest accrued on the 
balance up to the credit limit of £1,650  this being the credit limit before 17 August 
2019.
Shop Direct should work out how much Mr G would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mr G made since 17 August 2019 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mr G 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr G no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from 17 August 2019. 
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange and 
affordable payment plan with Mr G for the outstanding amount. If any debt was sold 
to a third party, Shop Direct should either repurchase the debt or liaise with the third-
party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Mr G had cleared the balance, 
any adverse information as a result of the unfair lending should be removed from the 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.My final decision
I think Shop Direct acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Mr G on 17 August 2019. 
To put this right I direct Shop Direct & Company Limited to pay compensation as explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman