DRN-1785379
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to pay him interest on his bank account 
although he met the terms and conditions to do so. 
What happened
Mr R opened a classic plus bank account with TSB in June 2017. Mr R says that he opened 
the account to take advantage of various account benefits including credit interest being 
paid. Mr R says that he only looks at his banking app to check his bank account and it wasnt 
until October 2019 when visiting the branch, it was pointed out he wasnt receiving interest. 
The reason for this was when opening the bank account Mr R was told he hadnt opted for 
paperless correspondence which was a condition of the bank account to benefit from credit 
interest. Mr R says that he did opt out of both paperless statements and correspondence 
and furthermore hasnt received any correspondence in paper form from TSB. Mr R says he 
only applied for the classic plus account to take advantage of the benefits and TSB should 
pay him the interest for the period in question. 
TSB says that Mr R applied online and didnt opt for paperless correspondence and cant 
see any reason why he wouldnt have received post from them. TSB say that Mr R was sent 
emails detailing his bank account statements during this time and these would have shown 
he was not receiving interest on his account.
Mr R wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
The investigator felt that as Mr R received regular statements via email, he should have 
been aware he wasnt receiving interest on his account and Mr R didnt opt for paperless 
correspondence until October 2019. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether TSB acted correctly when not 
applying creditor interest to Mr Rs bank account. 
I can understand that Mr R would be upset to discover he wasnt receiving credit interest on 
his bank account given he believed he had correctly met the conditions of the account when 
he opted for paperless correspondence and statements. I have considered this point and 
from the information made available to me I can see that when  opening the account online 
customers need to manage their preferences by ticking boxes to confirm they want 
paperless statements and separately tick a box for paperless correspondence. What is 
important here is that these actions can only be instructed by the account applicant online 
and not something that TSB would complete at the account opening stage. 
While I can see that Mr R believes he did do this, so he could benefit from credit interest  
as this option can only be selected by the applicant online, I cant see that Mr R has opted 
for this. On balance I am satisfied this, more than likely, has been missed as I cant see any 
reason to suggest TSB wouldnt havent paid the interest if the account had been correctly 
set up this way. 
Mr R says that he only opened the account on the basis he would benefit from the credit 
interest and other benefits, which is understandable. Knowing how important that was to Mr 
R I am satisfied  there were several opportunities for Mr R to check his monthly emailed 
bank statements and it was only after two years that a member of staff pointed out he wasnt 
earning creditor interest. While Mr R says he only looks at his mobile banking app which he 
says doesnt provide a full breakdown of transactions-  it is still his responsibility to check his 
monthly statement sent to him by email. 
Mr R says that he hasnt received any correspondence from TSB. TSB have given an 
example where they sent a change of the terms of conditions in July 2017 to Mr Rs address 
held on record. While TSB cant provide a copy of the actual letter an example of this has 
been provided to this service. What is worth mentioning  here is that while Mr R suggests if 
he hadnt opted for paperless correspondence, he would have received postal 
communications, under the terms and conditions of his account section 3.3 it states:
 We may contact you by post, telephone and electronically using the contact details you 
give us (including any electronic address that we agree with you will be used to send you 
electronic communications).
While I can understand that Mr R would think that he should have received various forms of 
correspondence in the post, TSB can opt to communicate in a variety of methods using the 
data they have on file and therefore correspondence may be sent by any of the options 
mentioned in section 3.3 above.   
What is important here is whether or not, when opening the bank account, the option to 
select paperless correspondence was ticked, to benefit from the credit interest. On balance, 
given that Mr R opened the account himself online I am satisfied that TSB cant be held 
responsible for this. 
It follows that while Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman