DRN-3387609
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received when he approached SCOTCASH C.I.C.
trading as Scotcash for help due to the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr B entered into a loan agreement with Scotcash. In May 2020, he
asked Scotcash for a payment holiday. Scotcash agreed and the payment holiday was put in 
place before Mr Bs June payment was due.
On 9 June 2020, Mr B contacted Scotcash and asked for a further payment holiday. This
was put in place. Mr B says he understood that the payment holiday would cover the July
and August payments. But, on 21 August 2020, Scotcash contacted him and said that he
had missed the August payment. Mr B says he agreed to his Direct Debit being reinstated
from 30 September 2020.
In January 2021, Mr B says he found out that there were several missed payments recorded
on his credit file and that his loan balance was higher than he expected. He complained to
Scotcash. It said that the payment holiday he had applied for in June 2020 only covered the
July payment. Mr B hadnt made a payment in August and his Direct Debit was reinstated
after the September payment date, so he had missed two payments which continued to be
reported while the account was in arrears. Scotcash said that the loan balance was higher
because additional interest had been applied in light of the payment holiday and the arrears.
Mr B wasnt happy with Scotcashs response and brought his complaint to this service. I 
issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2022, indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. Mr B accepted my provisional findings, but Scotcash didnt. 
Scotcash says that Mr B never told it that Covid-19 was the reason he wanted a payment 
holiday. It says he mentioned this for the first time when he referred the complaint to this 
service. Scotcash says it had clear processes in place for dealing with Covid-19 related 
payment holidays and that, if Mr B had said at the time that this was why he needed a 
payment holiday, it would have followed those processes. I put Scotcashs comments to Mr 
B, who says that his request was related to Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the parties responses to my provisional decision and looked at 
everything again. I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate 
outcome here, so Im going to uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance which said
that firms should offer payment holidays of up to three months to customers who were
negatively impacted by coronavirus. It said that customers credit files shouldnt be affected
by taking a payment holiday. These measures were extended in July 2020, when the FCA
said that firms should extend payment holidays for a further three months for customers who
were still struggling due to Covid-19.
Scotcash says that Mr B didnt state at any point before coming to this service that his 
payment holiday request was related to Covid-19. I note that the emails between the parties 
from 9 June 2020 onwards dont refer to Covid-19. But I cant be sure what was said in any 
communications prior to that as I havent seen those. Scotcashs note of the call on 21 
August 2020 doesnt refer to Covid-19. But I dont think that proves it wasnt mentioned. 
Its a very brief note of the conversation and is unlikely to record all that was said. Mr B has 
consistently described that conversation as being very helpful and reassuring. He says he 
explained to Scotcashs agent the issues he was having, both in relation to Covid-19 and 
other personal and health issues he was experiencing at the time. None of these details are 
recorded in the note, but that doesnt persuade me that they werent discussed.
In any event, Mr B says that the only reason a payment holiday was available was the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Scotcash says that, as soon as the FCA guidance was announced, it 
actively advised every customer that payment holidays were available due to the pandemic. 
Given the timing of Mr Bs first payment holiday request, I find it likely that he got in touch as 
a result of this proactive advice from Scotcash. I havent seen any evidence that Scotcash 
was offering payment holidays to customers for reasons other than Covid-19. And, from the 
information available to me, I think Mr B was eligible for a payment holiday under the FCA 
guidance. So, Im satisfied that the FCA guidance applies here.
Turning to the details of the payment holidays which were granted here, Im satisfied that Mr 
Bs initial payment holiday was for one month only (June 2020). Shortly after this, on 9 June 
2020, he sent an email to Scotcash as follows: Hi I was looking to see if it was possible to 
have another months payment holiday for my next payment due date. In light of this, Im 
satisfied that Mr B was only seeking a payment holiday for one more month. As his loan 
repayments were usually taken on the 1st of the month, Scotcash read his email as a request 
for a payment holiday for July 2020. I think that was reasonable.
Scotcash responded to Mr B as follows: Thank you for your enquiry. I have applied a
payment holiday for your 1st July 2020 payment. Your next Direct Debit will be taken on 1st
August 2020. Please be aware that interest will continue to accrue during this period. I think
it was clear from this that the payment holiday which had been granted would only cover the
July payment and that payments would resume in August.
Mr B says he called and requested a further payment holiday for August. From the evidence 
available, I cant safely conclude that a payment holiday was requested before the August 
payment. And Im satisfied there wasnt one in place for that month.
Scotcash says it tried to collect the August payment from Mr Bs bank. It says the payment
was declined because the Direct Debit had been cancelled by Mr B. Im satisfied that Mr B 
cancelled the Direct Debit without informing Scotcash and without a payment holiday being 
in place for August. So I think it was reasonable that Scotcash tried to collect the August 
payment. When that failed, I think it was reasonable that Scotcash treated the account as 
being in arrears and reported a missed payment to the Credit Reference Agencies. But I 
think the situation changed when Scotcash spoke to Mr B on 21 August 2020. 
It was agreed during this call that Mr Bs Direct Debit would be reinstated from 30 September 
2020. But, as Ive indicated above, the parties recollections differ about what else was 
discussed. Mr B says he explained that he wanted another payment holiday for August. He says that Scotcashs advisor told him not to worry and that they would get it sorted. He says 
he took this to mean that it would be put through as a payment holiday.
Scotcashs notes of the call say Called the mobile and spoke to cust, he apologised for not 
being in touch but had been off his work due to issues with his health and had no funds 
coming in. Gets paid last day monthly so DD reinstated from 30/09 as will only get 2 weeks 
wages this month as just back at work.
As I explained above, Im satisfied that Mr B was impacted by coronavirus and that he was 
eligible for a payment holiday under the FCA guidance. Scotcash had already agreed to two 
one-month payment holidays and Mr Bs credit file hadnt been impacted by those. So it 
appears that Scotcash had been following the FCA guidance to some extent in relation to Mr 
Bs account already. But I think it ought to have offered Mr B a further payment holiday 
during this call, to cover at least the August and September payments.
Instead, Scotcash agreed to set up Mr Bs Direct Debit to start from 30 September. This was
too late for the instalment which was due on 1 September. But the payment due date for
September doesnt appear to have been changed to the 30th of the month. So, even though
Mr B made a payment on 30 September, his payment for that month was recorded as being
late. That doesnt seem fair, when hed explained his circumstances to Scotcash and it had
agreed a new collection date for the Direct Debit.
Scotcashs notes dont record any discussion of how Mr Bs account or credit file would be
impacted by this, which Scotcash accepts. Mr B clearly wasnt aware of the effect it would 
have. Even allowing for different recollections of exactly what was discussed, I think its fair 
to say that the position could have been made clearer by Scotcash at the time. Im not 
satisfied that it explained how Mr Bs account and credit file would be impacted or suggested 
any alternative solutions. So I cant conclude that it followed the FCAs guidance or showed 
Mr B appropriate forbearance.
I think the FCA guidance ought to be applied retrospectively here. I realise that Mr B only 
asked for a one-month payment holiday initially, then one more month. But I think he could 
have been eligible for a payment holiday of up to six months under the FCA guidance. If Mr 
B had asked for a three-month payment holiday when he first contacted Scotcash in May, 
then asked to extend it, he could have missed the payments from June to September without 
any impact on his credit file. I dont think he should be in a worse position just because he 
didnt ask for a longer payment holiday, in line with the FCA guidance, from the outset.
Turning to the interest, Im satisfied that Scotcash told Mr B that interest would continue to
accrue during the payment holiday. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the interest
was calculated incorrectly. So I dont think Scotcash acted unfairly in this respect.
But I can understand the distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced upon finding out how
his credit file had been impacted. This could have been avoided, as could the pressure to
make payments while his work was being impacted by coronavirus, if Scotcash had dealt
with his request for support more appropriately and in line with the FCA guidance.
I understand that Mr Bs loan has now been repaid in full. In order to put things right, I think
Scotcash should remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies
from August 2020 onwards and pay Mr B £150 in compensation for the unnecessary distress
and inconvenience caused.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. SCOTCASH C.I.C. trading as Scotcash 
should:
remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from
August 2020 onwards; and
pay Mr B compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman