DRN-4036352
The complaint
Miss M complains that Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Quidie) failed properly to arrange
with the credit reference agencies removal of her paid-up loan.
Miss M also complains about the methods of communication with her (which included the
way she was spoken to on the telephone), the lack of communication and that she has not
received a final response letter from it. So, she is complaining about the account
management, the customer service and the complaint handling of this matter.
What happened
Miss M took a loan with Quidie in November 2021. In February 2022 Miss M received a
response to her complaint about Quidie having lent to her irresponsibly. That final response
letter (FRL) did not agree that it had lent to her irresponsibly but it said to Miss M if she
withdrew her complaint then Quidie would reduce the open balance from just over £289 to
£100.
Then as an incentive to pay off and close the account it said in that same FRL: we are 
willing to completely delete all your accounts from your credit file, once the last one is 
repaid.
Miss M had one loan. She paid off the £100 on 30 May 2022. Email correspondence to
confirm that repayment and the loan closure has been sent to us. That was the start of
Miss M feeling that Quidie was not doing what it said it would do.
On 11 July 2022 Miss M raised the complaint I am dealing with which is that Quidie has
failed properly to remove that loan from the credit report which relates to her. After a lot of
correspondence and attempts by Miss M to get to the bottom of the issue, Miss M referred
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 30 August 2022. 
Miss M also raised a dispute with the credit reference agency (CRA) to which the Quidie 
loan had been reported. That CRA has updated Miss M regularly.
Before the complaint at the Financial Ombudsman Service was allocated to an adjudicator,
Quidie responded positively on 13 September 2022. Ive summarised here what that 
resolution email states:
Miss M repaid the loan on 30 May 2022 at the reduced sum as set out in its FRL 
dated 17 February 2022
Quidie received Miss Ms complaint dated 11 July 2022 and on 12 July 2022 it has
told us (and sent screenshots) that the complaint handler deleted the account from
the customers credit file on 12 July 2022
Quidie says its system reports to the CRA once a month and so it says Miss M would 
not have seen that change immediately. 
Quidie went on to say in its submissions to us:
That said, we failed to properly communicate to the customer that the change had
been performed the following day. It is correct that the customer had to contact us
multiple time, but our customer service did not respond properly. The customer was 
charged on the loan £202.63 of interest. We credited her already £100. We propose 
to refund her the ret [sic] of the interest collected of £102.63 together with our 
apologies.
There then followed a great deal of information from Miss M to us and as the complaint took
several months to be allocated to an adjudicator that resolution email (September 2022) was
never communicated to Miss M.
In March 2023, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He thought that the
13 September 2022 resolution was fair. And so, he endorsed that and did not uphold
Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M was not content and said that she had never received a final response letter from
Quidie, that the CRA dispute she had raised with it in September 2022 was still unresolved
which to Miss M indicated that Quidie had failed to respond to that CRA issue as well.
Miss M was not content with a further £102 payment from Quidie and did not think that an
apology through the Financial Ombudsman Service was a good outcome. So, she rejected it
and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
Since I was allocated the complaint and then reviewed it I asked Miss M and Quidie for more
information. Miss M sent through most of what I asked for, and I addressed those points in 
the provisional decision which has been duplicated later in this decision for ease of 
reference. 
Quidie did not respond to my request for information, despite it being informed that the reply 
deadline was 16 June 2023, and that it is possible that the ombudsman would issue her 
decision based on the information available to her if we dont hear back from you by the date 
stated. So, I issued a provisional decision. 
I considered that issuing a provisional decision on 19 June 2023 would bring some degree of 
resolution to the parties. They had a two week period to reply to the provisional decision. 
I am conscious that Miss M paid this loan off over a year ago.
That provisional decision is duplicated here in smaller type to differentiate it. 
My provisional decision dated 19 June 2023 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I could set out here a long list of dates and times 
and incidents. But I have decided Ill take this relatively briefly and set out at the beginning what my 
provisional decision is.
I plan to uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. I plan to make a money award of £300 for
distress and inconvenience and I plan to direct that Quidie does what it said it would do in
relation to the credit file reporting.
I have read all that has been sent to me by both parties and I have noted that Miss M has
sent to us recent email correspondence between her and the CRA which indicates that the
dispute she had raised with it in September 2022 remains in an odd state of suspension.
I say that because when Miss M raised the dispute with the CRA to try to resolve her issue 
that she wanted the loan to be removed  it did supress the loan reporting - meaning that
the loan could not be seen. But it said it had not heard from Quidie and so that state ofsuppression remained in place as recently as 13 June 2023and that Quidie had not
contacted it.
Miss M is concerned that this temporary state of the loan being supressed is not going to
last. And her agreement with Quidie was that the loan would be removed completely. And I
consider that concern a justified one.
I do not know about internal disputes with CRAs and so that is not a matter for me to focus
on or to resolve. Its a matter between Miss M, the CRA and Quidie.
Going back further in time, Quidies resolution email sent to us in September 2022 accepted
that it had failed in its communication with Miss M. That email also failed Miss M as if that
had been sent to Miss M as a final response letter to her legitimate complaint from
11 July 2022 then she would have had the opportunity to know the situation and to choose to
accept it. So, this was poor complaint handling as Miss M never received an FRL from
Quidie on this.
But that September 2022 resolution email to us also demonstrates another failing. The
screenshots it sent to us in September 2022 are unclear and I have asked for clarity on them
and not had any response. But even without the clarity on the wording and/or the actions
taken on that date, it shows me that Quidie has accepted it failed to delete the
November 2021 loan from Miss Ms credit file as soon as she had paid it off as it had agreed
to do. It took Miss Ms complaint of 11 July 2022 to prompt that action which was six weeks
after it had received the final payment from Miss M on 30 May 2022.
Miss M has amply demonstrated all the times she has had to contact Quidie, try to contact
Quidie, deal with what she considers its inadequate responses and has resorted to raising a
dispute with the CRA which has assisted to an extent but not wholly.
And my provisional view is that Quidie has failed to do what it said it would do. Not just
between 30 May 2022 (when the loan was repaid) and September 2022 when it has
accepted in its email to us that it ..failed to properly communicate and its customer service
did not respond properly. I do not need to go into that as its been admitted by Quidie.
But since that date, the responses have been poor and Miss M still has not received any
FRL for the July 2022 complaint. Miss M has satisfactorily demonstrated to me that the CRA
dispute is in that odd state of limbo which means  as she has outlined  that the loan may
reappear again when that dispute may be closed without Quidie responding.
Miss M has also demonstrated to me that she even emailed both the CRA and Quidie at the
same time  in one email - to try to get them to sort it out between them  meaning she was
asking Quidie to do what it needed to do and what it had promised her it would do.
I am not persuaded that Quidies response that it has done what it needed to do and so it
need not do more, is enough. 
Ive asked for account notes, recorded calls and other matters to get to the bottom of this and not 
received them.
On the matters raised by Miss M about the way she was spoken to on the telephone  I have
no evidence of this as I have no recorded calls from Quidie and so I make no finding.
On the matters surrounding Miss M having told us that she had told Quidie about her
disabilities then I have received no details of what Quidie may or may not have recorded in
its account notes and so I make no finding on that.
On the poor complaint handling, I do acknowledge that on current evidence it seems that
Miss M never received an FRL for the July 2022 complaint. But I do not consider that a separate 
distress and inconvenience payment is justified as the matters are so integrated that the £300 
planned as an award reflects the distress and inconvenience Miss M has experienced overall.
On current evidence I plan to uphold Miss Ms complaint in part.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has responded and has agreed to the £300 award. She has sent us additional copies 
of some historic texts. Quidie has not replied.
As Miss M has agreed to the award of £300 and as Quidie has sent nothing further to 
persuade me away from that outcome then I am repeating here all my provisional findings 
and they form part of this final decision.
For the reasons given, I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. 
Putting things right
For the distress and inconvenience to Miss M, I make a money award of £300 payable 
directly to Miss M within 28 days of Miss M accepting this final determination if she does 
accept.
And I direct that within 28 days of Miss M accepting this final determination, if she does 
accept, that Quidie does what it said it would do in relation to the credit file reporting in its 
original FRL of February 2022. And if that means liaising with the CRA involved in the 
dispute raised by Miss M than it needs to do that. The record needs to be deleted and not 
simply supressed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I make a money award to Miss M and I direct that Quidie Limited 
trading as Fernovo does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman