DRN-3131634
The complaint
Ms G says esure Insurance Limited mis-handled a claim made on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2020 Ms Gs partner, a named driver on Ms Gs car insurance policy, was involved 
in an incident with another vehicle. The named driver reported the incident to esure the 
same day, also telling them there was no damage to either car and that he had a supporting 
witness. The named driver sent images of the third-partys car to the email address provided 
by esure in the call.
Ms G heard nothing further from esure regarding the incident until November 2020. That was 
when her policy was due for renewal and she noticed the premium had increased since the 
previous year by around £400. esure told her that, in the meantime, a fault claim had been 
settled for the incident in June 2020 and that shed lost her no claims discount (NCD) as 
result  that was (partly at least) the reason why the premium had gone up by so much.  
Believing that esure had mis-handled the claim by not properly investigating it or informing 
Ms G of the outcome, she complained to esure. A manager at esure spoke to Ms G and the 
named driver but they couldnt resolve the issue and so the matter was escalated internally. 
esure issued a final response saying that it could have handled things better but that Ms G 
hadnt lost out because of any failings on its part.
esure said, in particular, it should have acted on the images Ms G had sent but in any case, 
that they didnt provide any evidence with which to challenge the third-party claim. It said the 
cost of repair was relatively small at £398.90 and so there wasnt any need to investigate the 
claim further. Because esure hadnt made Ms G aware it had settled the claim until well after 
the event, it gave her the option of reimbursing its outlay which would allow it to reinstate her 
NCD.    
Unhappy, Ms G brought her complaint to us. Among other things, she said esures failure to 
notify her of the claim had denied her the opportunity to challenge it and perhaps secure a 
more favourable outcome. Ms G wanted esure to reinstate her NCD without her having to 
pay the cost of the claim.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. They felt that Ms G and her partner had been consistent in arguing that there was no 
damage to either car involved and that there was an independent witness in support of that. 
The investigator said esure had led Ms G and the named driver to believe from the outset 
that any claim would be investigated and that thered be no pay out unless theyd caused 
damage. But the investigator thought esure had ultimately settled the claim without properly 
investigating it. To put things right, the investigator believed esure should change the way 
the incident had been recorded both internally, and on the insurance database it had used, 
to reflect a notification only outcome that would allow Ms Gs NCD to be restored. 
The investigator also believed esure should pay Ms G £200 as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its handling of the claim, and of her subsequent complaint, had caused. 
In particular, the investigator felt the manager at esure who had called Ms G to discuss the 
claim had been unprofessional.
esure didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said it had been entitled to settle the 
claim as it did, given the minimal damage costs and despite the images Ms G had provided. 
esure added that it believed the manager had handled the call well and had apologised to 
her several times for the handling of the claim. 
The complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I considered the complaint and issued my 
provisional decision in October 2021. In it, I explained why I intended to uphold the complaint 
in part. Essentially, I thought that although esure could have handled the claim better than it 
did, I couldnt fairly say this had impacted on how the claim itself was settled. I believed 
esures previous offer to allow Ms G to cover the cost of the claim in return for reinstating her 
NCD was fair. I asked esure to pay her £300 to compensate for its poor claims-handling.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Ms G said she 
didnt have anything to add.
esure didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said obtaining evidence of the third-partys 
claim costs wouldnt have changed anything other than delaying the claim. It didnt 
understand why Id mentioned loss of opportunity in my decision and asked what I was 
referring to. esure said even if it agreed it had handled matter poorly (which it didnt), my 
recommended award of £300 was excessive in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, its not for me to decide liability for the incident as this is 
the role of the courts. But I can look at: 
whether esure reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy terms; and 
at how it treated Ms G and the named driver. 
Having done so, and after considering the responses to my provisional decision, Ive decided 
to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The claim and the implications for Ms G
As I said in my previous decision, its accepted that Ms Gs partner was involved in a road 
traffic accident involving a third party that resulted in a claim. I note the policy terms and 
conditions say that, in dealing with any claim, esure has:
 full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own 
benefit.
Terms like these are commonly found in motor insurance policies Ive seen. The terms gave 
esure quite a wide discretion in how to handle the claim. 
That being the case, Ive looked carefully at whether esure exercised that discretion fairly on 
this occasion. In doing that, Ive considered the evidence esure relied on in settling the claim, 
which appears to be very limited due  it says  to the relatively low value of the claim. In principle, I dont disagree with esures overall approach here in that depending on the 
surrounding circumstances, the lower the value of the claim, the less investigation it might be 
reasonable to expect it to undertake. By contrast, more rigorous investigation might 
ordinarily be expected the higher the claim value.
And I note what esure says about there being a R.I.P.E. (reduction in paper exchange) 
agreement with the third-party insurer, whereby insurers agree with each other on a goodwill 
basis to take the other insurers word on the amount due.   
Having said that, esure was made aware on the day the incident happened that the named 
driver was strongly of the view that, while contact had been made with the third-party car, no 
damage had been done. esure was also informed there was a witness that could apparently 
support this. Whats more, during the initial call esure assured the named driver that it 
wouldnt pay any claim without investigating the damage and that, if the named driver hadnt 
caused the damage, it wouldnt pay out. The named driver was told that if the third-party 
made a claim then esure would keep them updated. No mention was made of the possibility 
of there being a R.I.P.E. agreement or what that might mean for Ms G or the named driver.
Despite being given those assurances, esure agreed to settle the claim in July 2020 without 
investigation or discussion with Ms G and the named driver  or even their knowledge. esure 
didnt attempt to contact Ms G to confirm its decision to settle until almost three months later, 
by which time there was little she could realistically do to challenge it.    
In its response to my provisional decision, esure says it didnt handle matter poorly. But I 
think the above examples suggest otherwise. More than that, esure upheld Ms Gs complaint 
in part in its final response, saying among other things:
 I do agree that things could have been handled better at points.
 you sent an email to us with images of the third party car. These images werent 
forwarded to the correct team so no action was taken in that respect Im sorry this 
is the case and Id like to assure you this will be addressed with the team 
involved
I do think we should have acted on the images you sent us
So, as esure accepted previously (but, for some reason, doesnt seem to now), mistakes 
were made in how it handled the claim. And Ive little doubt that esures actions fell far short 
of Ms Gs and the named drivers reasonable expectations of how it would conduct the claim.
Ms G and the named driver have come across to me as being nothing less than co-operative 
with esure and entirely genuine. But Ive no way of knowing on balance that, had they been 
given the opportunity to challenge esures decision to settle in July 2020, the outcome would 
have been any different. I acknowledge that there appears to be little sign of damage in the 
images Ms G and the named driver provided but that doesnt mean that no damage was 
caused whatsoever. And although they say there was a witness, theres no way of knowing 
what theyd have said, or been prepared to say, at the relevant time or even that this would 
have supported their account of the events.
It follows that, while I think esure havent handled the claim well, the available evidence 
(from either party) doesnt go so far as to indicate to me that it incorrectly recorded the claim 
either internally or on the external insurance database. 
Because of that, unlike the investigator, Im not prepared to require esure to change the way 
it recorded the claim in the way they envisaged.More appropriate, I believe, was esures option for Ms G to reimburse its outlay for the claim 
to allow it to close the claim as recovery  yes. It said this would allow the reinstatement of 
Ms Gs NCD and potentially be of benefit to her in arranging cover in future. 
I think, though, regardless of esures offer, that Ms Gs owed compensation. Thats for the 
loss of opportunity shes suffered through esures actions in the sense of her being denied 
the chance to question and challenge esures handling of the claim. And for the avoidable 
distress caused in discovering the claim had been settled without her, or the named driver, 
knowing about it or being given a proper opportunity to be heard.
To be clear, this aspect of the compensation Im awarding isnt for esure reaching an unfair 
outcome. Its about how esure treated Ms G in reaching its decision.
Customer service and the call with a manager at esure
In early November 2020, Ms G was told a manager would call her about her claim and 
complaint. Ms G had to chase for a response and a manager eventually called her on 
9 November 2020.
When the manager called, Ms G and the named driver both wanted to be included in the 
conversation on speaker phone. At that point the manager refused to continue, only 
apparently relenting when the named driver explained English wasnt their first language and 
that they needed Ms Gs help to continue.
Ms G raised the issue of esure holding the wrong postal address for her on its files. The 
manager acknowledged its mistake but didnt offer any explanation as to how the error might 
have come about or, more importantly, apologise for it.
In my view, throughout the call the manager was defensive, unhelpful and lacking in 
empathy. It was clear Ms G and her partner were justifiably unhappy with esure and yet the 
manager seemed unprepared to do anything to help put things right other than to once again 
escalate the matter internally. 
Theres little doubt in my mind that, while the intervention of the manager presented an 
opportunity for esure to get the matter back on track, the managers handling of the call only 
served to make the situation worse. I think this only added to Ms Gs and the named drivers 
existing frustration and I believe that compensation for this is due as a result.
Im sorry that esure views my overall recommendation as excessive in the circumstances. 
But Id emphasise that Ive not fully upheld the complaint. I believe the amounts a fair 
reflection of the impact of esures actions in the areas Ive mentioned. 
Putting things right
I believe esure should: 
Reaffirm its offer to give Ms G the option of reimbursing it for the cost of the claim. 
This would allow it to reinstate her NCD up to that point; and 
Regardless of whether Ms G takes the above option, pay her £300 as compensation 
for the loss of opportunity to challenge esure, for the way it treated her during the 
claim and for its response to the concerns raised about its handling of it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited to put things right as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman