DRN-2914395
The complaint
Mr E complains M & G Securities Limited (M & G) arent accurately presenting the total 
amount hes invested with them when he views his account. As a result, hes unable to 
reconcile his investment and believes hes suffered a loss.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr E contacted M & G after receiving an update regarding an 
investment he held with them. He was unhappy with the figures shown as the amount hed 
invested didnt accurately reflect the contributions hed made to his account.
M & G said a withdrawal Mr E had made in July 2020 had taken the total amount hed 
invested into a minus balance, this was due to growth on his investment at the time. They 
explained the way their systems presented the amount invested by a client meant he wasnt 
shown a negative balance, but they assured him the actual value of his investment displayed 
was correct.
Mr E remained dissatisfied as he was still unable to reconcile his investment. He said he 
couldnt accept M & G had paid out more funds to him in July 2020 than he had available at 
the time. Mr E raised a formal complaint with M & G citing possible fraudulent activity.
M & G investigated and explained to Mr E again why the amount that hed invested he could 
see on his dashboard didnt reflect the actual payments hed made to his account. M & G 
assured Mr E fraudulent activity hadnt taken place on his account and that all withdrawals 
and investments presented were those instructed by him.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with M & Gs final response. M & G responded again to explain the 
withdrawal Mr E had made consisted of the total amount hed invested up to that point, plus 
the growth on his investment. But because the total amount invested is merely a reflection of 
the funds physically deposited by a client, due to the withdrawal of the growth as well, hed 
effectively withdrawn more funds than hed paid. M & G said their internal systems wouldnt 
show a positive figure until the minus amount had been covered.
Mr E still wasnt satisfied with M & Gs response. He said he was of the opinion they were 
providing him with false information, and it appeared theyd transferred the incorrect amount 
to him when hed made the withdrawal in July 2020. As Mr E remained unhappy, he referred 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things. She explained that M & G had acknowledged the manner 
in which their systems present information mayve caused Mr E distress and inconvenience. 
By way of an apology they offered Mr E £100 compensation. She also told Mr E M & G had 
confirmed they were in the process of reviewing their systems.
But our investigator felt M & G had given Mr E a detailed explanation as to the position of his 
investment and was satisfied hed not suffered a financial loss. She also felt M & Gs offer 
was an appropriate award for the level of distress caused.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view. He thought being offered £100 when M & G 
were retaining a much larger sum of his money from him was insulting. Our investigator 
reiterated to Mr E she was satisfied he wasnt at a financial loss but Mr E remained unhappy, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 First, I want to say I understand Mr Es concerns. Hes making monthly contributions to his 
account and understandably wants reassurance his money is being invested in full, and that 
hes being presented with the correct information about his investment. 
But Ive looked at the information M & G have provided, and Im satisfied Mr E isnt at a 
financial loss, rather it is the way M & G present information which has caused confusion. Ill 
explain why.
In July 2020, Mr E withdrew £25,762.84, this was the full value of his investment at the time. 
But as of July 2020, Mr E had only physically invested £25,118.21. The remaining £664.63 
was the capital growth his investment had increased by. Its important to say the withdrawal 
amount was correct. Whilst Mr E has concerns M & G allowed him to withdraw more than he 
shouldve in error, the value of his investment had increased, and the full amount was his to 
withdraw.
Directly following the withdrawal, Mr E received an update from M & G. It said the total 
amount Mr E had invested was £0.00 and the total value of his investment was also £0.00. 
This is what Mr E expected to see and was of the understanding as he continued to 
contribute £500 per month, the amount invested would be reflected accordingly.
However, M & Gs internal systems calculate the total amount any given client of theirs has 
invested differently, simply deducting the full amount withdrawn from the total amount 
invested, which due to growth will often present a minus figure.
In Mr Es case this meant at the time of his withdrawal, due to the growth his investment had 
achieved, M & Gs internal systems recorded him as having invested -£664.63 and placed 
the value of his investment at £0.00.
M & G say its a business decision not to reflect a minus figure on either their clients online 
dashboards, or on the investment updates they provide. Theyve explained this is because 
the total invested amount is only to demonstrate how much physical cash has been added or 
removed from the investment. And the total invested amount doesnt impact the total value 
of an investment.
But when Mr E continued to invest, this meant his contributions were initially reducing the 
minus balance first and only appeared to reflect on his dashboard and updates after M & Gs 
internal systems showed a positive balance. 
I understand why this caused Mr E confusion, as understandably after making two further 
contributions of £500, he expected to see his total invested amount as being £1000, but the 
data he could see was telling him hed invested only £355.37. 
However, the information of importance here is the value of Mr Es investment, and this is 
what satisfies me hes not suffered a financial loss. At the point of which Mr Es total invested 
amount was showing as £355.37, the value of his investment was £1,014.78. This amount is 
made up of Mr Es two £500 contributions and further growth to his investment of £14.78. 
This is exactly what Id expect to see, and this figure was available to Mr E both on his online 
dashboard and in the updates he received from M & G.
Ive looked at the months that followed and Im satisfied Mr Es investment continued to work 
as it was expected to and the full amount of his contributions continued to be invested as 
hed instructed.
M & G have acknowledged the presentation of this information could be clearer, and whilst 
its not for me to tell a business how they should run, Im pleased theyve confirmed they are 
currently reviewing a system update so when investors make a full withdrawal, the total invested figure will be reset to £0.00 both on their clients dashboards as well as on M & Gs 
internal systems.
This will mean that should investors choose to make further contributions to their 
investments after making a withdrawal, the total invested figure will show the amount 
invested from a zero position. 
Whilst I do hope Mr E will agree this is a positive change M & G are looking to implement, 
Im aware it doesnt help remove the distress and inconvenience the confusion has already 
caused him. M & G have offered Mr E £100 compensation by way of an apology. Ive 
thought about this and considering the circumstances, I think this is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint.
So, in summary, Im satisfied Mr E has not suffered a financial loss and M & G have invested 
his money in full as instructed. But they should pay Mr E £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
Putting things right
M & G Securities Limited should pay Mr E £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that M & G Securities Limited should, as it has agreed:
pay Mr E £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman