DRN-1538650
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Zenith Insurance plc unfairly settled a claim against his van 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L was reversing into a parking space when his neighbour accused him of hitting their car. 
Mr L didnt think hed made contact with the car but said hed pay for the damage if his 
neighbour could show the damage. 
Mr Ls neighbour reported the incident to their insurer who asked Zenith to reimburse them 
for the repairs. Mr L didnt think hed caused any damage, but Zenith agreed to settle the 
claim, after its engineer said the damage was consistent with the neighbours account of 
what happened. 
Mr L was unhappy with Zeniths decision as he didnt think hed caused any damage. He 
said having a fault claim against him had impacted his no claims discount (NCD). Zenith said 
it didnt think it would be able to prove it was most likely Mr L hadnt caused the damage. But 
it thought some aspects of its service could have been better and paid Mr L £75 
compensation.  
As he remained unhappy Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint but thought Zenith had carried out a reasonable investigation that was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. She also thought Mr Ls NCD had been correctly 
impacted. So, she didnt ask Zenith to do anything else. 
Mr L disagreed and provided photos of his van next to his neighbours car. He said it wasnt 
possible for his tow bar to have caused the damage to the car due to the toe bar being lower 
than the area of damage. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide whether Mr L caused the damage to his neighbours car, as thats 
the role of the court. Instead I look to see if Zenith made a fair and reasonable decision, 
thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The terms of Mr Ls policy give Zenith the right to take over and defend or settle a claim as it 
sees fit. That means it might make a decision Mr L disagrees with, but the policy allows it to 
do so. 
In order to assess the claim Zenith received photos of the car, along with an engineers 
report setting out the damage that had been repaired. So, the engineers report shows there 
was damage to the car. Zenith asked its own engineer for comments and its engineer 
thought the damage to the other car was consistent with the neighbours version of what 
happened. On the basis of the information from the engineer I think it was reasonable for 
Zenith to settle the claim. 
When Mr L provided further photos of his car next to his neighbours, Zenith again passed 
these to its engineer for comment. The engineer circled the areas of the tow bar that could 
have caused damage and explained that while the photos might show there was a height 
difference while parked next to each other, this can differ depending on the van being loaded 
or unloaded, as well as the angle Mr L was reversing at. The engineer didnt think it was 
possible to say Mr L definitely didnt cause the damage. 
I can appreciate Mr Ls frustration at what happened because he didnt think he caused any 
damage to his neighbours car and hes provided photos to show his tow bar looks to be 
lower than the other car. However, I still think it was fair for Zenith to say it wouldnt be able 
to prove it was most likely Mr L didnt cause the damage, based on its engineers comments. 
As Mr L has a fault claim against him, this impacted his NCD as set out in the terms of his 
policy. So, I think Zenith acted fairly and in line with the policy here.
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr L, but I think Zenith settled the 
claim against him fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman