DRN-3331090
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the Lifetime Cover policy she was sold by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds). 
She understood the policy was a savings plan but has been told if she stops paying the 
premiums the policy would end and she would lose all the previous money paid. Shes 
unhappy because she thought she had built up enough funds to reduce the premiums and 
keep the same level of cover. 
What happened
Mrs M met with an adviser from Lloyds in November 2013. The advisor interviewed her 
about her circumstances and made a recommendation including the Lifetime Cover policy. 
This was a whole of life policy. He also recommended other policies, but these were 
declined by Mrs M. 
In 2021, Mrs M sought to reduce her expenditure and contacted Lloyds about reducing the 
premiums. She complained when they told her this would reduce her level of cover and she 
would receive nothing back if she cancelled the policy. She thought she had paid enough 
into the policy to enable her to reduce the premiums. 
 
Lloyds responded to the complaint in May 2021. They felt the advisor hadnt done anything 
wrong when he recommended the policy. They said he had recorded information about Mrs 
Ms circumstances and priorities, and the Lifetime Cover policy was suitable in the 
circumstances. Also, that the documentation from the point of sale was clear that the policy 
wasnt a savings plan. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The Investigator issued their view 
explaining why she felt Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs M didnt agree with the view. She explained that she didnt understand what she was 
signing up for and doesnt see why Lloyds cant reduce the premium and keep the same 
level of cover. She said she trusted Lloyds and didnt want to lose the money she had put in. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs M understood this was a savings policy and was distressed when she 
realised that if she cancelled the policy, she would receive nothing back. Ive reviewed the 
Financial Report which was sent to Mrs M on 14 November 2013. In respect of the Lifetime 
Cover policy, the advisor explained that Mrs M would need to continue the payments to 
ensure cover remained in place. Also, that the premiums could exceed the total benefit 
payable. 
To accompany this, she was also sent a Key Features document. This set out the risks of 
the policy and stated there was no cash in value at any time. Also, the benefit would stop if 
premiums were not paid and Mrs M would not get anything back. It additionally set out that 
the amount paid in premiums over the course of the policy could exceed the benefit. She 
was also sent a Policy Provisions document which went on to explain the policy in greater 
detail. It also set out that there would be no surrender value. 
Therefore, Ive seen no reference to this policy being a savings plan in documentation Ive 
been provided. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds provided reasonable 
information about the policy so Mrs M could understand how it worked at the time she took it 
out. In particular, it was reasonably clear there was no cash in value and on this basis 
couldnt be considered a savings plan. 
I know Mrs M is concerned Lloyds havent agreed to reduce the premiums and keep the 
same level of cover. However, the premiums dont accumulate in this type of policy in the 
way described by Mrs M. But its not money she has lost either. Instead, the premiums paid 
for cover and she had the benefit of knowing this cover would pay out a cash lump sum if 
she had passed away. In light of this, it was reasonable for Lloyds to say they wouldnt 
reduce the premiums. They provided a new quote for another policy with lower premiums 
and a lower level of cover.
 
Ive also thought about whether the policy recommended was suitable. Ive reviewed the 
documentation available from the point of sale. This includes the Financial Report and 
Protection Analysis Report. In these documents the advisor recorded his findings from the 
meeting he had with Mrs M. I can see he made a record of Mrs Ms circumstances including 
her income, expenditure, liabilities, existing policies (including employee benefits) and 
savings. He also calculated disposable income and considered available cash in the event of 
financial emergencies. 
The advisor also obtained information about Mrs Ms priorities and objectives at the time. 
This included providing expenses on death because she did not want her family to suffer 
financially. This was described as a top priority. The documentation Ive seen satisfies me 
that the advisor obtained sufficient information about Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives 
in order to make a recommendation. 
Based on this, the advisor recommended the Lifetime Cover policy with cover of around 
£4,000. In the Suitability Report, the advisor confirmed that they had used a funeral expense 
calculator which I can see added the usual expenses associated with a funeral to reach an 
estimated figure. The advisor recorded that Mrs M was happy with this amount of cover. 
Also, the advisor concluded that the monthly premiums would be affordable in the 
circumstances described by Mrs M and her plans for the future. This seems reasonable 
based on what is recorded of Mrs Ms financial situation including disposable income and her 
plans. 
Having thought carefully about this, Im content the Lifetime Cover policy was suitable. It was 
written in trust and intended to provide cover for the whole of Mrs Ms life. If Mrs M died, the 
policy would have paid out to the beneficiary in order to cover funeral expenses. This meant 
Mrs Ms family wouldnt incur this expense, and this was a priority for her at the time. 
Therefore, Im content the policy was suitable as it met Mrs Ms objective and at the time it 
seemed that it would be affordable. 
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing for Mrs M who is concerned about the 
premiums she has already paid for the policy. She wants Lloyds to reduce the premiums but 
keep the same level of cover. However, she was recommended a suitable policy and was 
provided with sufficient information to understand how that policy worked. Mrs M has had the 
benefit of being covered over the course of the policy. And Im content it was made 
reasonably clear at the point of sale that this was not a savings plan. Therefore, I wont be 
asking Lloyds to do anything to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman