DRN-3631022
The complaint
Mr M complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) wouldnt extend its timescales to 
provide the necessary documentation to purchase premium bonds for his grandson.
What happened
Mr M says on 10 November 2021 he purchased £1,000 of Premium Bonds (PB) from NS&I 
for his grandson following his birth that day. NS&I s requirement was for proof of identity 
within 21 days, but Mr M says due to the Covid pandemic issues, his daughter wasnt able to 
register her sons birth until 6 December 2021 and therefore obtain the identification required 
in time. 
Mr M says although he alerted NS&I to the problem it refused to change the timescales to 
register the identification with them, even though the delay couldnt be avoided. Mr M says 
other institutions have adopted a more flexible approach and NS&I should align its 
identification requirements with the Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages given they are 
both government agencies. 
Mr M says NS&I should review its requirement to register identification within 21 days and 
allow the PB account to be opened from the date of its purchase and was willing to forego 
entry into any prize draw until the identification was provided. 
NS&I says Mr M would have been aware identification would be required at the time he 
purchased the PBs for his grandson. NS&I says it wrote to the nominated parent on the day 
of the purchase of the PBs asking for identification documents to be provided within 21 
days. 
NS&I says it needs to confirm the identity and address details of all its customers to satisfy 
money laundering regulations. NS&I says it was unable to comment on other institutions 
procedures and practices. NS&I says it was unable to amend the timeframe.
Mr M wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt he couldnt hold NS&I responsible for delays in registering his grandsons 
birth. The investigator says Mr M chose to go ahead with the purchase of the PBs knowing 
his grandsons birth hadnt been registered. The investigator didnt feel it would be 
reasonable to tell NS&I to change its identification procedures. 
The investigator acknowledged NS&I had previously backdated a PB purchase but that was 
because it had made an error, but that wasnt the case here. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr M having purchased PBs for his 
grandson, to discover his daughter, due to the Covid pandemic, wasnt able to register her 
sons birth within the timescales NS&I had set.   
When looking at this complaint I will consider if NS&I acted unreasonably when it refused to 
register and backdate the purchase of the PBs Mr M had paid for. 
Mr Ms complaint centres around the fact NS&I have refused to show any flexibility in its 
timescales to provide the identification it requested after he purchased PBs for his 
grandson. Mr M makes the point that through no fault of his own or his family, due to the 
issues of the Covid pandemic they were unable to register the birth of his grandson until 
after the 21-day requirement NS&I had in place. 
Mr M says that other institutions have less rigid timescales and bearing in mind the Registry 
of Births Deaths and Marriages and NS&I are both government agencies, it could apply 
some general latitude in the application of its rules. 
I understand the points Mr M makes here but Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this because he would have been aware at the time of the purchase, identification would be 
required for his grandson and the timescales for this were provided to the parent that same 
day. Its also worth saying that this requirement is necessary for all NS&I PB applicants to 
meet its money laundering requirements not just for new-born applicants. Its fair to say 
NS&I arent singling out Mr M here, this 21-day requirement is needed for everyone who 
purchases PBs. This is in part to ensure the integrity of the prize draw as explained by the 
investigator. 
Even though some institutions may have different procedures and processes, its not my or 
this services role to tell NS&I it must change its own requirements accordingly or link its 
processes to other governmental agencies, like the Registrar of Births. Afterall the 21-day 
requirement as I have previously mentioned isnt simply in place for new-born applicants -its 
for all new PB accounts. 
While Mr M says NS&I have previously shown flexibility and provided details of another PB 
purchase he had made, this was a separate matter where NS&I had accepted it made an 
error  but it hasnt here. 
So, while I understand the delay in obtaining the documents wasnt Mr Ms doing neither was 
it an error by NS&I, so it would be unfair of me to tell NS&I it must make an exception in 
these circumstances. I can see Mr M had the PB purchase refunded by NS&I, in early 
December 2021. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NS&I. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman