DRN-3811421
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) initially refunded him after he raised a 
dispute for a holiday he never received, but then re-debited his account leaving him 
overdrawn. 
What happened
Between 28 May 2019 and 3 February 2020, Mr M made four transactions totalling £883.10 
with his Lloyds debit card to pay for a holiday. The holiday was booked with a company I 
shall call R and Mr M was due to go in March 2020.
Unfortunately, due to the global Covid-19 pandemic the holiday was cancelled. Following the 
cancellation, a holiday to a different destination was arranged. Sadly, that to was later 
cancelled. 
Mr M has said that he was in contact with R regarding a refund. This was until Mr M says he 
was made aware that R had gone into liquidation and a new company, I shall call L, had 
taken over the claim/refund process. Mr M has explained that following this he was in 
contact with L regarding a refund. 
On 8 April 2022, L sent Mr M an email advising the next step was for him to submit a 
chargeback claim with the bank whose debit card he had used to pay for the holiday. Mr M 
contacted Lloyds and raised his chargeback dispute the next day.
Lloyds initially accepted the chargeback for the four transactions and refunded Mr M the full 
£883.10. However, Lloyds later re-debited the £883.10, saying it was out of time to raise the 
chargeback dispute. Extremely unhappy with this, Mr M contacted Lloyds and raised a 
formal complaint. 
Lloyds issued its final response on 26 May 2022. It repeated that the chargeback had been 
raised outside of the timeframe permitted and so it wasnt able to help further. Lloyds paid Mr 
M £50 for not sending any letter advising the £883.10 would be re-debited, leaving him 
overdrawn. 
Mr M did not agree with Lloyds outcome and so referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that Lloyds was correct in advising 
the chargeback had been raised too late. Mr M disagreed and said he contacted Lloyds 
immediately after he was first made aware by L that he could now go to his bank. This hadnt 
been advised to him before and at no point was he made aware of any time limits. 
As Mr M remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to Mr M contacting Lloyds in April 2022, it was not aware of his dispute. When Mr M 
made Lloyds aware, it initially looked to see if it could assist Mr M in retrieving a refund via 
the chargeback process. Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme. For Mr Ms 
debit card, the relevant card scheme is VISA. 
A consumer is not entitled to chargeback by right. But where there are grounds to raise one 
and it has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one to be raised by the 
card issuer. Once a refund is requested by a consumer the card issuer will usually look at 
the card scheme rules to see if the nature of the dispute is covered under the list of possible 
chargeback reasons. If so, relevant evidence might be requested to back up the claim and 
the chargeback is raised. 
Looking at the dates of the disputed transactions and the VISA chargeback rules, I dont 
believe this chargeback had any chance of being successful. However, Lloyds did initially 
accept the chargeback and provide a refund to Mr M. It did this based on the email from L 
dated 8 April 2022, that advised Mr M to now contact his bank. However, after reviewing the 
chargeback further, Lloyds concluded it was out of time and so couldnt pursue it further. Mr 
Ms account was therefore re-debited. 
The VISA chargeback rules which gives the full list of dispute reason codes that can be used 
to raise a chargeback. Having considered these reason codes, the most likely code Lloyds 
would have used in this case is merchandise/services not received. 
The rules explain the time limits under which a dispute of this nature can be raised. These 
state: 
A dispute must be processed within either: 
120 calendar days of either: 
- The Transaction Processing Date
- The date the Cardholder received the merchandise or services4
4Not to exceed 540 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date.
Taking the above rules that Lloyds is bound by into consideration, the dispute would need to 
have been raised within 540 calendar days of the transaction processing date. Taking the 
latest processing date of Mr Ms four disputed payments, that transaction is dated 3 
February 2020. 540 days from then would be 27 July 2021. Mr M didnt contact Lloyds until 
April 2022.
I appreciate that Mr M says that he was told by R and L to not contact his bank due to an 
ongoing court case. However, Lloyds cannot be held responsible for advice given by third 
parties. Im satisfied Lloyds has correctly advised Mr M that his chargeback is out if time and 
that it wasnt able to help further. 
Ive listened to Mr Ms call with Lloyds when he first contacted it to raise his dispute. On this 
call the advisor did explain that the refunds could be taken back out of his account. Despite 
this, I do believe that Lloyds shouldve contacted Mr M to advise it was going to re-debit him. 
I can see that Lloyds has paid Mr M £50 for not notifying him. 
While I understand Mr M would have been very worried to find his account overdrawn, he 
was still correctly advised the refunds could be taken out. Im therefore satisfied the £50 
Lloyds has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I appreciate the position Mr M finds himself in is a difficult one. Mr M is being asked to pay 
for something that through no fault of his own he never had the benefit of. However, Lloyds 
must adhere to the VISA time limits that apply. As Ive said above, Im satisfied in this case 
that Lloyds correctly advised Mr M the time limits had passed for it to be able to raise the 
dispute. In addition, the £50 already paid is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Lloyds not letting Mr M know the refunds would be re-debited.
Mr M has advised that his account with Lloyds is still overdrawn, and the situation is affecting 
his health. I would remind Lloyds of its obligation to treat Mr M with forbearance and due 
consideration if he is currently in financial difficulty. I can see that Lloyds has offered the help 
of its Financial Assistance Team. I leave it up to Mr M to decide whether he requires any 
assistance moving forward.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman