DRN-4081319
Complaint
Mr G complains that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
Background
Lendable provided Mr G with a loan for £2,000.00 in November 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 23 monthly instalments of £113.58 and a final instalment of £63.71.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Lendable had told us. And he thought that 
Lendable hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Gs complaint be upheld. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr G 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Mr G with a loan for £2,000.00 in June 2021. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 instalments of around £115. Lendable says it agreed to Mr Gs application after 
he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr G could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr G has said the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and Lendable have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lendable has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Lendable searches appear to show that Mr G had some existing debts. However, 
Mr Gs debt total at the time of this application was reasonable in comparison to his income 
and his existing commitments appeared to be relatively well managed too. So I dont think 
that there were any obvious difficulties or warning signs that it would have been reasonable 
for Lendable to have taken account of.
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. Equally, I accept that if 
Lendable checks had gone into greater depth it may have reached a different answer. 
But the key here is that Lendable was providing a loan with relatively low monthly payments 
over a relatively short period of time. Given the information obtained suggested the loans 
were affordable and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think Lendable needed to do 
anything further. This is especially as Ive not been provided with anything at all to support 
the notion that the loan payments were actually unaffordable.
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr G - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr G. But I hope that Mr G will understand the reasons for my final decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman