DRN-3247387
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs T are unhappy Santander UK Plc havent refunded money they lost as a result 
of a scam. 
Mr R is the main complainant to this service so for ease of reading, Ill only refer to him 
throughout the decision. 
What happened
In 2016 an investment opportunity was recommended to Mr R via an ex-colleague of his. 
Mr R said he had completed all the necessary checks to ensure the investment was valid 
and he met the two directors of a merchant Ill refer to here as C. Mr R was told his 
investment involved money being lent to C for it to forex trade and his loan would be repaid 
on a monthly basis. 
So, in 2016 Mr R sent £100,000 via a Santander branch to C. He then received £1,250 a 
month from C from January 2017 to August 2017 in line with his expectations of how the 
investment would work. In 2017 Mr R wanted to send a further £100,000 to Cs bank (in 
Denmark) in Europe  which forms the basis for this complaint. He sent two international 
payments, each for £50,000. One in July 2017 and the other in August 2017 both of which 
were instructed in branch. 
Mr R then discovered that Cs assets had become frozen. He then contacted Santander in 
2021 to raise a claim to get his money back. Santander considered the claim but said it 
didnt do anything wrong, so it wasnt going to refund Mr R. Mr R remained unhappy so he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that she hadnt seen 
any persuasive evidence Santander was aware of any issues with Cs bank at the time of the 
payments that wouldve made Santander suspicious of the payments Mr R was making. 
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Santander failed to 
carry out sufficient checks on the receiving bank. And if it had done so it wouldve been 
aware of the issues with the receiving bank. He said if those checks had been completed by 
Santander and he had been made aware of the issues with the receiving bank, he wouldnt 
have continued with the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
After reviewing the file, Im satisfied Mr R was the victim of a scam. Which leads me to 
consider whether his payments were sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic for Santander 
to ask probing questions about why he was making the payments. But even if I thought the 
payments shouldve been stopped by Santander, that doesnt automatically mean the scam 
wouldve been stopped. Thats because even if I was satisfied they were unusual, Im not 
satisfied Santander asking more probing questions would have made a difference here. 
When considering whether Santander stopping and speaking to Mr R about the payments 
wouldve stopped the scam, I need to consider the evidence that wouldve been available to 
Santander about C and the receiving bank at the time the payments were made. And thats 
important because it isnt for Santander to decide if something is a scam or not. But where a 
payment is significantly unusual or presents additional risk, they should highlight that and 
warn Mr R of the possibility of a fraud or scam. It would then be for Mr R to decide to 
continue with the payment, or to go and do further research etc. Santander as a large 
international bank should have greater knowledge of common fraud and scams than the 
average consumer. And so they should give tailored warnings if the circumstances their 
customers describe match those of a common scam.  
 
Mr R told this service that he accepts he made the transfers and Santander went through the 
standard procedures when he sent the money. He says he was aware that C wasnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and that he had carried out checks on 
companies house and met the directors of C before agreeing to invest. But he says 
Santander shouldve been aware of the issues with Cs bank in Denmark at the time his 
money was sent due to investigations by the Danish Financial Services Authority (DFSA) 
into Cs bank at the time. And if it had warned him about those issues then he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the transfers.  
Santander has said the copies of the transactions show that checks were done, and that 
Mr R wouldve been given a fraud and scams warning at the time  which Mr R has 
collaborated. 
Im satisfied the transactions Mr R made were very large but even if I consider that 
Santander shouldve considered them unusual, I dont think it wouldve made a difference 
here. Santander said it provided a fraud and scams warning in its branch at the time of the 
payments. And Mr R has said he was satisfied with his own research into C. He had also 
met with the directors. So, Im satisfied that Santander wouldve been reassured that Mr R 
had completed his own due diligence into C and that he had already started to receive 
monthly payments from C by the time the second and third payments were made.
So, Ive gone on to consider carefully whether Santander shouldve done more here and 
whether it shouldve reasonably been aware of the issues with Cs bank. But I dont think I 
can reasonably say more shouldve been done by Santander. Thats because Ive not seen 
persuasive evidence that Santander shouldve been reasonably aware of the investigations 
by the DFSA at the time of the payments. Ive read the evidence provided by Mr R about the 
ongoing issues with Cs bank dating back to 2012. But the DFSA didnt shut down Cs bank 
until a year after the payments had been made. And there were no warnings available to 
Santander on the FCAs website  which is what Santander would be most persuaded by. Ive seen that Santander reasonably tried to recover Mr Rs money when the scam was 
raised but they were told there was no money to be sent back due to the DFSA taking over 
Cs bank and it no longer operating. 
Having carefully considered this complaint, Im acutely aware of the significant impact this 
whole situation has had on Mr R. And Im of course very sorry to hear that he has lost such a 
significant amount of money. Ive no reason to doubt his testimony that there were some 
sharp sales and trading practices involved. But Santander arent responsible for his loss 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman