DRN-3445379
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about a mortgage Mr G holds with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
(BoI). They are unhappy that they were unable to pay off a lump sum from the mortgage 
when they wanted to due to administrative errors on the part of BoI.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr G called BoI to ask for details of how to pay a lump sum off the 
mortgage. He was given account details, but the payment failed. Mr and Mrs G tried to make 
the payment, and were given the same account details, in February 2021. That payment left 
their account, but it went missing. The payment was eventually credited to the mortgage on 
9 March 2021.
Mr and Mrs G complained and BoI responded. However, it didnt initially uphold the 
complaint. It said that the account details that had been given in the initial call were correct. 
The details had again been checked before the second attempted payment and were again 
correct. It also said that it was unable to locate a record of the second payment having been 
received. BoI then went on to confirm two different options for Mr and Mrs G making the 
payment in the future. 
BoI issued another response to the complaint following Mr and Mrs G telling it that they 
remained unhappy. It said that in the telephone conversation before the second payment 
attempt, its member of staff had been specifically asked for BACS (Banker Automated 
Clearing System) details and those are the details that were given. However, in the ensuing 
conversation, Mrs G had said the payment would be made by CHAPS (Clearing House 
Automated Payments System), but the BoI member of staff didnt pick up on it. However, 
given Mr and Mrs Gs history of making lump sum payments, BoI thought that they were 
aware of the process and the problem was to do with the size of the lump sum. It explained 
that for large sums, different banks processed payments using different systems and, 
therefore, Mr and Mrs G should liaise with their bank about the interest they were unhappy 
they paid. BoI apologised for any confusion that had been caused and paid Mr and Mrs G 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered 
the complaint and she concluded that BoI hadnt done enough to put things right. She 
explained that BoI hadnt been unreasonable in initially providing BACS payment details as 
this was a method that could have been used and was the one that BoI would have used in 
such circumstances. However, when Mrs G had mentioned that the payment was to be 
made by CHAPS, BoI should reasonably have known that it had given her the wrong 
account details. The investigator considered that, reasonably, BoI should have picked up on 
this and given Mrs G the correct banking details. Had it done so, the payment made on 
26 February 2021 would have gone through and been credited to the mortgage account at 
that time. As such, the mortgage interest paid for the period 26 February 2021 to 9 March 
2021 should be refunded plus 8% interest. The investigator concluded that the £100 paid for 
the was enough to compensate them for the upset and inconvenience caused.
BoI didnt think it was fair for it to be asked to backdate the interest or pay statutory interest 
on that amount. It didnt explain why it had concluded that was the case. It asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
On 11 April 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out my conclusions about this 
complaint and my reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
BoI objected to the investigators findings as it thought that they were unfair, however, it 
didnt say why it thought that was the case. When approaching a complaint like this I must 
firstly consider whether a mistake was made, by whom and if there were any consequences 
to that. Unfortunately, in this case BoI has been unable to provide the first of the phone calls 
where the BACS details were given. This means that I cant determine exactly what was said 
about the account details given and whether it was highlighted that they were specifically for 
transfers using BACS. However, BACS is a very commonly used system and so it was not 
unreasonable for those account details to be provided. So I dont consider that I can hold BoI 
responsible for all the interest Mr and Mrs G would have saved if their payment had been 
applied to the mortgage in December 2020.
I have, however, listened to the later call where Mrs G wanted to check the payment details 
because the previous attempt had failed. BoIs member of staff was clearly trying to help, but 
she failed to pick up on Mrs G telling her that the previous attempt had been made by 
CHAPS. Had she done so, she could have provided Mrs G with the correct payment details 
or told her to ask the paying institution to make the payment by BACS, not CHAPS. 
BoI has acknowledged that this issue was missed by its member of staff and that it has 
arranged for staff training to ensure that nothing like this happens again. At this point I would 
highlight that I wouldnt expect a consumer to understand the difference between the 
different banking systems and Mrs G clearly didnt. However, I would have expected BoIs 
member of staff to have known that CHAPS and BACS were different systems and that this 
would necessitate different payment details. As such, I do think BoI made a mistake and that 
this meant the payment made wasnt credited to the account when it should have been; on 
26 February 2021. As such, BoI is responsible for any loss that this slight delay involved.
I have examined the account information Mr and Mrs G have provided and this shows that 
there was no change to the monthly instalment they made due to the lump sum payment that 
was made. As such, any interest saving wouldnt have been in Mr and Mrs Gs pocket, but 
rather it would have been taken account of within the mortgage balance. As such, the 
appropriate redress would be for BoI to alter the mortgage balance to what it would have 
been had the lump sum been credited to the mortgage on 26 February 2021. This 
calculation should be completed as at the date of settlement, should my conclusions remain 
the same and Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision.
BoI offered Mr and Mrs G £100 for the inconvenience this matter caused them. Given the 
redress I have detailed above will correct the financial loss they have suffered, I am satisfied 
that £100 is sufficient to compensate then for the inconvenience they suffered because of 
BoIs mistake.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept my provisional decision. They said they strongly disagreed with 
the complaint only being upheld in part and believed that the lump sum should be back 
dated to when they first tried to make the payment in December 2020. This was because BoI 
had provided them with the wrong payment details, which was evidenced by the two 
paying-in slips theyd provided. They highlighted that the wrong payment details were again 
provided in February 2021 as such, BoI was responsible for the money not having being 
credited to Mr Gs mortgage when they think it should have been. BoI confirmed that it was willing to accept my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully thought about what Mr and Mrs G have said, but it hasnt changed my 
conclusions. As I explained in my provisional decision, there are two banking systems that 
could have been used to make the payment they were intending to make. BoI gave details of 
its BACS account as that is the system that it uses for such transfers. It is clear from the call 
in February 2021 that Mr and Mrs G were aware that theyd been given account details for 
BACS, as Mrs G specifically asked to check the BACS account details. I cant hold BoI 
responsible for the fact that the first payment was attempted using a system other than 
BACS. BoI couldnt have known this would happen and it wasnt until toward the end of the 
conversation in February 2021 it was made aware that the previous attempt had been made 
using CHAPS and so it needed to give them different account details.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
to recalculate the mortgage balance based on the payment credited to the mortgage on 
9 March 2021 having been credited on 26 February 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman