DRN-3372028
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) has declined 
his claim under a deposit protection insurance. He would like the claim paid.
What happened
Mr M placed an order for windows and doors to be supplied and fitted by a business Ill call 
F. It said that a significant deposit would enable a faster turnaround time which was 
important to Mr M who was having a house built. F said that the deposit would be protected 
by an insurance policy with Independent Warranty (IWA), which was underwritten by Acasta. 
Mr M paid F a deposit of over £11,000, which was 65% of the total contract value in October 
2019.
Mr M says when the original delivery and installation dates were missed, he began 
pressing F for updates. F said everything was in hand and it was chasing the European 
based manufacturer. After further reassurances stretching into March 2020, Mr M learned 
that F had gone into administration and that his deposit hadnt been paid to the 
manufacturer.
Mr M made enquiries and contacted IWA. It said F had confirmed Mr Ms order when he paid 
the deposit. It said it had set up the cover and sent a policy certificate to him by email. Mr M 
said hed not received this. IWA reissued a numbered policy certificate. This resulted in Mr M 
making a complaint about IWA which was referred to our service in 2020. Mr M 
subsequently made a further complaint about his lost deposit.
Acasta said this was the same complaint as had already been made about IWA. Our 
investigator said it was a different complaint as it was about the claim not about the delay 
in issuing the policy certificate. Acasta agreed to consider the claim. Mr M was asked to 
provide proof that hed paid the deposit and did so.
After an overall delay of around four months Acasta rejected the claim and Mr Ms 
complaint in its final response of 16 July 2021. It said the policy was only valid for 60 days 
from the date of the payment of the deposit which meant the cover had expired in 
December 2019, meaning there was no cover in place when F went into administration in 
March 2020. Acasta apologised for the unusually long delays in processing the claim and 
dealing with the complaint and offered Mr M £100 in compensation for this.
Our investigator looked into the complaint about the claim, but she didnt uphold it.
She agreed something had gone wrong but said she couldnt hold Acasta responsible as it 
hadnt made an error and its actions hadnt led to the loss of the deposit. She said the 
policy wasnt appropriate for Mr M because F couldnt complete the work within the 60-day 
timeframe. She also said the policy only provided for a return of a maximum deposit of 
25% of the contract amount not the 65% Mr M had paid.
Mr M said the policy had been mis-sold as it was worthless. As he hadnt been provided 
with the certificate, he didnt know the policy was inappropriate and had been given false 
reassurance. He said Acasta should be responsible for the actions of F and IWA and 
should be at least responsible for paying 25% of the contract value. Our investigator said 
whilst F had arranged the policy for Mr M it wasnt acting for Acasta.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 7 February 2022, I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning to uphold the complaint in part. However, I am unable to 
tell Acasta to pay Mr Ms deposit. Ill explain why.
Acasta is responsible for the actions of its agents and whilst F might not have been its 
agent, IWA is and has arranged the policy and handled the claim. F offered the policy to 
provide its customers with comfort about paying deposits. The policy certificate refers to the 
customer as being the person named on the certificate, which is Mr M. It also gives him 
statutory rights to cancel the policy. Im satisfied the purpose of the policy was to protect 
him. Mr M says he didnt initially receive the certificate, and he made a separate complaint 
about that, which Im not considering here.
The claim
Acasta declined the claim saying the policy didnt cover what had happened, as F went into 
administration more than 60 days after the deposit was paid. I note the certificate does 
provide for the cover to be extended at the discretion of Acasta. This needs to be requested 
within the first 60 days, so Mr M would have needed the policy certificate to know this. But 
as any extension is discretionary it might not have been granted and it appears a further 
extension may have been needed. And, as F did fail more than 60 days after the deposit 
was paid, the policy doesnt cover what happened. So, I cant ask Acasta to pay this claim.
Acasta has only referenced the 60-day time limit as its reason for declining the claim but F 
had gone into administration in March 2020. The facts about this were well known to 
Acasta by April 2021, when it agreed it would consider Mr Ms claim. So, I think it should 
have been dealt with promptly. But I also think its relevant that the policy doesnt appear to 
have ever provided Mr M with any cover for his deposit. Ill explain why I think this below.
But I think Acasta would have been aware from its own records at outset that no claim 
would ever be paid. In these circumstances I think it took an unreasonably long time to 
decline the claim. This left Mr M hopeful that he might get his money back for another four 
months when there was no prospect of this at all. In the circumstances I think the 
compensation of £100 offered for this delay and the additional inconvenience of being 
asked to provide further evidence of his claim is too little and it should be increased by 
another £100 to £200.
Was Mr Ms deposit ever protected
As well as the 60-day limit, the policy also states that the maximum deposit that would be 
covered was 25% of the contract value. It continues that if the deposit was more than 25% of 
the contract value the policy would not cover the initial deposit and would render the actual 
deposit paid covered by this policy null and void. The policy certificate reissued by IWA records the monetary deposit paid as advised by F. This was considerably more than 25% of 
the contract value, and also nearly double the overall maximum cover limit of £6,250.
The certificate doesnt elaborate further but in contract law null and void means the 
contract was never valid and has no legal effect. As the deposit protection didnt offer any 
other benefit, I think its reasonable to say it offered no cover and there was never any 
prospect of it paying a claim. This leaves me with the impression that issuing the certificate 
is potentially worthless as no cover could apply. Acasta hasnt explained why the policy 
was still operative or what benefit Mr M would be able to derive from any cover left under 
the policy .
It isnt my role to tell Acasta how to run its business, but I can consider whether its 
procedures have resulted in a fair outcome for Mr M. I dont think they have. At best 
issuing certificates offering no cover is confusing. Its very likely to lead to 
misunderstandings and I can understand Mr Ms additional frustration over this.
Mr M didnt have any details of the policy when he paid his deposit and wouldnt have 
known the policy limits. If he had, I think hed have raised queries then. But Acasta was 
fully aware of the level of deposit having received the details from F. Which it entered into 
its records and on to the policy certificate despite it being significantly over the maximum.
Clearly F was also at fault here, but I dont think its reasonable that Acasta set up a policy 
when it knew it was actually providing no cover at all and then subsequently blame F for 
not following procedures. As I think the purpose of the policy was to benefit Mr M, I think in 
order to have treated him fairly Acasta should have explicitly clarified that the policy had 
failed at the earliest opportunity.
By failing to inform Mr M there was no cover it allowed him to think his deposit was insured 
when it wasnt. I think this exacerbated the distress caused by Fs failure. I think its fair that 
Acasta should pay Mr M compensation of £150 for the additional distress and inconvenience 
that this has caused him.
Taking everything into account at this stage I thought Acasta should pay Mr M a further £250 
in compensation for delays and the trouble and upset he has been caused.
I asked for any more comments or evidence be provided by the 7 March 2022.
Response to provisional decision
Mr M said he agreed with my decision. He said hed never expected to get his money back, 
but said it was reassuring to read that the certificate was not worth anything as I had 
suspected. He asked if Acasta and its agent IWA should apologise for what had happened 
and whether Acasta would have to declare the information about my decision.
Acasta said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
As explained in my provisional decision I think Mr M was treated unfairly by Acasta from 
outset and again when it said it would consider a claim. At outset it allowed Mr M to believe 
he had the benefit of insurance on his deposit when he did not. It then took an excessively 
long period to decline the claim which had no chance of success. I think Mr M is correct in saying that Acasta should offer an apology for what happened. 
Regardless of the actions of F, Acasta caused Mr M unnecessary trouble and upset and 
made a terrible situation worse rather than better.
Whilst Acasta doesnt need to disclose the outcome of this complaint to future customers, 
decisions made by our service can be viewed on our website. The financial services 
regulators (the FCA) fair treatment of customers principle says a business must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. This includes the provision of 
clear information, before, during and after the point of sale, which I dont think happened 
here. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Acasta has treated Mr M fairly it should offer him an apology and it should 
pay him a further £250 in compensation for his trouble and upset.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Acasta European Insurance Company Limited.
I direct Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M a further £250 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused. It should also apologise to Mr 
M for what has happened.
Acasta European Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Acasta European Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It 
should also give a certificate showing this if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman