DRN-1406887
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr H has exchanged 
the car but incurred costs in the process.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Mr H entered into a HPA with SMFL dated 9 April 2019 to acquire a used car. Under 
the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), SMFL can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car 
and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances. In this case the car was around seven years old and had been driven 
over 52,000 miles at the point of acquisition.
Given the age and mileage of the car it would be expected that it would have suffered 
some wear and tear. It is also possible that certain issues can arise shortly after 
acquisition which werent present at supply. However, in this case Mr H experienced 
issues within the first month. When a fault is identified within the first 30 days, the 
consumer could, under the regulations, have a short term right to reject the car. Mr H 
raised his concerns with the broker in the first 30 days. He raised his concerns with 
SMFL on 9 May, at which point he was continuing his discussions with the broker but 
then he raised his complaint later that month.
When Mr H contacted the broker in April, he reported an oil leak, heavy steering 
vibration, a knocking sound when turning at a slow speed and glass inside the door. 
He says he was told to get an independent inspection which he did on 27 April. The 
wheels were rebalanced to address the vibration. A leak at the sump plug was noted 
and an oil and filter change were recommended. 
The oil and filter change were a recommendation and given the age of the car I do 
not find it unreasonable that this would be needed at some time. The rebalancing 
again could be linked to wear and tear. However, it would not be expected that there 
would be an oil leak. This was confirmed in the inspection and given when this was 
reported, I find it more likely than not that this was present from the point of supply.
SMFL then arranged an independent inspection to take place. I do not find this 
unreasonable. The inspection took place on 10 June. I understand that the sump 
plug had been tightened which may have reduced the presence of any leak. The 
inspection report confirmed the issue with the glass in the door but said there was no 
evidence of an excessive oil leak and that the steering and wheel balancing was 
acceptable. The engineers opinion was that the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Mr H then took the car for further investigation. I note SMFLs comments about the 
cost of this inspection but given Mr Hs concerns and the results of the SMFL 
independent inspection, I find he acted reasonably by getting the inspection he did. 
The inspection took place on 8 August and this confirmed the oil leak stating the 
sump plug washer wasnt fitted correctly, it confirmed the knocking noise noting the 
top mount was worn and needed replacement, and it noted the air conditioning 
wasnt working. The inspection also recorded that no genuine exhaust was fitted, and 
the catalyst had been removed.
The August inspection was undertaken after Mr H had had the car for four months. I 
wouldnt have expected him to have experienced the number of issues he did in this 
time. This suggests the car wasnt sufficiently durable. An oil leak was identified in 
the April inspection and a leak from the same part was noted in the August 
inspection. I note that comments by SMFL that this could be due to a failed repair but 
based on the comments about the sump plug being tightened, I find the actions 
undertaken more likely than not slowed the oil leak but didnt address the underlying 
issue that was present at the point of supply. This was only identifiable when the 
undertray was removed and I havent evidence that this happened in the inspection 
carried out in June.
I also think the August inspection raises more fundamental issues regarding the 
exhaust. I have nothing to suggest that Mr H had had any alterations to the vehicle 
carried out and so the car was provided without a genuine exhaust and the catalyst 
missing. Given this, and the issue with the glass in the door being confirmed and the 
knocking noise Mr H initially raised being confirmed I find that the evidence suggests 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I note the comments made about the car being driven with known faults. However, I 
do not find that this changes my view in this case. I say this because the issues that 
were raised were more likely present at the point of supply rather than the result of 
any drive on damage. The issue with the knocking noise, door and oil leak were all 
reported a couple of weeks after acquisition and the issue with the exhaust would 
have been present from the outset. I also note that the June inspection report said 
that the car was of satisfactory quality and so there was no reason why Mr H wouldnt 
continue to drive it.  
As I find, on balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I 
have to consider the actions that should now be taken. In this case I think it would 
have been reasonable for Mr H to have been allowed to reject the car given the 
issues and when they arose and so I have considered the redress in this complaint on that basis.
Mr H part exchanged the car in September and the agreement was settled. However, 
there was a shortfall between the settlement amount he needed to pay, and the part 
exchange amount he received. Had SMFL accepted the rejection of the car Mr H 
would not have suffered this shortfall (£1,699.39) and so I find this should be 
refunded. 
Mr H paid a deposit towards the car. I note the comments made by SMFL that he 
used the car and then part exchanged but I find the deposit should be refunded. Had 
Mr H been allowed to reject the car, as I think would have been fair, the deposit 
would have been refunded. Mr H exchanged the car and so didnt have the use of the 
car over the term of the agreement as he would have expected when entering the 
agreement and paying the deposit and in this case I find it fair the deposit amount is 
refunded with interest. 
Mr H spent money on the August inspection report, and I find that this should also be 
refunded. He also paid for the wheels to be rebalanced in April, but I find that this 
wasnt unreasonable wear and tear given the age and mileage of the car at 
acquisition.
I do not find that the payments Mr H made while in possession of the car should be 
refunded. I appreciate he was driving a car that has been found to not have been of 
satisfactory quality, but he did still have reasonable use of the car. 
Mr H was however caused distress and inconvenience by the issues he experienced, 
and I find that he should be compensated for this. Our investigator recommended 
that he be paid £150 because of this and I find this reasonable.
Putting things right
To put things right, Specialist Motor Finance Limited should:
1. reimburse Mr H the shortfall amount of £1,669.39; 
2. refund Mr Hs deposit;
3. reimburse the cost of the inspection report; and 
4. pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Items 1, 2 and 3 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Specialist Motor Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited should 
carry out the actions set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman