DRN-3233676
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) applied a default to his credit file.
What happened
Mr G had a current account with BOS. In November 2015, he opted to switch accounts to
another bank. When the current account switch took place, Mr G left an outstanding balance
of approximately £800 with BOS.
BOS contacted Mr G in February 2016 and advised of the outstanding balance. Mr G offered
to repay the balance in two equal payments and made the first payment over the telephone
that day. Later that same month, Mr G called BOS and made the second required payment.
In April 2016, BOS contacted Mr G about the outstanding balance again. Mr G explained to
BOSs representative that hed already paid off the outstanding balance in full, and the BOS
representative advised Mr G that he would look into the matter.
In February 2021, Mr G raised a complaint with BOS on the basis that he was being chased
by a third-party debt purchasing company for a balance considered as being outstanding
pertaining to his old BOS current account. Mr G was also unhappy that BOS had placed a
default on his credit file because of this balance.
BOS looked at Mr Gs complaint. They noted that the first of the two payments that Mr G had
made to them had been forwarded by them to Mr Gs current account at the new bank that
hed switched to, and that as such this payment hadnt been applied to his BOS account and
had remained outstanding. BOS also noted that Mr G hadnt made a further payment
following the return of the first payment and that this had meant that his account had
continued to remain in arrears. Because of this, BOS didnt feel that theyd done anything
wrong by pursuing the balance or by recording a default on Mr Gs credit file and selling the
debt when Mr G ultimately didnt clear the arrears on his account.
However, BOS did acknowledge that they hadnt given Mr G clear information about what
had taken place when theyd contacted him about this, and so they apologised to Mr G for
this and made a payment of £75 to Mr G to compensate him for the upset and
inconvenience hed incurred.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this account. They felt that the error here had been BOSs, and
that Mr G had made the payment in question to BOS, but that BOS had then forwarded on
that payment, incorrectly, to Mr Gs new bank. Because of this, our investigator didnt feel
that it was fair that Mr G should have incur a default on his credit file, and so they
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Gs favour.
BOS didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, and so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 November 2021 as follows:
I can appreciate how Mr G might feel aggrieved to have discovered that BOS had 
recorded a default on his credit file in relation to this outstanding balance, given that 
hed made two payments to BOS to clear the outstanding balance in full.
However, its clear that the first of these payments was forward by BOS to Mr Gs 
new current account provider, meaning that the payment wasnt applied to Mr Gs old 
BOS current account and therefore didnt reduce the balance outstanding on that 
account. This meant that when Mr G made what he believed to be the final payment 
to clear the account, a further balance outstanding remained.
Mr G wasnt in any way at fault for BOS incorrectly forwarding his payment to his new
current account provider, and Im satisfied that the error in this regard can be solely
attributed to BOS.
But I dont consider that the fact that BOS made this error and incorrectly returned 
the payment in question to Mr Gs new current account absolves Mr G of his 
responsibility to make the further payment necessary to clear the account, especially 
given that Mr Gs bank statements from the new account appear to confirm the 
receipt back into the new account of the £400 payment that Mr G made to BOS 
shortly after he made it  which would have been visible to Mr G.
In these circumstances, what this service would expect here would be that BOS 
would have informed Mr G that the first payment hadnt been applied to his account 
and that he had a balance outstanding still to pay.
BOS appear to have done that here, and its notable from the contact notes supplied 
by BOS that Mr G was informed at the time that he made the second payment that 
the first payment hadnt been applied to his account and that this meant that a 
balance remained outstanding. Its also notable that Mr G was subsequently 
telephoned by BOS approximately a month later at which time he was also informed 
that the first payment hadnt been applied to his account, and that BOS sent Mr G 
two letters confirming that a balance remained outstanding on the account and 
requesting repayment before they began escalating this case within their
collections processes.
And it was only after these attempts to contact Mr G didnt result in the necessary 
payment being made to the account that BOS began the process of defaulting Mr Gs 
account, which included a formal demand letter being sent by BOS to Mr G which 
again confirmed that a balance remained outstanding on the account and needed to 
be paid.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that BOS have acted unfairly here 
by ultimately defaulting Mr Gs account in the manner that they did. And while I 
acknowledge that the initial error was made by BOS, the responsibility of Mr G to 
ensure the repayment of his account wasnt absolved by that error and Im satisfied 
that following the error, BOS followed a fair and reasonable process which did inform 
Mr G that the first payment hadnt been applied to his account and which gave Mr G 
ample opportunity to make that payment.But Mr G didnt make the further payment required to clear the balance outstanding 
on his account, and so it seems reasonable to me that BOS, having followed the 
process that they did, would ultimately record a default in relation to this account on 
Mr Gs credit file. And, on that basis, it follows that my provisional decision here will 
be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to take any action at 
this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr G and BOS the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. BOS didnt provide any further comments, whereas Mr G did express his 
disappointment at my provisional decision and outlined why he felt that my provisional 
decision was neither fair nor reasonable.
I note that Mr G, in his responses to my provisional decision, makes several references to 
the law. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court of law and doesnt operate 
as one. As a free and informal dispute resolution service, our mandate is to assess whether 
its felt that an unfair outcome has occurred, given all of the information and evidence 
presented to us by both the complainant and respondent parties. 
Mr G has stated that it cant be confirmed that the £400 he received into his new current 
account shortly after making the first £400 payment to BOS was the mistaken forwarding of 
that payment back to his new current account by BOS.
However, given the circumstances here  including the timing of the £400 payment into Mr 
Gs new current account, which corresponds with the mistaken sending of the £400 to Mr 
Gs new current account by BOS, as well as BOSs own internal investigation which 
confirmed that the £400 payment had been mistakenly forwarded to Mr Gs new current 
account  Im satisfied that the £400 that Mr G did receive into his new current account at 
that time was, in all probable and reasonable likelihood, the £400 that Mr G had paid to BOS 
but which had been mistakenly forwarded by them back to his new current account.
Mr G has also stated that he didnt receive any notification from BOS that they had sent the 
£400 to his new current account by mistake. However, as explained in my provisional 
decision letter, BOSs contact notes confirm that Mr G was made aware verbally that the 
initial payment of £400 wasnt showing as being applied to his BOS account when he spoke 
with BOS on at least two occasions, and its also evident that BOS sent several letters to Mr 
G subsequent to this advising him that a balance remained outstanding on the account. 
Furthermore, BOS have confirmed that the address that they hold for Mr G is the same as 
that provided to this service by Mr G, and so Im satisfied that these letters were sent to Mr 
Gs correct address. And, while this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr G didnt receive these 
letter, I feel that its more likely than not, on balance, that at least one or some of these 
letters would have been successfully delivered to Mr Gs address. 
And I also feel that the verbal explanation that Mr G received when he spoke with BOS on 
the telephone, referred to above, was sufficient in any of itself, and regardless of whether 
any subsequent letters were received by Mr G, for Mr G to have understood that a balance 
remained outstanding on this BOS account.
All of which means that it remains my position that, while BOS did make the initial error of 
forwarding the first £400 payment that Mr G made to them to Mr Gs new current account, 
BOSs making this error didnt absolve Mr G of the responsibility to re-make this payment. 
I also remain satisfied that BOS made reasonable, repeated, and successful efforts to inform 
Mr G that a balance remained outstanding on his account, and thus provided Mr G with a fair opportunity to make the necessary payment to his BOS account before any adverse 
reporting was incurred on his credit file as a result of the continuing outstanding balance.
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing BOS to take any further action at this time. I realise that Mr G will be 
disappointed by this outcome, but I hope that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman