DRN-2757101
The complaint
Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was taken out
at the same time as Mr W applied for a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and
unemployment protection. Barclays cant confirm if the sale took place in one of its branches 
or by post, Mr W thinks he may have got the application form from a magazine. The bank 
has agreed though that the sale can be reviewed as an advised sale. This is to Mr Ws 
advantage as it means the bank had more obligations to meet at the time of the sale.
I am aware Mr W is unhappy about other ancillary products linked to his credit card: this 
complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says he has no recollection that it was explained to him that PPI was optional. But 
Mr Ws credit card application form shows he ticked a box indicating that he wanted PPI. 
And the options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. So, I think 
Barclays made it clear to Mr W that PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. I can 
understand he might not remember this given how long ago the sale was. 
As Ive said I have reviewed this sale on the basis Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W. 
This means it had to check if it was suitable for him. Based on what I know of his 
circumstances at the time I think it was right for him. Mr W told us he was entitled to less 
than three months sick pay and a redundancy package, but the PPI would have paid
out in addition to his work benefits. And it offered up to 12 months protection under a
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. Mr W says he had life and critical 
illness cover and a death-in-service benefit. But these offer protection against different 
events and wouldnt help with monthly credit card repayments in the same way as PPI. Mr W 
told us he had savings of around £1000. But the PPI would have allowed him to use these 
for other living expenses whilst not working, or to save them for his future needs. He said 
family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed 
and peoples circumstances can change. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
Mr W if he was sick or lost his job.
Mr W had an operation in the 12-months before he took out PPI. He says this shows it was 
mis-sold as he wouldnt have been able to make a related claim. I accept its possible 
Barclays didnt give Mr W all the information that he needed on the relevant exclusion before 
he made his decision. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. Whilst he argues that the condition he had can recur, in the majority of 
cases it doesnt. And hes told us he had to have around three weeks off work after the first 
surgery, so in the unfortunate case he had to have a second surgery I dont think he would 
have expected to be off work long enough to be eligible to make a claim. He would have 
been covered for all other conditions. So I dont think more information or advice on the main 
exclusions or limitations would have changed his decision.
The policy was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and apparently affordable. On 
balance, I think its unlikely Mr W wouldve made a different decision if better cost 
information had been provided.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr W,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr W asked us to confirm Barclays has included all the premiums he paid between 1996 and 
2004 in this calculation. Weve looked at how Barclays has been working out these refunds 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right. And the screen shots Barclays provided 
confirm that Mr Ws PPI policy was live between 6 June 1996 and 5 May 2004.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman