DRN-3433860
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc closed his credit card accounts and didnt 
refund him the credit. He would like his credit refunded.
What happened
Mr H had two credit card accounts with Capital One.
On 1 November 2020 Capital one blocked access to one of Mr Hs accounts. A few days 
later on 5 November 2020 Capital One wrote to Mr H to tell him they had decided to close 
his accounts. They gave him two months notice of the closure, but they restricted access to 
the accounts from the 5 November 2020.
There was an outstanding balance on one of the accounts. The other account had a credit 
balance of £1,626.02.
Capital One discussed with Mr H the repayment of the outstanding balance and said he 
would have to recall any overpayments for the account that was in credit through his bank.
Mr H was unhappy with this, he wanted overpayments paid directly to him, so he complained 
to Capital One. Capital One said in response that any overpayment needed to be claimed 
through Mr Hs bank.
Mr H complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Capital 
One told us they had got things wrong and the balance on the account was chargeback 
claims that Capital One had raised because Mr H had made purchases he wasnt entitled to 
make. These purchases were over the agreed spending limit for the account. Capital One 
agreed they shouldnt have told Mr H that his account was in credit and they offered Mr H 
£50 compensation for the misinformation. Mr H was not happy with the offer and declined it 
 he said he thought he was entitled to the credit balance. The investigator looked into things 
 he said that Capital One were entitled to close Mr Hs account. He thought Mr H wasnt 
entitled to the credit balance as they were chargeback adjustments. Mr H wasnt able to 
provide evidence that the overpayments were made from his bank account. Our investigator 
also thought the offer of £50 was fair for the misinformation Mr H received.
Mr H was unhappy with the view. He said he was entitled to the credit on the account.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Hs accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Capital One were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Hs accounts. 
Ive considered whether Capital One acted fairly when it closed Mr Hs accounts. Its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Capital One acted fairly in closing Mr Hs accounts. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Capital One blocked the 
accounts during the notice period. For Capital One to act fairly here they needed to meet the 
criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all 
the evidence Im satisfied that they have applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Credit balance
Mr H was told by Capital One that the credit on his account was because of overpayments 
he had made. But Mr H has said he didnt think he had made overpayments. I am aware that 
Capital One have said they made a mistake when they described the credit in the account as 
being made up of overpayments and they have offered Mr H compensation for their mistake.
Capital One have since clarified that the £1,626.02 is made up of chargeback credits. They 
said Mr H made payments on his card that put him over his credit limit which they have 
claimed chargebacks for. Mr H says he should receive the credit back into his account. I 
have looked at Mr Hs bank statements and I can see that those payments making up the 
£1,626.02 have not come from Mr Hs bank account. As Ive said looking at Mr Hs 
statements, I cant see that the payments charged back to his credit card have come from 
him, so I dont think he is entitled to that money and I wont be asking Capital One to refund 
him.
Misinformation from Capital One 
Capital One have accepted they gave Mr H the wrong information when they said he had 
made overpayments. And they confirmed this to him a couple of times. I can see that this 
would have caused Mr H some confusion even though as he has said he didnt think he had 
made overpayments on the card account. 
Capital One have offered Mr H £50 in compensation because of this mistake. I have 
considered whether this amount is fair in the circumstances and I think it is. I say this 
because Mr H wasnt entitled to the credit and he was aware that he hadnt made any 
overpayments so the impact on him of Capital Ones mistake would have been minimal.
Putting things right
Capital One should pay Mr H £50 for the misinformation they provided to him.
My final decision
I direct Capital One (Europe) plc to pay Mr H £50 compensation for the error in the information they provided to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman