DRN-2093498
The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Oodle, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss T. The car 
here was around two years old and had completed about 44,000 miles. 
The relevant legislation gives the consumer a short term right to reject a car if theres 
something wrong with it and if the consumer requests to reject the vehicle within 30 days of 
taking receipt of it.
Here, I am persuaded there was something wrong with the car because Oodle and the 
dealership have said so. The headlights had water in them, and the USB socket wasnt 
working. An email from the dealership to Oodle explained:
I booked the car into our workshop for 04/02/2020 myself to look at: 1) headlight issue, 2)
usb port in the front of the car, 3) engine noise - engine mount and 4) alloy issue and 
Weve cleaned up the headlights, the usb port now works, there was nothing wrong with the
engine mount.
Im persuaded that Miss T asked to reject the car within 30 days as Oodles contact notes 
say she did so on 17 December 2019 and Oodle later confirmed that to the dealership.
Ive not seen evidence that Miss T asked for the car to be repaired. Her position, that she 
wanted to reject the vehicle, seemed unchanged throughout.
So Oodle should allow her to reject the car.
  
Putting things right
Oodle will need to collect the car and terminate the credit agreement. They should also 
return Miss Ts deposit as shes been deprived of that money.
It seems that Miss Ts has still been able to drive the car and have full use of it, so Im not 
asking Oodle to refund any of her finance instalments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Miss T;
refund Miss Ts deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ts credit agreement in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman