DRN-1414171
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC racially discriminated against him. Then it used 
his reaction to that to justify closing his account and asking him to repay his overdraft.
What happened
Mr M felt hed been discriminated against in a branch of Barclays. He said hed gone to a 
branch to get a new card printed and issued. He said that although at least one other 
customer had been issued with a card, he didnt get a card, and in fact the police were 
called. 
Mr M then spoke to our service again. He said there were lengthy waits on the day and he 
had to go through three sets of security checks. But he said what really upset him was that 
everyone else was being seen quickly. Those customers were all white. Then, when it was 
his turn, the advisor decided to go on a break. He felt that was discriminatory and racist. He 
said this caused him to raise his voice and behave in a way which ultimately led to the police 
being called. Mr M said he couldnt remember exactly how he was behaving. 
Mr M said Barclays had closed his account and was now trying to recover the money from 
his arranged overdraft. He thought that Barclays was doing this unfairly. He said he no 
longer had any interest in banking with Barclays but he wanted it to compensate him for how 
he had been treated. 
Mr M was also unhappy with Barclays complaints procedure, but our service has explained 
to Mr M that we cant look at that.
Barclays said Mr M had observed what he considered to be racial discrimination, where 
another customer was served before him, even though they were not next in line to be 
assisted. Barclays said that Mr M raised his concerns, and this ultimately led to the police 
being called. 
Barclays said there was a wait of an hour for a card to be printed on that day, and Mr M 
became upset and agitated after about 15 minutes. Barclays said he began behaving in a 
threatening manner, and branch furniture was moved. Barclays said it didnt have any 
evidence to support his allegation of racial discrimination, as all customers present were 
treated fairly and seen as quickly as possible. 
Barclays said it wouldnt reopen Mr Ms account now. It was sorry hed had difficulty 
registering his complaint and didnt get a call back within 48 hours. It said it had noted his 
comments about that, and would feed them back. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr M had 
explained both the reasons why he was particularly stressed at that time, and his perception 
of events. But there was no racist language used, and Mr Ms perception was ultimately subjective. It wasnt enough to persuade our investigator that Mr M was discriminated 
against.
In contrast, there was no dispute that Mr M had lost his temper in branch. Our investigator 
thought it was likely that Mr Ms behaviour was intimidating and threatening. So he thought 
Barclays had acted correctly in closing his account. He noted that the terms of Mr Ms 
account allow Barclays to do this. Our investigator wouldnt ask Barclays to do any more.
Mr M didnt think the bank was being held to the same standards as him, because we were 
accepting its witness testimony. So he thought we should ask Barclays for CCTV footage of 
the events. He said an event didnt have to include explicit racist language to be racist in 
nature. 
Our investigator said he hadnt seen the CCTV footage, but he didnt think it would help. 
Assuming it showed what Mr M said, an advisor leaving just before Mr M was about to be 
served, that doesnt mean this was racist. There could be other explanations. So he didnt 
think he could decide that Mr M was discriminated against. But Mr Ms behaviour was 
objectively inappropriate, so our investigator didnt think that Barclays did anything wrong by 
closing his account.
Mr M still didnt agree. He said he was the last person in the queue, and dealing with him 
would take only five minutes, so it wouldve been better to do that rather than make him wait. 
And he didnt think wed explored the possibility of implicit bias, which he said meant that the 
advisor might not even know that the motivation for his actions was racist. And Mr M said if 
the advisor didnt take a break before serving another customer, but did with him, that would 
be discrimination. He also said he thought someone else couldve fulfilled his request. 
Because Mr M and our investigator didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr M wants me to make a finding that he was discriminated against when he visited the 
branch that day, and it was the discrimination that led to him reacting as he did  meaning 
that ultimately Barclays or its staff was to blame and it shouldnt have closed his account.
Ive thought very carefully about what hes said. I understand his strength of feeling about 
what happened. Ill explain why I dont think I can find that he was discriminated against. But 
before I do that, Ill explain how Ive thought about that.
Discrimination can have a specific legal meaning  its the unlawful behaviour set out in the 
Equality Act. The Act applies to Barclays, and its something Ive taken into account in how 
Ive thought about this case. I note, however, that Mr M hasnt referred to the Equality Act or 
asked me to make a specific finding about it  and, while I take it into account, making 
findings on matters of law is something a court is better placed to do than I am.
However, I think theres a broader meaning of discrimination too beyond the technical legal 
definition  its that Mr M feels he was treated unfairly, and that unfair treatment was 
because of who he is rather than any more justifiable reason. Ive looked at this case with 
that broader meaning very much in mind to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Mr M wanted us to look at CCTV of the day in question. I asked Barclays if it still has that 
CCTV, and its told us it doesnt. I dont think that prevents me from reaching a decision in 
this case. Even if Id been able to watch the CCTV, and it showed exactly what Mr M said it 
would show, that still wouldnt tell me anything about a staff members motivation for taking a 
break just as Mr M was about to be served. 
I now have to decide on the balance of probabilities whats most likely to have happened in 
this case. And even if I accept entirely that events unfolded as Mr M described, and a staff 
member did walk away from his desk just before Mr Ms turn to be served, I still dont think 
that I could use that evidence to decide that its more likely than not that the staff members 
actions would be racist or the result of unconscious bias. I dont think I can decide, on the 
balance of probabilities, that this is the more likely explanation, without further evidence to 
explore that staff members motivation for taking a break. 
I can of course ask the staff member in question. But I note that the branch has already sent 
us its version of events, which is different in parts to that of Mr M. The branch staff said that 
everyone who was waiting for a new card to be issued on that day had to wait a long time. 
Mr M said this too. But the branch staff said this was what Mr M was upset and angry about. 
And those staff say they called the police when Mr M began behaving in a threatening 
fashion. 
Its almost always possible to dig deeper into the circumstances of a complaint. But our 
service has already conducted an investigation into this matter, and taken detailed evidence 
from both sides. And in this instance, it seems to me that any further and even more detailed 
investigation of this complaint is extremely unlikely to produce the result that Mr M wants. In 
any event, I have enough information and evidence to reach a decision here and I think its 
fair to both sides to bring this issue to a close now in terms of this services involvement.
Im sorry to have to tell Mr M that I cant uphold his complaint on this point. 
Our investigator said that it wasnt in dispute that Mr M had lost his temper. I think thats 
right. Mr M himself described his behaviour to us as admittedly apoplectic. Mr M has 
explained the additional stress that he was under at the time, which contributed to this. But 
Barclays has set out, in the terms and conditions of his account, that it can close Mr Ms 
account immediately, if he behaves in a threatening or abusive manner to staff. 
And it seems to me most likely, considering everything here, including what Mr M himself 
has said, that he did behave in a manner which Barclays staff found threatening or abusive. 
While Mr M may have behaved in that way because of his perception that he had been 
discriminated against, I dont think theres any evidence that Barclays staff actually did 
discriminate against him, consciously or unconsciously. So I dont think that Barclays did 
anything wrong when it closed Mr Ms account. 
Mr M also complained about being asked to pay back all the money that he had borrowed 
from Barclays through an overdraft. But similarly, the terms of his account say that if the 
account is closed immediately, then any linked borrowing will also end immediately. So I 
think that Mr M does have to pay this money back. Now this complaint is resolved, Barclays 
and Mr M will need to discuss how this is to be done  and will need to work together to 
agree an affordable repayment plan if possible.
I know that Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman