DRN-1557599
 
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Sabre Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Sabre includes their agents.
In bringing her complaint Mrs C has been represented by her husband. But, for ease, Ive 
referred to her husbands comments as being those of Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs Cs son, a named driver on her policy, was driving when he was involved in an accident 
with another car on 17 August 2018. The car was a total loss. Mrs C claimed on her policy 
with Sabre and said the other driver was at fault because he was speeding and he was 
under the influence of alcohol.
Sabre felt that Mrs Cs son was at fault for the accident because he drove into the path of the 
other car that was correctly proceeding and had the right of way. Sabre settled the other 
drivers claim. Mrs C didnt think that was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
She said Sabre hadnt properly investigated the accident. She also said Sabre didnt make a 
premium refund after she cancelled the policy following the accident. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She felt that Sabre had dealt with Mrs C fairly. As Mrs C didnt 
think that was fair, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mrs C, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mrs Cs points carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident, its to 
decide if Sabre have dealt with Mrs C in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the policy, Sabre have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate without 
the need to get Mrs Cs agreement. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way. I think Sabres decision to pay the other drivers claim was reasonable.
Mrs Cs son was on a main road waiting to turn right. To do so he had to drive across the 
opposite lane that had traffic coming towards him. He waited at a ghost island until he felt it 
was safe to complete the turn. Mrs Cs son said he noticed the other driver coming towards 
him from a distance of around 150 metres. As Mrs Cs son started his turn he said he heard 
another car sound its horn. So, he stopped mid-turn and look over his shoulder to make sure 
it was safe before continuing his turn. He was at that point almost a metre into the other lane 
the other car was travelling in. When he looked back up to complete his turn he said the 
other car crashed into his stationary car. Mrs Cs son said his car was thrown back and hit another car. He said the other car was speeding and the driver of that car was at least partly 
to blame for the accident as he had enough time to avoid the accident.
When the police attended the scene they gave the other driver a breath test which was 
positive, so they arrested him. But as the other driver had broken his arm he was taken to a 
hospital for treatment. That delayed the police taking him to a police station by around four 
hours. And when at the police station the police did an evidential breath test the other driver 
was well under the legal limit. But Mrs C is convinced that the other driver was at the time of 
the accident impaired through alcohol which played a significant role in the accident. Mrs C 
and her husband said they are both from professions where they have had extensive 
experience of dealing with people who are impaired through alcohol. And they both attended 
the scene shortly after the accident and said they believed the other driver was impaired.
But I note that the police officer who attended the scene reported that the other driver smelt 
of alcohol but did not appear intoxicated. Alcohol consumption may also be a factor in the 
collision. I think the officers comment is somewhat contradictory. But the officer did spend 
some hours with the other driver and his initial view was that he didnt appear intoxicated. Im 
aware that the roadside breath test only gives an indication whether or not someone has 
alcohol in their system. And the other driver did admit to consuming alcohol. But that doesnt 
mean he was impaired. And the subsequent test at the police station was the evidential test 
that conclusively confirmed the other driver was well below the legal limit. I note Mrs Cs 
argument that the police station test was done hours later by which time the affects of the 
alcohol would have progressively reduced. According to the police evidence the police 
station test was done around four hours after the roadside test. But the police chose not to 
do a back calculation to establish what the alcohol reading might have been at the time of 
the accident nor did they prosecute the other driver. Sabre werent responsible for the 
polices actions.
Sabre also appointed an independent investigator who interviewed the police officer 
involved. The investigator said there was the potential of arguing that the other driver was 
under the influence of alcohol at the time. But he also said our concern remains that the 
insured vehicle has turned across [the other drivers] path at the time of the collision. While I 
note Mrs Cs sons estimation was that the other driver was 150 metres away when he first 
saw him and that he must have been speeding to make up so much ground in such little time 
to crash into him, Ive not seen any independent or expert evidence to confirm that was the 
case. Assessing a cars speed for a lay person is extremely difficult and I think that is 
something that the courts have also acknowledged. And Sabre, who are experienced in 
dealing with accidents such as this, concluded that if the matter went to court it was almost 
certain that the judge would find that Mrs Cs son simply misjudged the turn causing the 
accident.
I feel that Sabre have investigated the incident reasonably. I also think their decision to settle 
the claim was reasonable on the available evidence. I note that they gave Mrs C the option 
to defend the other drivers claim herself at her own expense, which I think was reasonable. 
Where a policyholder doesnt agree with an insurers decision to settle a claim the 
policyholder can take action themselves against the other driver to prove they were 
negligent. And I understand that Sabre settled the other drivers claim on what is known as a 
without prejudice basis (WOP). That means while Sabre paid the other drivers claim they 
didnt admit liability on Mrs Cs sons behalf. 
Finally, Mrs C wasnt happy that she didnt get a premium refund when she cancelled the 
policy. The accident happened some five months into her 12 month policy. Mrs Cs car was 
a total loss and she didnt replace the car with another one on her policy. So, although she 
paid for a 12 month policy she only had use of it for around half that time. But I should 
explain that Mrs Cs insurance contract was for 12 months. And like most policies her policy said that in the event a claim was made on her policy Sabre were entitled to keep the 
premium for the whole year. I think thats reasonable given Sabre have paid out for both the 
total loss of Mrs Cs car and for the damage to the other car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman