DRN-2794512
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a finance agreement she has with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS) was misrepresented to her.
Mrs B has been represented at times during this complaint but, for ease, and because the 
finance agreement is in Mrs Bs name, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation explains that the finance provider (BMWFS) are responsible for what 
they say and do and what the brokers (the dealership here) say and do when negotiating the 
credit agreement.
If Mrs B was told something that was false and if that false statement led her to enter into an 
agreement with BMWFS when she would not have done so had it not been for that false 
statement, I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to her.
the mileage discrepancy
All parties now agree that the finance agreement had the wrong mileage on it. The mileage 
should have been 30,000 miles more than was recorded.
Had this not have been noticed Mrs B would have been responsible for paying 4.66p for 
those miles under the excess mileage clause, even though she hadnt completed those 
miles.
But Ive seen that the dealership have offered to refund the charge that would be made for 
those extra miles (4.66p x 30,000 miles = £1,398) and that puts Mrs B back in the position 
she would have been in had the mistake not been made. 
the mileage limit
Mrs B thinks the mileage limit she agreed to was 12,000 per year but the business dont 
agree. In the absence of any further evidence I think the details in the contract are 
persuasive. The contract that Mrs B signed explained that the mileage limit was 10,000 per 
year. This information wasnt hidden in the small print; it was clearly set out on the first page. 
I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to have read and understood the details 
contained in the contract before signing, and I dont think I have sufficient information to 
suggest the mileage limit was not what was agreed.
service plan charge, MOT and GAP insurance
The dealership have confirmed that the service plan was financed under the agreement.  
Mrs B says she was overcharged for the plan and I can see that the dealership promised to 
refund some of the money they charged but to retain a portion for the work done to date. 
BMWFSs responsibility was only to finance the sum that was advised to them by the 
dealership. And, regardless, I can see that the dealership have offered to refund part of the 
service plan and to cancel the remainder. I think that puts Mrs B back in the position she 
would have been in and Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask BMWFS to take any further 
action. Mrs B has explained that the dealership havent provided the refund yet but as they 
have offered that I think it would be unfair to hold BMWFS responsible. Thats an issue that 
should be taken up with the dealership.
I understand Mrs B thinks the car should have been MOTd when it was serviced but I 
havent seen enough information to suggest this should have been included in the service 
plan and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask BMWFS to take any action in relation to 
those concerns. In the absence of information to suggest the MOT was within the service 
plan and was financed by BMWFS it may be more advantageous to make a further 
complaint to the dealership and potentially escalate the issue to the Motor Ombudsman. 
I cant see that the GAP insurance was financed under the agreement but, even if Im wrong 
about that, it seems Mrs Bs concerns are that the price of her GAP insurance was 
significantly different than the GAP insurance on another car they were financing. BMWFSs 
responsibility is to provide the finance and I dont think it would be fair to suggest they should 
have any accountability for the amount that is to be financed. Thats a dispute Mrs B could 
only fairly resolve with the dealership.
suitability of the agreement
When Mrs B entered into the agreement she was provided with an explanation document 
that set out its key features and she was also provided with pre-contract credit information 
that also explained those key features. I can see that the dealership has subsequently 
suggested that a hire purchase agreement may have been more suitable but that appears to 
be based on information Mrs B has provided about a year later and I dont think Ive been 
provided with sufficient information to explain why the finance product may have been wrong 
for Mrs B. What is clear is that an explanation of the key features of this agreement was 
provided. So, Im not asking BMWFS to take any action about this issue.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman