DRN-2472518
The complaint
Ms W complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called Provident 
Personal Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma. 
She says Satsuma lent to her irresponsibly because the loans she was provided with caused 
her financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Ms W took 2 loans from Satsuma; in February and August 2019. Ive 
enclosed a summary of Ms Ws borrowing with Satsuma, based on the information provided 
to us:
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest Repayment
1 10/02/2019 02/09/2019 Instalment £200 £63
2 23/08/2019 Outstanding Instalment £300 £184
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Ms W that they didnt 
think it should be upheld. Ms W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Ms Ws complaint.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms W could repay both the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks 
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being 
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Satsuma told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Ms W, including 
assessing her income and expenditure. It says that based on what was said, this information 
showed that Ms W would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to on 
both occasions. 
Ms W declared her net income (after tax) as £3,200 per month and she also provided details 
about her expenditure. I think its fair to say that from a starting point, this income level would 
appear to be supportive of the relative moderate borrowing Ms W was seeking. And so, I 
think the first loan, considering what shed also said about her outgoings, Satsuma would 
have concluded the lending was sustainable.
Given what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I also think it was 
reasonable in this case for Satsuma to have relied on what it had been told by Ms W herself 
together with searching through some of Ms Ws financial profile, but necessarily not all of it 
during the early stages. 
I think that what was revealed by relying on these methods supported the view that the 
lending was sustainable for loan 1. So, whilst I accept what Ms W says about her wider 
financial situation of that time being challenging, I dont think Satsuma would have exposed 
this fully in the financial checks it carried out or in the information Ms W herself disclosed. I 
therefore dont uphold the complaint about loan number 1.
For the second loan, I note that this was advanced just before the first one was ending. But I 
go back to the level of income Ms W said she had and her disclosures about her outgoings. 
As would be expected, this further loan might initially have caused further demands on her 
finances, but only for a short time. Like loan 1, it was for a moderate amount and still only 
the second loan.
I do accept that its possible that a deeper examination of Ms Ws financial profile could have 
revealed a reason not to lend. But I dont think that by loan 2 the situation had reached that 
stage. Satsuma was justified, in my view, on relying on Ms Ws disclosures and financial 
checks at the more basic end of the spectrum. None of the bullet points Ive set out above 
therefore apply to her situation and so I dont uphold this part of the complaint either.
Im very sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
I do not direct Provident Personal Credit Limited to pay Ms W any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman