DRN-4269405
The complaint
Mr E complained because American Express Services Europe Ltd (AmEx) re-debited a 
temporary £200 credit in relation to a dispute about his purchase of jewellery. 
What happened
On 20 August 2022, Mr E bought a ring online from a merchant abroad, using his AmEx 
card. He paid the equivalent of £4,840. On 14 October, Mr E asked the merchant to re-size 
the ring, which it agreed to do without charge.
On 20 October, Mr E contacted the merchant and said hed had problems sending the ring 
back via the merchants courier. The merchant offered Mr E a free bracelet, and a discount 
on a future order. 
Mr Es re-sized ring was shipped back to him on 1 November, and he signed for it on 3 
November. The merchant sent Mr E the free gift bracelet which was delivered to him on 21 
November.
On 21 December, Mr E emailed the merchant and said hed had the bracelet valued, and 
had been told it was only worth around $10 USD. He told the merchant he would document 
his experience on review websites, and would claim via AmEx for the value of the bracelet 
on the merchants website, less $10 USD.
The merchant replied saying it didnt know why anyone would have told Mr E the bracelet 
was worth $10 USD. It pointed out that Mr E hadnt been charged for the bracelet. The 
merchant said it couldnt provide compensation but asked if Mr E would prefer a different gift, 
offering some earrings.
Mr E contacted AmEx on 26 December, raising a dispute for £200 under the heading The 
goods or services I received are different from the description provided by the merchant. 
AmEx raised a chargeback for Mr E and acknowledged his claim on 4 January 2023. This 
said We have now forwarded the documents to the merchant for more details and as we 
have previously ensured you were not liable to pay this amount while we investigated, we 
will now credit the amount and you will see this on your upcoming statement. If the merchant 
provides information supporting the transaction we may rebill your account. If this happens 
we will update you. 
Mr Es AmEx statement dated 10 January recorded Items in suspense.  These items are 
currently under review and excluded from the minimum repayment requested.  Suspension 
of disputed charge £200.00.
The merchant disagreed with the chargeback and sent AmEx evidence that the ring had 
been shipped, the cardholder was in possession of the order and the free gift, and he wasnt 
owed a refund. The merchant said it was unclear why Mr E was disputing the equivalent of 
£200 as the claim appeared to be about the bracelet which had been sent to him at no cost 
to him.
AmEx wrote to Mr E on 30 January.  It sent him the documentation and said that as this 
appeared to support the transaction, it had reapplied the £200 previously credited. It asked 
Mr E to review the merchants documentation and if he thought it had been incorrectly 
represented, he should contact AmEx again.
Mr E complained. 
In AmExs final response to Mr Es complaint, it said that it provided the chargeback dispute 
process to help both cardholders and merchants in reaching a reasonable agreement. It said 
it had also reviewed Mr Es complaint that the case had been marked as closed and then 
rebilled. It explained that its process was to close a dispute after the chargeback was raised 
and if a merchant provided supporting documents, the charge would be reapplied and the 
case would be closed again. And it pointed out that it had told Mr E on 4 January that if the 
merchant provides information supporting the transaction, we may rebill your account. If that 
happens we will update you. 
Mr E wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said AmEx had marked his case as 
closed on its website, so hed thought the merchant hadnt provided sufficient information or 
hadnt replied in time. Mr E said hed raised a different dispute the previous year, and when 
hed sent a chat message to AmEx it had said that case had been closed in his favour. So 
he thought this case too had been closed in his favour as he hadnt received any 
communication from AmEx. Mr E said he was £200 worse off and was left feeling stressed. 
He wanted AmEx to credit him with £200.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. She explained that a chargeback can only 
be raised in certain circumstances where there had been a problem with an item purchased 
by a customer. The item Mr E had paid for was the ring. His complaint was about the free 
gift, which he hadnt paid for, so it wouldnt fall under the rules of the chargeback scheme. 
This means that Mr Es complaint about the value of the bracelet was a retail dispute which 
hed need to take up direct with the merchant. So AmEx wasnt liable for this.
Mr E had also complained about the way in which AmEx handled his chargeback, saying it 
shouldnt have been marked as closed when it was pending. But AmEx had provided us with 
its correspondence, showing that when it had told Mr E about the initial refund, it had warned 
him that if the merchant provided information supporting the transaction, it might rebill his 
account. It had also informed Mr E when it took the decision to reverse the credit. So the 
investigator was satisfied that AmEx had handled the matter correctly.
Mr E wasnt satisfied. He said he wasnt happy with the outcome. He also said that AmExs 
letter had been sent on the same day as the reversal, and he was unhappy that the reversal 
happened before hed have received the letter. Mr E said hed only been informed after the 
fact which was the heart of the issue. Mr E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargebacks only apply to items purchased. Here, the item Mr E paid for was the ring. But 
hes not complaining about the ring, which he sent back for re-sizing, which was done free, 
and he hasnt complained about that. He didnt pay for the bracelet which is the subject of 
his complaint. That was a free gift, offered and sent by the merchant as compensation for 
courier problems.Card issuers (here, AmEx) dont have to raise a chargeback. For example they might not do 
so if they think theres little reasonable chance of success. But AmEx did raise a chargeback 
for Mr E, even though he hadnt paid for the bracelet about which he was complaining. I 
consider AmExs decision not to refund Mr E was fair and reasonable in the light of the 
information it received from the merchant.
Mr E also complained about AmExs processes in relation to the chargeback. He said that 
only being informed after the chargeback refund was re-debited was the heart of the matter. 
So Ive looked closely at the timescales and AmExs handling of this issue.
On 4 January, AmEx informed Mr E that it had raised a chargeback, and it notified him that it 
had credited the disputed amount, but If the merchant provides information supporting the 
transaction we may rebill your account. If this happens we will update you. This was 
reflected on Mr Es 10 January statement which recorded £200 as currently under review. 
So I find that Mr E was sufficiently notified that the credit could be withdrawn.
After the merchant provided evidence that Mr E hadnt paid for the bracelet, the value of 
which he was disputing, AmEx wrote to Mr E again on 30 January. I find that was a 
reasonable timescale. As Ive set out above, AmEx said that it had reapplied the £200 
previously credited, asked Mr E to review the merchants documentation and said that if he 
thought it had been incorrectly represented, he should contact AmEx again. 
Mr E is unhappy because AmEx debited his account on the same day as it sent him the 
letter. But he had already been warned that the credit could be re-debited. And Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Mr E did contact AmEx again to dispute the merchants evidence, as 
it offered. I consider that if Mr E had gone back to AmEx with evidence which proved the 
merchants evidence to be false in some way, AmEx would have investigated further.
Mr E sent us an undated screenshot of a chat, without account number, about £200 of a 
£2400 transaction. This showed that the chat adviser said £200 had been applied to the 
account on 22 August and the dispute had been closed in the customers favour. Mr E told 
us this related to a separate dispute hed previously raised with AmEx, and that this led him 
to expect that if this case was also marked as closed, it was also in his favour.
Im not persuaded by this argument. First, the screenshot of a different dispute doesnt 
determine the outcome of this dispute. I appreciate that Mr E would have preferred AmExs 
procedures to mark a chargeback as pending when an initial temporary credit has been 
made, rather than closed. But AmEx is entitled to set its own procedures, and this service 
doesnt tell banks to change their procedures, as thats the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. In practical terms, I find that AmEx had sent Mr E sufficient information, in 
its 4 January email, echoed in the 10 January statement, to indicate that the credit could be 
reversed.
So I find that AmEx didnt do anything wrong, and I do not uphold Mr Es complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman