DRN-1497164
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wrote to her in May 2019 offering to 
refund some charges and interest which had been applied to her account, but then later 
advised her that had been an error.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs H and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mrs H held a card account with Barclays which was defaulted in August 2015 when she had 
an outstanding balance of £9,595.02. Barclays agreed to accept £2,879 from Mrs H in 
settlement of the amount due on her account, and which she paid. 
In May 2019 Barclays wrote to Mrs H as she was one of a number of identified customers to 
whom Barclays had decided to offer a blanket refund of charges and also a goodwill 
payment. The total amount offered to Mrs H was £586.24. Barclays wrote again to Mrs H 
some 3 weeks later advising that the letter sent had been an error because she had earlier 
agreed to a full and final settlement of her account.
Mrs H believed that was unfair and complained to Barclays who maintained their stance. Mrs 
H was unhappy with Barclays final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs H didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into 
account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have to make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. And in this case, I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Mrs H was in financial difficulty in 2014 and obtained help from a debt management 
company who wrote to Barclays at that time. Barclays subsequently agreed to help Mrs H by 
writing off £6,716.02 of her debt.Barclays then reviewed how they had dealt with their customers between October 2013 and 
December 2017 and as a result of that review concluded they hadnt always met the 
expected standards for engaging and assisting those customers who had been in financial 
difficulty. Barclays took the decision to write to each potentially affected customer and offer a 
blanket refund of charges and goodwill payment. I suspect they took that decision because it 
was an expedient and economic way to approach the matter.
Barclays had of course already engaged positively and sympathetically with Mrs H because 
they had earlier agreed to waive a large proportion of her debt. It appears to me therefore 
that any refund of charges Barclays offered was already refunded because it is contained 
within the sum actually written off. And it also appears to me that any goodwill payment is 
not appropriate in Mrs Hs case because Barclays did in fact deal with her positively and 
sympathetically, which is what they are required to do when they know a customer is in 
financial difficulty. 
I know Mrs H feels that the two issues are separate, but I dont agree. If I were to direct 
Barclays to make the refund payment to Mrs H she would in effect be getting a windfall 
payment since that payment is already within the written off balance. And that wouldn't be 
fair. Barclays and Mrs H agreed that her payment to them of £2,879, and Barclays writing off 
the balance, was in full and final settlement. In my view that is evidence that effectively they 
both agreed that any issues surrounding what was owed on the card by either, ended there.
So, although Mrs H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman