DRN-3759366
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint concerns the CFD trading account he holds with IG Markets Limited. He 
initially questioned the validity of a margin call made on his account in April 2017 but 
subsequently raised more general concerns about the operation of the account and the 
amount of commission paid to IG. 
What happened
Mr C has been trading with IG through the account since 2013. On 20 April 2017 he 
contacted it during the morning to query what time that day, and by how much, margin rates 
would be increased for some of his open CAC 40 positions. It was confirmed to him that they 
would increase fourfold at 4pm. 
He called again shortly after midday to request the positions be rolled over from the April 
contract to the May contract, which was done for him. He asked what effect this would have 
on the margin situation and he was called back shortly after and it was confirmed to him that 
as things stood his account would be short €200 at 4pm. 
The following day insufficient balance on Mr Cs account led to a margin call, the closure of 
the positions and him incurring a loss.
Mr C initially complained to IG about this margin call sometime after, in 2018, with 
subsequent correspondence culminating in a final response from IG being issued in April 
2019. IG didnt uphold the complaint as it was satisfied it had made the margin call correctly, 
in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
The complaint was eventually referred to this service in 2021. Our investigator explained our 
process to Mr C and highlighted that the more general issues hed raised by this point 
regarding the operation of the account and the commission paid  hadnt been considered 
by IG. And, as such, he could only consider the matter of the April 2020 margin call. 
In respect of this specific issue, the investigator explained that hed read the transcripts of 
the relevant telephone conversations and noted that Mr C had been informed of the margin 
requirements on his account and how they would be impacted by the particular 
circumstances of that day. The investigator stressed that IG provided an execution-only 
service and the information provided to Mr C about the margin position was not advice. In 
short, he was satisfied that IG had acted as he wouldve expected it to.  
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He noted that only the calls relating to the 20 April 
2020 matter had been transcribed and he felt that all calls from when the account was 
opened in 2013 should be listened to as this would show the extent to which hed been 
unfairly advised to deposit funds and invest by IG, despite it being an execution-only service. 
And he said there were also other issues in respect of margin increases that should be 
looked into. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view and although Mr Cs additional 
comments were shared with IG it declined to provide any further response. 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been referred to me to review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C is facing difficult circumstances and feels that IG bears responsibility for 
this as a result of the way its interacted with him and operated his trading account over the 
years. But, as the investigator noted, the more general concerns that Mr C has raised 
recently havent been considered by IG. And that would have to happen before we could 
look to resolve any dispute about them. 
The more general concerns should be directed to IG who will consider them and provide a 
response. Although, that said, I should highlight that, given the amount of time thats passed 
since the account was opened and Mr C began trading, our rules and the time limits we have 
to apply may become relevant and restrict how much were able to get involved. To be clear, 
Im making no findings in respect of these other matters, or whether we would be able to 
consider them. I just want to clearly set Mr Cs expectations about what he may now be able 
to do. 
Turning to the specific issue that Mr C originally complained to IG about  the margin call of 
April 2017  Ive not seen that it acted incorrectly in this respect. The information provided to 
Mr C in the calls of 20 April 2017 was correct and properly answered his queries. And I note 
that it was the IG staff member who, having arranged for Mr C to roll over his positions to the 
new contract, offered to call him back having completed the relevant calculations to 
determine what his margin would be. So, as far as I can see, he was fully informed about the 
situation. As such, the margin call the following day appears to have been correct. 
In summary, while I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, Im 
unable to make a finding that IG acted incorrectly.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman