DRN-4235883
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) failed to carry out effective repairs 
following a claim for damage to her garage, under her home buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs Ss garage roof was damaged. She made a claim to Zurich, but it declined to cover her 
loss by relying on a gradual cause exclusion. Mrs S complained to Zurich, and this was 
eventually referred to our service. We issued a decision in January 2021 upholding the 
complaint. The decision required Zurich to settle the claim for damage to Mrs Ss garage in 
line with the remaining policy terms. 
Mrs S says shes had to deal with a number of different parties in order to have the damage 
repaired. Repairs have now been carried out. But she says water hasnt stopped entering 
her garage. Mrs S says Zurich didnt tackle the main reason for the roof collapse and has 
since told her she cant claim again for her garage. 
In its final complaint response, in February 2023, Zurich says repairs to the neighbouring 
garage needed completing before work commenced on Mrs Ss property. It says there were 
complications, and this took some time. In April 2022 it was informed the repairs were 
completed. It instructed a surveyor who then confirmed the repair work required to Mrs Ss 
garage. This work was completed in late October.
Zurich says Mrs S reported continued problems with water ingress into her garage after the 
repairs were completed. It responded to say its policy doesnt cover the neighbouring 
garage. It told Mrs S she should contact the property manager responsible for this.
Zurich says the surrounding garage roofs, to which Mrs Ss garage is connected, are in a 
poor condition. It says the problem now relates to the neighbouring garage. 
In its response Zurich says the roof over the insured garage has been replaced. This means 
the defect has been remedied. It acknowledged it had caused delays in the claim being 
progressed. This delayed matters for around nine months. Zurich offered Mrs S £500 
compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Mrs S didnt think Zurich had treated her fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says Zurich did as much as it could to repair 
the damaged garage. She didnt think it couldve carried out the repairs more effectively in 
these circumstances.    
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I understand this has been a frustrating 
and complicated issue for her to try and resolve. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but Ill explain 
why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that Zurich contacted Mrs S in February 2021 after our ombudsman had provided 
a final decision to her initial complaint. It asked her to confirm if her neighbours repairs were 
completed. Zurich said to mitigate future losses it needs confirmation these repairs are 
complete, prior to it authorising the repair work to Mrs Ss garage.
The records show Mrs S was in contact with her neighbour (a tenant at the property), as well 
as her own landlord and the owner of the neighbouring garage. In her correspondence she 
emphasised the need for the repairs and the impact this was having on her property. I can 
see that responses took a long time. And it required a significant effort on Mrs Ss part to 
progress matters. I can understand that this mustve been very frustrating for her. But I also 
acknowledge Zurichs point, that its policy only covers Mrs Ss property not her neighbours. 
Correspondence from April 2021 shows the owner of the neighbouring garage had arranged 
for the damage to be inspected by a builder. Repairs were also carried out at this time. I can 
see an email from Zurichs agent to Mrs S (also around this time). It asked her to confirm if 
the neighbouring garage repairs were sufficient to allow repairs to her garage. She 
responded to say she isnt qualified to confirm this information. Zurich responded to say a 
builder will be able to advise if works are sufficient to continue with the repairs. It offered to 
appoint a builder on Mrs Ss behalf if this was needed.  
A surveyor was appointed by Zurich in September 2021 given concerns about whether 
repairs to the neighbouring garage were sufficient. The surveyors report says:
The adjacent property has undertaken some re roofing works and the standard of 
workmanship is very poor. The covering has not been bonded to one another and therefore 
likely to have caused water ingressHaving consideration to the complexity and nature of 
the repairs required, and taking into account the needs of the customer, we consider that the 
following Repair Delivery route is most appropriate should the repairs progress to fulfilment: 
Surveyor to manage the contractor directly and report back to the Adjuster. Surveyor to 
conduct weekly or bi weekly site visits and to provide a brief report. Initially several visits will 
be required as the strip out work is undertaken to ascertain the extent of the damage. 
I can see from the claim records that there were delays in appointing a contractor. When a 
contractor attended it was recommended that repairs were carried out to the neighbouring 
garage at the same time. Zurich advised it wasnt responsible for the neighbouring property. 
There were further discussions around repairs being carried out to the adjacent garage. 
It took a number of months before matters progressed. I note Zurichs comments that it 
accepts responsibility for some of these delays. 
A schedule of works was eventually produced in August 2022. This set out the repairs that 
Zurichs contractor would complete. It details Mrs Ss concerns about felt work repairs to the 
neighbouring garage. It also says the felt hasnt been stuck down and is, only one layer. 
The schedule of work confirms the damaged sections of roof are to be replaced. It says the 
roof will be re-covered and will overlap onto the existing roof felt to achieve a watertight seal. 
I can see that the repairs to Mrs Ss garage were completed toward the end of October 
2022. After receiving Mrs Ss contact about continuing water ingress, Zurich instructed a surveyor 
to inspect her garage in January 2023. The following comments were made:
The garage sits amongst a block of garages of 10 long with the two rows of garages 'back 
to back'.
The garages are in a wide range of condition, some with roof collapses, all with a mixture of 
roof coverings and ages. The roof adjacent to the insured's garage is in a poor condition with 
the roofing felt not even bonded down and can be lifted by hand. Additionally there is a 
gutter on the middle of the roofs. The outlet pipe is within the neighbours garage. Given the 
damp ingress here I would suspect that there are issues with the internal down pipe - likely 
to be disconnected. This is why the wall is saturated.
Really, all garage roofs should be replaced, internal down pipes checked and connected up 
to the roofing system property, and secured internally. Until such time as this is completed 
there will always be issues, as the other neighbouring roofs are out of our control..
Ive looked at the photos accompanying the surveyors comments. I think this reasonably 
supports his description of the layout of the garages and their condition. I note the surveyor 
was asked if the repairs were carried out to the specification expected and if they were of a 
reasonable standard. His response was, I have no issue with the work conducted by 
[contractor]. The surveyor also responded to say, The roof covering has been replaced 
over our garage and as such the defect has been remedied. The surrounding roofs were and 
are still in a poor condition. The issue is now with the garage to the right of our's [sic] - poor 
roof covering, loose or no connected internal down pipe.
Ive thought carefully about whether Zurich has treated Mrs S fairly here. 
This was a complicated situation given the co-dependency Mrs Ss garage has to the 
condition of the neighbouring garages. It hasnt been straight forward for Mrs S to identify the 
parties involved. Communication has clearly been difficult and protracted. Im sorry that 
shes had such a difficult and frustrating experience when trying to arrange an effective 
repair to her garage roof.  
That said, Mrs Ss policy with Zurich covers her property not her neighbours. We expect an 
insurer to put in place effective and lasting repairs in response to a loss claim. However, 
there are limits to what Zurich is able to do. It cant reasonably be expected to arrange or 
pay for repairs to a property that isnt covered by its insurance policy. Even where the 
defects thought to exist in a neighbouring property impact on its insureds property. 
I think its reasonable that repairs were delayed until the neighbouring garage had 
undergone repairs. The decision to carry out the repairs, and what this entailed, was based 
on the expert opinion of Zurichs surveyor and appointed contractor. Based on what Ive read 
I dont think Zurich acted unreasonably or that it couldve done more when arranging these 
repairs. I think it acted fairly considering the requirements of Mrs S policy and in carrying out 
repairs to the roof of her garage. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ss comments that the damage, hasnt returned as Zurich claims, but 
that, it was never repaired. I disagree. The damage to Mrs Ss property was repaired. It 
appears that there is a defect with the neighbouring garage that is causing water to ingress 
into her property. But this is outside of Mrs Ss property boundary. This isnt something 
Zurich is responsible for repairing under its policy. 
Mrs S says shes not asking for £500 compensation, all she wants is for the water to stop 
entering her garage. Its evident from the claim records that there were delays on Zurichs part when handling Mrs 
Ss claim. I note her comments that she only wants the water ingress to stop. But I think its 
reasonable that Zurich compensates her for its part in the delayed progression of her claim. I 
think its offer of compensation is fair.  
Ive read the lease documentation Mrs S provided. I note her comments that Zurich is also 
the insurer for the landlord of her neighbours garage. She says the lease agreement gives 
the lessor or its servants or agents with or without workmen the right to enter the garage 
and, twice in every year view and examine the condition its in. I note her comments that she 
does everything she can to, mitigate, control and repair her flat and garage. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ss comments, along with her lease agreement. But I dont 
think this shows Zurich treated her unfairly regarding her claim. Or in relation to the repairs it 
arranged to her garage roof. The lease agreement may allow certain access to a lessor. But 
any repairs or access to the neighbouring garage isnt something Zurich is responsible for. 
Zurich is only responsible for the loss claim relating to Mrs Ss property. It must deal with the 
claim in line with its policy terms and conditions, which I think it has. Because of this I dont 
think Mrs S has shown that Zurich treat her unfairly. 
Although Im sorry for the ongoing problems Mrs S has with water ingress to her garage, I 
dont think Zurich treated her unfairly for the reasons Ive discussed. So, I cant reasonably 
ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman