DRN-3368053
The complaint
Mr B complains that QIC Europe Limited mishandled his claim on his van insurance policy.
Where I refer to QIC, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold QIC responsible 
for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and complaint is a van first registered in 2015. Mr B acquired 
the van on about 5 September 2021.
Mr B went online and used a price comparison website. For the year from 6 September 
2021, Mr B took out a policy for the van. QIC was the insurance company responsible for 
dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, on about 7 September 2021 Mr B reported that the van had been stolen.
On 24 September 2021, QIC interviewed Mr B. On 4 October QIC received a report.
On about 15 October 2021, QIC decided  that  when hed taken out the policy - Mr B had 
made misrepresentations.
On about 18 October 2021, Mr B complained to QIC about delay in dealing with his claim.
On about 21 October 2021, QIC told Mr B it was treating the policy as void from the start. It 
said it wouldnt pay his claim. QIC returned the premium Mr B had paid. Mr B complained to 
QIC about that outcome.
By a final response dated about 27 October 2021, QIC turned down his complaint. Mr B 
brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She referred to 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). She thought 
that QIC had made a reasonable decision to treat the policy as void and not to pay the claim.
However, the investigator thought that QIC could have dealt with Mr Bs claim and the 
voidance faster. She thought that waiting for the outcome of his claim wouldve been 
frustrating and upsetting. She recommended that QIC should pay £100.00 in compensation.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He doesnt consider the van was modified.
The comparison site defaulted his occupation to bus driver. 
He didnt get the policy documents in time to check them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepts that he had been involved in a non-fault claim in February 2019.
From the photographs, I find that someone other than the manufacturer had carpeted the 
interior of the van and added a side window and a television monitor.
When he took out the policy, Mr B was employed as a driver collecting waste cooking oil. 
From the statement of fact, I see that Mr B said he would use the van for social domestic 
and pleasure purposes. So I dont think he was using it for his employers business or any 
business of his own.
QIC asked a question about his occupation. Mr B answered that his occupation was a bus 
driver in the industry of  public transport. That wasnt correct.
As Mr B mustve known he wasnt driving a public service vehicle, I find that he hadnt taken 
reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation about his occupation. I consider that 
he must take responsibility for his answer even if it was suggested by the comparison site.
QIC asked the following question about accidents and claims:
Have you or any person who may drive been involved in any accident, claim or loss 
(including loss by fire, theft or malicious acts), irrespective of blame, during the past 
three years?
Mr B answered that he had no such accidents or claims. That wasnt correct. Hed been 
involved in the claim in February 2019. 
As only about two and a half years had passed, I find that he hadnt taken reasonable care 
to avoid making a misrepresentation about the accident.
QIC asked the following question about any modification of the van:
Has your vehicle been modified, altered or adapted in any way from the 
manufacturers standard specification, including any manufacturer or dealer fitted 
options, whether or not performance is altered, or do you intend to alter it later? 
Mr B answered that there were no modifications. That wasnt correct.
As he shouldve known that his van wasnt manufactured with, for example a carpeted load 
bay, I find that he hadnt taken reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation about 
modifications.
CIDRA imposes a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care to avoid making a 
misrepresentation at the time of taking out a policy. Whilst we expect insurers to send policy 
documents to the consumer, there is no period of grace for a consumer to correct any 
misrepresentation. So the timing of the receipt of documents doesnt make any difference to 
the outcome of this complaint.I accept QICs underwriting evidence that it wouldnt have insured Mr B if hed said he was a 
collection driver. So under CIDRA, Mr B had made a qualifying misrepresentation of his 
occupation. As QIC wouldnt have insured him, I dont find that QIC treated him unfairly by 
saying that the policy had been void from the start, so it wouldnt pay his claim.
So  whilst I understand the scale of Mr Bs loss - I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
QIC to treat the policy as valid or to meet the claim.
But I consider that QIC couldve acted more swiftly to manage Mr Bs expectations of what 
was likely to happen with his claim. And I accept that this caused Mr B some extra 
disappointment at an already difficult time for him.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct QIC to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct QIC Europe Limited to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman