DRN-2623972
The complaint
Mr I complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) told him he could transfer his 
pension to another provider, but this proved to be wrong 
What happened
Mr P said Aegon told him he could transfer his pension. He said he accepted a binding offer 
to transfer on 8 January and Aegon should be bound by that. Aegons advice was wrong and 
he wanted compensation for the costs he faced as he had drawn £6000 for a holiday in 
anticipation of being able to take a lump sum from his pension post transfer. He said the 
provision of a transfer value implies that a transfer is available. Surely a transfer value 
wouldnt be provided if one was not available. This coupled with the fact Aegon said he could 
transfer to another provider reinforced that position. He was unhappy with the £500 redress.
Aegon upheld Mr Is complaint and paid him £500 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In short, I said that before I could consider any 
loss or award for distress and inconvenience, I must first decide if Aegon did anything wrong. 
It was clear from the correspondence and in particular the call in early January that Aegon 
wrongly implied a transfer was possible. Aegon have accepted that and made a payment for 
this. I could therefore consider any financial loss and distress and inconvenience caused.
I considered whether Mr I had suffered any financial loss. He argued that a contract was 
created to make the transfer in early January and that he accepted it and Aegon should be 
bound to go ahead. But I didnt agree. I had listened to the call. Aegon pointed out that there 
was a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) and pointed out that papers would be required 
to deal with this. I accepted the adviser wrongly suggests that this can be done. But the IFA 
says the receiving insurance company isnt expecting to give confirmation and Mr I isnt 
bothered about the GMP. The call concluded with the adviser saying he needed to request a 
quote and send it on with relevant papers and this would take seven to ten days. At that 
stage the detailed papers had not be produced and signed so there was no clear basis for 
any offer that could be accepted as Mr I suggested.
Even if I was wrong and it did create an offer it was not accepted before it was withdrawn. I 
said that because it was clear papers needed to be produced and signed. By the next day 
the adviser called back to say he was wrong the transfer couldnt happen because the value 
was lower than that needed to secure the GMP and Aegon confirms this in writing.
There may also have been misunderstanding before January regarding a possible transfer. 
Where there is an incorrect statement the law would seek to put Mr I back in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the incorrect statement. The correct position was that legally a 
transfer wasnt possible. So, Mr I was put back in the position the law would say he was 
entitled to, which was that he couldnt transfer.
But if Mr I acted in reliance on the wrong statement, told Aegon that he was relying on what 
they said and entered into financial commitments in reliance on what was said the law would 
say he may have a recoverable loss. I had listened to the call and there was no suggestion 
that Mr I was going to act in reliance on what was said and book a holiday.
In any event I didnt think Mr I did rely on what was said. I said that because Mr I said he 
took money from another policy as he had to pay for some flights. Mr I has supplied copies 
of his credit card statements. I can see that flights were booked in mid and late February. 
So, I didnt think he could have booked them in reliance on what was said in early January, 
as Aegon corrected its position long before the flights were booked. Mr I also said he cashed 
in another policy to meet these holiday costs. But I can see that this took place in February 
by which time he wouldve been aware that the transfer couldnt proceed. So, I didnt think 
Mr I acted in reliance on what was said and didnt suffer a recoverable financial loss. 
I could however see that the incorrect statement would have caused Mr I distress and 
inconvenience. I considered whether an award would be appropriate to reflect the impact on 
him. I thought it mustve been frustrating. I thought that an award was merited but noted that 
Aegon had already paid Mr I £500. This was more than I would have awarded so I thought 
the payment already made by Aegon was fair and reasonable.
Aegon said it had nothing further to add and thought my proposed decision was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr I didnt agree. He said the transfer to another fund would provide greater flexibility and 
more active management of his pension that in his view would lead to increased growth in 
the value of the fund and a more suitable vehicle to manage his pension needs. 
He accepted that this contention about increased growth could only be measured over time. 
He also said the transfer would increase benefits to his beneficiaries in the event of his 
death. The payment of holiday costs was a timing issue and not the sole reason to seek to 
transfer the funds to what he thought was a better, flexible vehicle more suited to his long-
term needs. 
It seemed to him the crux of the matter revolved around the initial telephone conversations to 
which he wasnt a party and hadnt heard the recording. He still felt that if a transfer value 
was requested and provided it is reasonable to assume that a transfer to another scheme 
was being offered. Given Aegon had asked him to waive the GMP position this also 
supported that stance, otherwise why ask him to waive it. He still felt there was an offer and 
acceptance that brought a contract into existence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and for the reasons given I havent changed my mind. Unfortunately, it 
wasnt possible for Mr I to transfer. While his reasons and motivations for the transfer may 
well be sound that doesnt change the fact Aegon has said a transfer wasnt legally possible 
due to the value of his GMP.
My final decision
I have decided that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) has made a fair offer
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 Colette Bewley
Ombudsman