DRN-2387980
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Limited wont accept liability for remedial repairs 
to a wall its contractors rebuilt pursuant to her home insurance claim for impact damage.
 
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs D made a claim to Tesco after her front wall was crashed into by a car. 
Tesco appointed contractors to rebuild one side of the wall and rehang two garden gates. 
The left side of the wall was rebuilt in March to April 2019. After the work was finished, Mrs D 
noticed the wall was cracking just where the left hand gate was hung. She reported this to 
Tesco who sent its contractors back to assess the damage. They concluded that the wall 
must have had further impact, causing the further damage. They noted that the council had 
been tarmacking the pavement and there was some debris around the base of the wall. 
Tesco advised that it wouldnt be repairing the wall but suggested that Mrs D could get an 
independent report on the damage which it would consider.
Mrs D obtained a report from a local tradesman who said that either the gate was hung too 
quickly after the construction of the wall or the ratio of the sand to cement was too weak.
Tesco rejected that view. Its contractors said that if the incorrect mortar mix had been used 
the cracking would appear in all the sections equally. They also said that the gate had been 
hung five days after the wall was completed. Tesco further pointed out that the report was 
from a local tradesman who carried out DIY repairs. His headed paper contained spelling 
mistakes.
On review by this service our investigator said that from review of the photos it seemed more 
likely that the wall was damaged because of the way it was built or the gate was hung. He 
noted the contractors explanation that the council workers damaged the wall but felt that this 
was speculation. He said that Tesco should cover the cost of rebuilding the wall and hanging 
the gate.
Tesco disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether its reasonable to hold Tesco responsible for carrying out further 
repairs to the wall, or whether Mrs D should pursue further options. I understand that she 
doesnt have extended accidental damage cover on her policy.
When Mrs D approached Tesco about the damage it said it would review it further if she 
obtained an independent report from a tradesman. She did that and I think it unfair to 
criticise the quality of the report. If Tesco had wanted a surveyors or engineers report it 
could have said so.
Looking at the photos there is localised damage around the top hinge of the gate. The 
cracking follows the lines of the mortar. Tescos contractors say the council is to blame 
though I dont know whether they are alleging that the machinery for tarmacking or a vehicle 
caused the damage. But as our investigator said, thats speculation on Tescos part. I would 
think that if it were impact damage the wall would be distorted from front to back as an 
impact from the front would cause. But here I think the photos show that the wall has been 
pulled at the side in the way that a heavy gate (as here) would pull the brickwork slightly out 
of alignment.
I appreciate that a full surveyors or engineers report hasnt been carried out so I dont know 
the precise reason for the damage. But if the mortar mix was wrong it seems to me that it 
would crack at the point of the highest stress i.e. the hinge at the top of the gate. It wouldnt 
necessarily crack at other points. I think that bearing in mind the damage occurred soon after 
the work was completed that it was caused by the standard of repair rather than any outside 
force. 
Putting things right
Tesco is required to pay for the wall to be rebuilt at the point of the damage and for the gate 
to be rehung.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to act as Ive set out above 
under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman