DRN-3258568
The complaint
Mr A complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of his travel insurance claim 
and its compensation payment for his distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr A has travel insurance through his bank account. The insurer is UKI.
On 16 December 2020 Mr A booked flights to travel abroad from 18 to 22 December 2020. 
After he arrived at the airport for his return flight to the UK the airline cancelled his flight due 
to Covid-19 restrictions. He says the airline told him hed need to book an alternative return 
flight to the UK which he was able to book the next day. Mr A claimed for his additional 
expenses of the flight, accommodation and taxi fares. 
UKI settled Mr As claim under the Delayed International Departure section of his policy, 
which had a limit of £250. Mr A thought UKI was unfair to consider the claim under that 
section of the policy and limit the payment. He also said UKI hadnt been clear about its 
claim decision and had given him poor customer service.
UKI accepted it should have given Mr A a better explanation of why it had considered the 
claim under the delay section and should have called him to discuss as he requested. UKI 
apologised and paid Mr A £75 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service.
Mr A complained to us. He said his expenses were much more than the £250 UKI paid and  
£75 compensation wasnt enough for the stress hed experienced as a result of UKIs poor 
service. He wants UKI to pay his full costs.
Our investigator said UKI had fairly settled the claim and the £75 compensation for Mr As  
distress and inconvenience was a reasonable amount.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I have to decide whether UKIs settlement of 
Mr As claim was fair and its compensation for his distress and inconvenience reasonable, 
and I think they were. Ill explain why.
Mr A found himself having to pay additional expenses to get home through no fault of his 
own and they were considerably more than the £250 UKI paid in settlement of his claim. But 
no travel insurance policy provides cover for every situation. Insurers are allowed to decide 
what risks they are prepared to cover and the cover UKI gives Mr A is set out in the terms 
and conditions of his policy.
Mr A was able to go on his trip and his trip wasnt cut short, so the Cancellation and 
Curtailment sections of the policy dont apply. 
The Missed International Departure (outbound or on your return) policy terms dont apply to 
Mr As situation. Those terms only apply if Mr A had failed to get to the airport as a result of 
his scheduled public transport or connecting scheduled flight to the airport failing to run to 
timetable or the private car in which he travelling being in an accident or breaking down, 
which didnt happen.
The Abandoned International Departure (outbound only) policy terms dont apply as they 
are for outbound journeys only and Mr A was on his return journey.
Ive looked at the remaining policy terms and the only terms that could apply are the 
Delayed International Departure (outbound or on your return) policy terms which say:
We will cover you for your additional accommodation, travel and refreshment costs if 
you have checked in and your pre-booked aircraft is delayed by more than four 
hours beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at the point of international 
departure...
The most we will pay for each insured person is:
£250 for Delayed International Departure.
I understand that Mr A didnt check in for his flight when he was at the airport. If he didnt 
then strictly theres no cover under the Delayed International Departure section either. So 
I think UKI acted reasonably in deciding that even though Mr A hadnt checked in it would 
still pay the benefit to the maximum limit of £250. If Mr A had checked in UKI paid him £250 
as the policy cover states.
I dont think theres any other terms of the other policy that would cover Mr As situation. So 
Im satisfied that UKI fairly settled Mr As claim for £250 under the Delayed International 
Departure section.
UKI accepted it could have better explained its decision to Mr A and had better 
communication with him. I appreciate Mr A was stressed by UKIs service but Im satisfied 
that the £75 compensation UKI paid him was a reasonable amount to acknowledge his 
distress and inconvenience at its poor service.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman