DRN-2257383
The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited gave her incorrect 
information about the expected investment returns on her pension savings. She also 
complains that a letter sent to her when her pension benefits were being paid was unclear, 
leading her to think that the cheques paying those funds had been lost.
What happened
Mrs H has made a separate complaint about a number of matters that led to her pension 
savings being invested in a cash fund, and then subsequently being paid to her. I will be 
issuing a separate final decision in relation to those matters so wont deal with them in this 
decision.
Mrs H has held pension savings with Prudential arising from a previous employment since 
1994. Those pension savings were originally invested in a with profits fund but were 
transferred by Prudential to a cash fund as Mrs H approached her selected retirement date.
In August 2019 Mrs H discussed the returns that she might receive on her pension savings 
now they had been transferred to the cash fund. Prudentials records of that call, and 
Mrs Hs recollections, suggest that she was told interest would be paid on her pension 
savings in the cash fund at a rate equivalent to the Bank of England Base Rate (0.75% at 
that time). That information was incorrect, and Mrs H says that despite her repeating it on a 
number of later calls with Prudential it wasnt corrected.
Mrs H decided to take her retirement benefits from Prudential towards the end of 2019. After 
she had completed the necessary paperwork Prudential wrote to Mrs H in February 2020 
confirming that her pension benefits had been paid, as she had instructed, as a cash lump 
sum. It told her that two separate cheques had been sent. But those cheques werent 
included with the letter  they were sent under separate cover. Mrs H says that wasnt made 
clear in the letter and so she was caused unnecessary worry thinking they had been lost.
Prudential agreed with much of Mrs Hs complaint. It accepted that it had given her incorrect 
information about the interest rate that would be paid on the cash account. And it agreed its 
letter could have been clearer, and explained that the cheques had been sent separately. 
Whilst it wasnt willing to pay direct compensation to Mrs H in relation to the interest shed 
been told she would receive, it offered her £150 for the trouble and upset shed been 
caused.
Mrs H didnt agree with Prudentials response. So she brought her complaint to this Service. 
Her complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Overall he thought the offer 
Prudential had made to Mrs H was reasonable compensation for the incorrect information 
shed been given about the interest rate, and the poorly worded letter shed been sent. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Prudential has accepted that the information it gave Mrs H in August 2019 about the interest 
that would be paid on her pension savings in the cash account was incorrect. It told Mrs H 
that they would attract interest at the Bank of England Base Rate. That wasnt the case and 
in fact Mrs H saw no growth in her pension savings between July 2019 (when they were 
moved into the cash fund) and February 2020 (when her benefits were paid to her). So in 
line with what I said above, I dont need to decide whether anything went wrong here  that 
has already been established. I need to decide what it would be reasonable to ask 
Prudential to do, to put things right.
It seems to me that Mrs H was aware that her pension savings being in the cash fund would 
severely restrict the investment returns they received. But it also seems to me that, having 
been told they would receive interest at 0.75%, she decided to leave them  in place whilst 
she considered her retirement options. The incorrect information was given to Mrs H on 
5 August, and she completed her application to take her benefits on 18 January. So it is for 
that period that I would consider Mrs H lost out on the investment returns she had been 
promised  that is for her funds to grow at 0.75%.
So considering the size of Mrs Hs pension savings, and the time period referenced above, 
I think it could be argued that she would have expected them to grow by around £98. But 
that additional income would have been paid to Mrs H as part of her pension lump sum. 
Therefore in assessing Mrs Hs loss I should take account of the fact that it would have 
attracted income tax and so its value should be reduced by 20%. But Mrs H would have 
been able to take an additional tax free lump sum, so the reduction should be only applied to 
75% of the interest. So I would calculate that the additional amount Mrs H would have 
received, had she been paid interest on her pension savings at the Bank of England 
Base Rate, would have been a little over £80.
The letter that Mrs H received when her pension benefits were being paid to her explained 
that Prudential had sent her two separate cheques. I agree that the letter wasnt sufficiently 
clear. Whilst I accept that it didnt specifically say that the cheques were enclosed, it didnt 
say that they werent. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs H to assume the cheques 
would be enclosed with the letter, and so I can understand her fears that they had gone 
astray. And so I think it reasonable that Prudential pays her some compensation for the 
trouble and upset that this would have caused to her.But overall, if I look at the financial loss Ive detailed above that Mrs H suffered from the 
incorrect information about the interest rates, and the period of time where she might have 
been concerned that the two cheques had gone astray, I dont think compensation of more 
than the £150 that Prudential has already offered would be appropriate. It isnt clear to me 
whether Prudential has by now paid that sum to Mrs H  if it hasnt it should do so 
immediately. But I dont think Prudential needs to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any further award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman