DRN-2564097
The complaint
X is unhappy, in respect of her landlord insurance claim for malicious damage by her tenant, 
that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) delayed in making a payment for loss of rent.
What happened
In August 2017 X suffered damage to her property caused by the tenants who had left. She 
pursued the tenants through the courts and after that made a claim to RSA in March 2019. X 
had a number of complaints as the matter progressed but, with the exception of the loss of 
rent, those complaints have either been resolved or dealt with separately by this service.
In respect of the loss of rent, RSA said it was quite prepared to pay this if X produced 
evidence that she had a tenant ready to move in and the tenancy had to be delayed or 
cancelled because of the damage to the property. It asked X for this several times, and once 
she produced the evidence (a letter from her contractor), requested Xs bank details and 
paid her a settlement including the lost rent in October 2020.
X thought that RSA had made an unreasonable request and that there was a lengthy delay 
in it paying the loss of rent.
On referral to this service our investigator said that RSA had acted reasonably.
X didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first of all reiterate to X that the only complaint I am considering in this decision is that 
concerning the loss of rent. Xs other complaints with this service relating to her claim have 
been dealt with.
X complains that RSA delayed in paying her loss of rent under the terms of the policy, and 
that it asked her for unnecessary information.
When X asked RSA for her loss of rent it explained to her that this could only be paid if she 
had a tenant ready to move in and the tenancy had to be delayed or cancelled because of 
the damage to the property. She said she did have such a tenant ready, and they couldnt 
proceed until the repairs were finished. RSA asked for evidence, in the form of a letter from 
her contractor. I think that was reasonable, under the terms of the policy RSA is entitled to 
ask for such evidence as is necessary to prove the claim. And it was in my view relatively 
straightforward to ask the contractor for such a letter
RSA first asked X for this evidence in September 2019. It sent reminders about it in October 
2019 and then in March, June and July 2020. X sent the necessary information in August 
2020. RSA approved it and asked for Xs bank details. It made a final payment including the 
loss of rent in October 2020. During this time other negotiations were taking place regarding 
the claim. At no time did X suggest that she couldnt get the evidence although I appreciate 
that the whole claim was stressful for her. But, in respect of the loss of rent I think RSA didnt 
cause any delay. And as Ive said it was reasonable of it to ask for the evidence, and it acted 
promptly on it once received. So I think it acted reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman