DRN-3226456
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan. 
Background
Honeycomb provided Mr D with a loan for £7,000.00 in September 2016. The loan had an 
APR of 18.9% and a 36-month term. This meant that the total amount to repay of £9,020.35, 
which included interest of £2,020.35 was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
around £250. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Honeycomb shouldnt have 
provided this loan as it ought to have realised it was unaffordable. 
Honeycomb disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ds complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Honeycomb complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr D would be able to repay his loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering 
significant adverse consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Honeycomb act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Honeycomb complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay his loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant adverse 
consequences?
Honeycomb provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Honeycomb to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments 
under these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Honeycomb had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr D. In practice this 
meant that Honeycomb had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause 
Mr D undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Honeycomb to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive carefully 
thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Honeycombs checks reasonable and proportionate?
Honeycomb says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr D prior 
to providing him with his loan. This information was validated against a credit check and a 
bank statement which Mr D was asked to provide. 
So bearing in mind Honeycomb says and has evidenced that it obtained a significant amount 
of information on Mr Ds circumstances, Im prepared to accept that it did carry out 
proportionate checks  at least in terms of the information requested  before providing this 
loan to Mr D.
Did Honeycomb make fair lending decisions?It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Honeycomb says its assessment of the 
information obtained led it to conclude that Mr Ds loan was affordable for him as hed be 
able to sustainably make his repayments.
Honeycomb was required to establish whether Mr D could make his loan repayments without 
borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided in light of this. Having done so, its worth 
noting even on Honeycombs own assessment the payments for this loan took up a 
significant chunk of what it concluded was Mr Ds disposable income. And the expenditure 
side of the calculation didnt include anything for Mr Ds existing credit commitments even 
though this loan wasnt enough to clear all of his debts. 
Furthermore, the bank statement Honeycomb asked Mr D to provide showed that he was 
earning less than what it had worked out as Mr Ds income. So while I appreciate what 
Honeycomb said in response to our adjudicators assessment, I do think that it ought to have 
been on notice there was a discrepancy here - otherwise there was simply no point in 
attempting to validate Mr Ds income. And when the lower income is taken into account, its 
unlikely that Mr D had sufficient funds to repay what he was committing to without borrowing 
further or experiencing difficulty.
So, in my view, while Honeycomb believed that the monthly payments were pounds and 
pence affordable for Mr D, I think the information available suggested Mr D was always 
unlikely to be able to make the payments he was being asked to commit to without 
borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences. Indeed, the recorded 
purpose of this loan at the time was to repay other debts and even then the funds provided 
werent enough to do this.
Bearing this in mind, and what exactly it was Honeycomb was required to consider, Im 
satisfied that Honeycombs decision to provide this loan to Mr D wasnt fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Did Honeycomb act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Honeycomb acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some other way. 
Did Mr D lose out as a result of Honeycomb unfairly providing him with his loan?
As Mr D paid interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Honeycomb did wrong.
So I think that Honeycomb needs to put things right.Fair compensation  what Honeycomb needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, Honeycomb should put things right for Mr D by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr D paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr D to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file as a result of this 
loan;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Honeycomb to take off tax from this interest. 
Honeycomb must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Honeycomb Finance Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman