DRN-1852134
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has turned down 
a claim on his critical illness policy for multiple sclerosis (MS). Royal London says this is 
because Mr S answered a question about his medical history incorrectly when he first 
applied for the policy in 2016.
What happened
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Royal London was entitled under the 
law to treat the policy as it wouldve done had Mr S answered the question correctly.
Mr S hasnt agreed. He accepts that he made a mistake in answering the question but points 
out that he wasnt (and couldnt have been) diagnosed with MS when he experienced 
symptoms of numbness and tingling in 2014  in fact he was told this was probably down to 
stress. And due to an administrative error, he wasnt asked to follow this up with any further 
investigation with a consultant after he visited a hospital.
Mr S has also said he doesnt accept that, had he answered yes to the question, 
Royal London wouldve refused to cover him for MS at all. He believes Royal London is 
effectively using hindsight to find a reason to reject his claim.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S and I would like to assure him I havent made this decision 
lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence he and Royal London have 
provided us  and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not 
because I havent considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer. 
So the issues for me to consider are whether Mr S made a misrepresentation when taking 
out this policy, and if so, whether Royal London has shown it wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all or wouldve done on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?When applying for this policy in 2016, Mr S was asked:
Apart from anything you've already told us about, during the last 5 years have you had, or do 
you currently have, any of the following []
Any form of:
 Numbness
 Pins and needles
[]
 Tingling
[]
This includes symptoms that you have had even if you have not consulted a doctor.
After considering the above question, I believe its clear in that it wanted Mr S to confirm if he 
had ever experienced any of the above symptoms. He answered no  and accepts that he 
forgot to mention an episode in 2014 where he experienced symptoms that included 
numbness from the waist down and tingling sensations. He points out that he wasnt 
diagnosed with anything at the time, and that the medical professionals he saw suggested 
this might have been caused by extreme stress, and an administrative error meant he wasnt 
asked to follow this up with further investigation.
However, the question doesnt make any reference to a cause or diagnosis for the 
symptoms  it only asks whether Mr S experienced them at all in the previous five years. So, 
I think its fair for Royal London to say he should have answered yes.
What would Royal London have done differently? 
It would be unfair to require an insurer to honour a contract when the terms it agreed to were 
influenced by incorrect information. Royal London has said Mr S was careless when he 
failed to answer the above question correctly. Im not satisfied he deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented his medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise his actions as 
careless here.
So where there has been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says insurers can re-
underwrite the policy as they wouldve done if theyd received correct answers. 
Royal London has provided us with information from its underwriting department, including 
parts of the underwriting manual it used at the time to set out its general approach to new 
applications. Ive looked at this evidence independently and have taken into account that 
there wasnt any follow-up investigation by his consultant of Mr Ss symptoms (which wasnt 
his fault) in 2014. I accept that Royal Londons normal approach wouldve been to add a 
condition to the policy wording stating that it wouldnt pay any claim relating to degenerative 
disease of the nervous system - which would include MS. So, under CIDRA, Royal London 
can treat the policy as if it had always included that term. This means it can turn down the 
claim for MS.
While I can see that Mr S feels strongly about this, Im satisfied from the evidence that this 
term wouldve formed part of Royal Londons normal approach, and it hasnt targeted him or 
his situation unfairly. The symptoms the question asks about can be common early signs of neurological disease and I think thats exactly why the application asks about them. So, Im 
satisfied that Royal London wanting to limit the risk it takes on by excluding such diseases 
from the cover isnt unfair or means its acted outside of CIDRA. 
The evidence Ive seen also shows that Royal London would have charged Mr S more for 
his cover. Normally CIDRA would allow insurers to take other steps in that event  but 
Royal Londons chosen not to do so here. So, although I understand that this remains a very 
disappointing outcome for Mr S, I find Royal Londons approach fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman