DRN-2110060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wrongly set up a joint account. 
The result is that Mrs D is now being held liable for Mr Ds debts. 
What happened
Some time before April 2019 Mr D found himself in financial difficulty. He entered into an 
individual voluntary arrangement (or IVA) with his creditors, which included NatWest. The 
bank acknowledges that it was told about the IVA and that it didnt initially progress Mr and 
Mrs Ds account to its collections team as it should have done. The account wasnt used, 
however, and the bank took action to correct its error.
When the account was moved to NatWests collections department, Mr and Mrs D said that 
it shouldnt have been set up as a joint account; it should have remained a sole account in 
Mr Ds name. The effect of the account being in joint names was that Mrs D was liable for 
any money owing on the account; at the end of April 2019 the account was nearly £2,500 
overdrawn. 
NatWest looked into what had happened and identified that Mrs D had been added as a 
party to Mr Ds account in November 2014. It located the application form from that time, 
signed by both Mr and Mrs D. It didnt believe any error had been made. 
Mr and Mrs D referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. 
He thought the evidence showed that Mr and Mrs D had asked for a joint account to be set 
up and that the bank had provided sufficient information on the effect of this. He thought the 
bank had treated Mr and Mrs D fairly. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings 
and asked that an ombudsman review them.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank set out in its response to the complaint some areas in which it hadnt dealt with the 
account as well as it should have done when it found out about Mr Ds IVA. That isnt the 
main part of the complaint, but for the sake of completeness, Im satisfied its taken 
appropriate steps to correct its errors.
The main part of the complaint however concerns the addition of Mrs D to Mr Ds account in 
2014.
As Ive indicated, NatWest was able to locate the application to add Mrs D to Mr Ds account. 
The application was signed by both of them  and they dont appear to dispute that. Mr D 
says however that his intention at the time was to apply for a loan but that the adviser 
suggested an account which offered benefits including travel insurance and breakdown 
cover; the adviser also suggested that Mrs D be added to the account. He says too that he 
didnt realise Mrs Ds name had been added to the account.
Mr and Mrs D havent made any complaint about the features of the account; their concern is 
only with the addition of Mrs D as a party to it. However, it seems to me very clear that they 
requested that and agreed to it. I dont accept that they didnt know the account was a joint 
one  not only did they sign a form requesting that, they would have received statements for 
several years with both their names as account holders.
Nor does it appear to me that it was inappropriate to add Mrs D to the account. Indeed, there 
seems to have been no detriment to her until Mr D entered into an IVA several years later. 
They would not have anticipated that happening when the account was made a joint one in 
2014. But, as the investigator noted, the account terms made it clear that both account 
holders would be responsible for any overdraft and that the bank could ask one of them to 
repay all of it, not just a share.
In the circumstances and for these reasons, I dont believe the bank has treated Mr and Mrs 
D unfairly.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman