DRN-2009559
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited unfairly charged her interest 
on her Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement.
What happened
Ms B took out a BNPL agreement with Shop Direct when she made a purchase around June 
2018. The BNPL delayed payment period ended on 12 July 2020, but Ms B didnt pay the 
outstanding balance until 15 July 2020. So Shop Direct decided to apply interest to Ms Bs 
account to the sum of £1,058.22.
Ms B complained to Shop Direct after it didnt agree to waive the interest. She says she 
made a mistake and experienced a mix up with the date the outstanding balance was due. 
Shop Direct referred to its terms and conditions as well as Ms Bs statements. It concluded 
that she had enough information about how interest would be charged as well as when Ms B 
needed to pay the outstanding balance by.
After Ms B referred her complaint to this service, our investigator felt that Shop Direct had 
acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions. Ms B didnt agree so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions of Ms Bs BNPL agreement, which Shop 
Direct says she wouldve seen around the time of her application and couldve 
accessed online. The terms explain that interest is calculated from the date the 
purchase is made and is compounded during the delayed payment period. The terms 
say that the interest amount would be added to Ms Bs account immediately after the 
delayed payment period ends and that she can avoid paying interest by paying off 
the balance before the end of the delayed payment period. Ms B didnt pay off her 
outstanding balance on time  she paid it around three days late. So I cant say that 
Shop Direct acted unfairly by applying interest to Ms Bs account.
Ms B says she made a mistake and experienced a mix up with the BNPL end date. 
Ive seen a copy of Ms Bs statements  the statement dated June 2019 sets out the 
date by which Ms B needs to pay off her outstanding balance by (12 July 2019) in 
order to avoid being charged interest and sets out the estimated interest that would 
be charged if she is unable to pay off the balance on time. In my opinion, Shop Direct 
provided enough information to make Ms B aware that she needed to pay off her 
balance by 12 July if she wanted to avoid being charged interest. So I cant say that 
Shop Direct acted unfairly because of this. 
In this instance, Ms B seems to have made a genuine error and I have no reason to 
doubt that she had every intention to pay off the outstanding balance on time. But my 
role is to determine if Shop Direct has acted unfairly and, if so, explain what it should 
do to put things right. However, I havent seen anything that suggests this is the case 
 so I wont be asking Shop Direct to do anything more.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman