DRN-2874654
The complaint
Mr P complains he was misled when he took out a mortgage with TSB Bank plc. He says he 
had to take out a larger loan than he needed, and at a higher interest rate. He says he didnt 
receive the funds when hed asked for them. 
What happened
In late 2019 Mr P applied for a mortgage with TSB to be secured on his property. He 
intended to use the funds to help a relative buy a property. TSB sent a mortgage offer for an 
interest only mortgage of about £168,000. Mr P says he thought hed be able to borrow up to 
this amount. But when he contacted TSB in mid-2020 to say he wanted to borrow £150,000 
and apply for a lower interest rate it said hed have to make a new application, which could 
take three to four months.
Mr P also says he asked for the funds by 7 August 2020. He didnt receive the funds until 12 
August and had to pay for a CHAPS transfer. 
TSB said it hadnt misled Mr P about the terms of the mortgage offer and it wasnt 
responsible for any problems with the transfer of funds by the solicitor. TSB paid £50 to Mr P 
for any upset caused when a call was disconnected. 
Our investigator said TSB hadnt made errors which caused Mr P financial loss. He said TSB 
sent the money to Mr Ps solicitor and wasnt responsible for how or when the solicitor 
transferred the money to Mr P. The investigator said £50 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for any service issues. Mr P didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P applied to TSB for a mortgage in late 2019. It issued a mortgage offer for £168,000 on 
an interest only basis. While Mr P says he thought he could borrow a smaller amount I 
havent seen evidence that TSB misled him about this. 
Mr Ps mortgage offer was extended as his relatives purchase was delayed due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
In early July 2020 Mr P asked TSB if he could borrow £150,000 and apply for a better rate. 
He provided a copy of an email from an adviser at TSB which said hed need to make a new 
application which would require a new valuation, conveyancing and review of his repayment 
strategy (which the adviser said didnt appear to meet TSBs criteria). The adviser said a 
new application could take three to four months due to delays caused by the pandemic. She 
said if Mr P didnt need all of the funds he could continue with the mortgage offer he had and 
repay £16,800 immediately without any penalty. 
Mr P says interest rates had fallen and he could have secured a better rate if hed made a 
new application. From early July 2020 TSB offered a five-year fixed interest rate product of 
1.44% (with a £995 product fee). This was a better rate than the 1.59% five-year fixed 
interest rate product available when Mr P applied in late 2019. 
I dont know if the adviser was right to say that new applications at that time could take three 
to four months. I asked TSB but it didnt confirm one way or another  it only said that there 
were delays which meant it couldnt guarantee a quick turnaround. Mr P says he knows of 
people that had mortgage applications approved in approximately three weeks. However, 
many lenders and borrowers were experiencing delays at that time. Mr P wanted the funds 
in early August  only a month away. I think TSB was right to warn him there could be delays 
with a new application.
Mr P says TSB told him hed only save about £4 per month if he did re-apply. I havent seen 
evidence that TSB told him this, although Mr P did say in an email to the mortgage adviser 
this was part of the reason he didnt make a new application. But I think the main reason 
Mr P didnt go ahead with a new application was the risk of not being ready to complete by 
early August. 
Mr Ps mortgage offer included free legals. That is, TSB instructed solicitors to act on its 
behalf and paid the costs. Mr P says he told the solicitors he wanted the funds on 7 August. 
He didnt receive the funds until 12 August 2020.
I dont think TSB made an error in transferring funds on the completion date. It acted on the 
information it was given  that the mortgage should complete on 7 August. It transferred the 
money to the solicitors on 7 August. 
Mr P says TSB is responsible for any errors made by the solicitors, as it appointed them. But 
the solicitors arent part of TSB. Theyre a separate business with a different regulator. I cant 
look into the actions of the solicitor. But I can consider whether TSB acted fairly.
I havent seen anything to suggest it was unreasonable for TSB to appoint the firm of 
solicitors  for instance that it didnt have relevant expertise. Or that TSB had any reason to 
think that thered be a problem with the transfer of funds at completion. Mr P says he 
contacted TSB on 10 August, as he hadnt received the funds and had to chase it before 
TSB contacted the solicitors on his behalf on 12 August. I understand this was frustrating, 
but TSB hadnt itself made an error  it had already transferred the money to the solicitors. 
And Mr P could have contacted the solicitors directly. 
One of Mr Ps calls to TSB was cut off. TSB offered £50 for the upset this caused. I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive seen correspondence saying that the solicitors transferred the money by CHAPS on 12 
August and refunded the CHAPS fee and interest for the five days between completion and 
Mr P receiving the funds. This was intended to ensure Mr P didnt have any financial loss 
due to the funds arriving five days later than hed expected. Mr P says he requested the 
funds a few weeks before needing them, and asks that the interest he paid prior to using the 
funds is refunded. I dont think that would be fair and reasonable as TSB sent the funds on 
the date requested. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require TSB to refund a months 
interest, change the interest rate on Mr Ps mortgage or pay further compensation.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman