DRN-2688925
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (trading as LV) has 
rejected his motor insurance claim for the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen from his driveway on 17 August 2019. He called the police that day 
and then contacted LV on 19 August 2019 to make a claim on his car insurance policy. Mr G 
provided CCTV footage which showed him parking his car and, later on, the theft.
LV accepted the car had been stolen but it declined the claim as it said Mr G didnt lock the
car which is a requirement under the policy.
LV said in an email to Mr G that, in his initial call, he said hed locked the car when he got
out and left it; and he later said hed returned to the car to lock it after letting his family into
the house. Mr G responded to clarify what had happened: that hed left the car and, while his
family were leaving it, hed unlocked his property. Then, before entering the house, hed
locked the car.
LV also said that when the car is locked, all of the lights, including the indicator lights on the
wing mirrors would flash and the wing mirrors would move inwards. It had checked with the
car manufacturer which had confirmed this was a standard feature of the car. But, having
reviewed the footage, LV said this didnt happen  which it said is confirmation the car was 
left unlocked.
Mr G provided an email sent by the car dealership. This email says that there are scenarios 
where the mirrors dont fold when the car is locked. This is said to happen when the mirrors
are pushed in manually and relates to preventing damage should the car be hit by a passing
vehicle. The email also says that the mirrors wont fold again on locking unless theyve been
reset.
Mr G also said that there are some time lapses in the footage he provided which must have 
covered the time the car was locked, so flashing lights werent recorded. The freeze in 
footage is from 18:10:03 to 18:10:08  a total of five seconds, which came shortly after 
Mr G pulled into his drive, which was at around 18:09.
The video footage from just before the time of the theft showed some lights flashing. Mr G 
said the lights couldve been the car lights flashing, to indicate it was being unlocked, 
whereas LV thinks the lights are coming from a security light at the property. These lights 
can be seen flashing towards the rear corner of the car from 20:56:39 to 20:56:42  a total 
of three seconds. The theft took place at around 20:59.
LV says the thieves entered the car as soon as they walked up to it, by simply pulling the 
handle, saying this proves it was unlocked. But Mr G pointed out that a car passed his 
property twice in the lead up to the theft and also said that the thieves clearly tampered 
with the car when they entered it. LV recognises that the thieves worked on the car, once 
inside, and managed to start it within 30 seconds of entering. But LV believes this car was 
targeted as it was clearly unlocked.
Mr G believes the car was clearly stolen by professional thieves and thinks its likely they 
have specialist devices to gain access to locked cars, so doesnt think he should be held 
responsible for the theft. He also said that hes provided LV with the video footage and any 
information he could to assist with the claim and feels as though hes being scrutinised. 
Hed like LV to accept that the theft wasnt his fault and offer a settlement for the stolen 
vehicle.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She ultimately felt that it should be upheld as 
she said the onus is on LV to prove that the exclusion applies. She noted that continuous 
footage wasnt available so theres the possibility the car was unlocked at an earlier time, 
and also felt that the flashing lights just prior to the theft couldve been from Mr Gs car. So 
she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to decline the claim.
LV disagreed. It believes its provided enough to show the car was left unlocked. It 
reiterated some of its earlier points but noted, in particular, that Mr G had never stated that 
hed manually pushed in the wing mirrors on his car and it questioned the likelihood of the 
car being locked at the precise time of the five-second gap in footage. It also noted that the 
car was a connected vehicle so the manufacturers customer care department may be 
able to confirm if the car was locked or unlocked at the time of the incident. It said it isnt 
able to obtain this information itself due to data protection laws (UK GDPR) but would 
review the claim again if Mr G provided this information.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021. In this, I said:
Before I explain my provisional decision, Id like to say that I think Mr G has been extremely
unlucky here. I have no reason to doubt that hes been the victim of a theft  and Im sorry
that he now stands to lose such a large amount of money. I really do empathise with him and
I recognise that hes done what he could to support LV in its investigations, by providing his
CCTV footage to demonstrate the loss. But the question I have to ask myself here is whether
LV has acted fairly, reasonably and lawfully in declining this claim.
The starting position of any claim is for the insured to prove that theres been a loss. And its 
clear, and hasnt been disputed, that there has been. Turning next to the terms and
conditions of the policy, these say that LV wont pay for loss or damage to a car by theft if
the car has been left unlocked. And, given this is the exclusion LV is relying on, the onus is
on it to prove the car was left unlocked. LV and Mr G disagree on this point  so its my role
to decide this, using the evidence provided. And Im minded to conclude that the car was left
unlocked.
Having reviewed the footage, I can see that the wing mirrors dont fold in during the relevant
period. And it would appear to me that the lights on the car dont flash around the time Mr G
says he wouldve locked the car, nor can I see that they flash just prior to the car being
stolen.Addressing the wing mirrors first, both parties have provided different information about
whether the wing mirrors fold in on locking. It seems, from the evidence provided, that the
default for this car is for the wing mirrors to fold in when locked. But, as shown by Mr Gs
email from the dealership, its possible for the car to lock without the wing mirrors folding. But
this is only where theyve manually been folded in  and Mr G hasnt, at any point, made any
suggestion that this is something hed done.
I turn next to the matter of the lights. Mr G said the CCTV footage has come from a basic,
home-installed camera for which he cant guarantee continuity, timing or accuracy of the
information provided. But it appears to me that, other than the gaps referred to in the
background, continuous footage at the pertinent times has been provided. Given the timings
involved, there is a chance that when Mr G got out the car, he locked it and the lights flashed
during the five second gap in footage  but I do think it would be quite coincidental for this to
happen precisely within that gap. And that would still leave the issue of the wing mirrors not
folding in, which wouldve happened at the same time as the lights flashing. Ive seen
images of the car, just after the gap in footage, with the wing mirrors still out.
In terms of the car later being unlocked by the thieves, again it sounds as though all of the 
car lights should flash. While the footage contains some evidence of lights flashing, it 
seems to me that the lights in the footage are a reflection on the car of the security light of 
a nearby property. I do think, however, that in terms of the car being unlocked prior to the 
theft, wed need footage spanning the time of the car being parked right up until it was 
stolen to be confident about whether or not lights flashed. I say this because it couldve 
been unlocked some time ahead of the theft. But that doesnt detract from the matter of the 
wing mirrors that didnt fold or the lights that didnt flash as they shouldve done upon 
locking. So I dont think the lack of continuous footage is enough to say that the car was 
likely to have been locked.
Mr G raised a point around how the thieves may have been able to gain access to the car 
with specialist equipment, such as that which appears to have been used once theyd 
accessed the car. While that could be a possibility, the exclusion here is specifically 
around whether the car was already unlocked. And the evidence suggests that it was.
I note in LVs letter to Mr Gs solicitor of 18 December 2019, it said that the car is a 
connected vehicle. It was in fact the cars tracking device that led to Mr G being notified of 
his stolen car. Because of this, LV suggested contacting the customer care department to 
find out whether it could give confirmation around whether the car was locked or unlocked 
at the time of the incident. It said it couldnt obtain this directly due to GDPR but said that if 
Mr G could obtain the information it would review the claim again.
As Mr G didnt provide me with this evidence, I tried to obtain this information myself. But, 
due to the passage of time, its no longer available. I think that it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr G to obtain this information, especially once LV had said it wouldnt be 
able to  and this couldve definitively answered this question for us. And, while the onus 
is on the insurer to prove the exclusion applies, I think it provided a viable way forward. 
Mr G, via his representatives at that time, seemingly chose not to progress with this and, 
while I dont know the precise retention period of this information, its jeopardised the 
investigation by not attempting to obtain this.Mr G said hed provided the CCTV footage to LV as a goodwill gesture to assist with the 
claim  it wasnt intended to be used as evidence against him. And he maintains that he 
wouldnt have left a car of this value unlocked. I do appreciate Mr Gs stance here, and it is 
unfortunate that the footage hes provided has supported the decision to decline the claim. 
But I note that with any insurance claim, the insured first has to prove that an insured event 
has occurred. So, in this case, Mr G was required to prove that his car was stolen  which 
the footage has done. The policy terms and conditions also require Mr G to co-operate with 
LV and provide details of the claim to help to validate and process it. So, given that Mr G 
had footage of the theft and the hours leading up to it, he was required to provide this, even 
if he does now feel that its been used against him.
LV believe Mr Gs car was stolen by professional thieves, but that it was targeted 
specifically as it was clearly unlocked. And I believe this was likely the case. So, Im 
minded to conclude that it wouldnt be fair to ask LV to reconsider this claim when it seems 
substantially more likely than not that this car was left unlocked. And I think its significant 
that Mr G hasnt taken the opportunity suggested to him to prove otherwise via the 
manufacturers records, which I understand would have shown whether or not it was 
properly secured.
It seems likely that not locking the car would have materially contributed to this loss by 
advertising its vulnerability to professional thieves (due to the unfolded mirrors) and/or by 
making it easier to access without detection  so its not unfair for LV to rely on the 
exclusion. This is a standard type of exclusion, not a significant or unusual one; and 
theres no indication that it wasnt clearly set out in the policy or highlighted at the point of 
sale.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G responded with some further comments and evidence:
He provided evidence that he had, in fact, contacted the manufacturers customer 
care department to try to obtain proof around whether hed locked the car. But it had 
explained that this information wasnt available and could only have been viewed in 
real time provided by GPS information submitted at that time. 
He doesnt believe its fair for the video footage hes provided to be used as evidence 
on which to base the decision around whether the car was locked, given that its 
incomplete and skips five seconds. 
He said he wasnt asked about the folding mirrors when the claim was reported. But 
when this question was later raised, he obtained proof from the car dealership that 
there are circumstances where the wing mirrors wouldnt close. Though he doesnt 
recall manually folding the wing mirrors himself, he said this couldve happened at a 
car wash or when the car went to the garage for a check a few months priors to the 
theft. He said he didnt pay attention to this point because he hadnt realised it was 
important.
He said there arent any security lights at his property or his neighbours property. 
He said he doesnt know how or at what time thieves managed to open the car, given 
that it was parked outside his house for almost three hours before it was stolen.
He doesnt believe theres sufficient evidence to decline the claim
LV had nothing further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr G has put forward, I havent found cause to reach a 
different outcome than I previously reached. Ill explain why.
Given the evidence Mr G has provided in relation to trying to obtain proof that hed locked 
the car, I now accept that he did his best to assist in the investigation of the claim and did all 
he reasonably could to support his version of events. It could be argued that Mr G wouldnt 
have requested this information from the customer care department if he had any doubt that 
hed locked the car (in case it proved otherwise). But at the point of asking for this, LV had 
already declined the claim on the basis of the car being left unlocked. So, if it was found that 
Mr G hadnt locked the car, he may have found some peace in knowing that his claim was 
fairly declined. And, alternatively, if he had in fact locked the car, his claim wouldve been 
reconsidered. So there was nothing to lose by asking for this information. But, as we now 
know, this information couldnt be obtained so it doesnt impact my decision one way or 
another.
Mr G doesnt think his video footage should be relied upon. But my stance on this hasnt 
changed since my provisional decision, which I think covers this point sufficiently. Similarly, 
Mr G said there arent any security lights at his or his neighbours property  but my view 
also hasnt changed as a result. The light reflects on the roof of the car and, looking at the 
footage, I cant see how this could physically be a reflection from his own car lights. There is 
no independent forensic evidence to rebut what I think is a reasonable assumption based on 
direct observation and common sense. 
Mr G has said he didnt realise the significance of the wing mirrors in relation to the theft of 
his car which is why he didnt reference this previously. I can accept that to some degree; he 
may not initially have realised its importance. And, when it became clear that it was relevant, 
he sourced information from the dealership to show circumstances where the wing mirrors 
wouldnt close automatically on locking. But I suspect Mr G wouldve noticed a change in his 
car if the wing mirrors used to close upon locking  which I understand to be the default 
setting of this car  and then stopped. And, even if he didnt, this doesnt explain the 
absence of flashing lights when the car was allegedly locked. 
Mr G said he doesnt know how or at what time the thieves managed to open the car. I 
accept that there isnt footage for the full period of around three hours. But Im persuaded 
that theres sufficient evidence the car wasnt locked. So I think it would be unfair, in the 
circumstances of this particular case and with the evidence I have available, to ask LV to 
reconsider the claim simply because the entire period from parking the car to the theft isnt 
available. Ive seen nothing from the footage at the time of parking up to suggest that the car 
was locked  there was no visible change in the car, in terms of lights or mirrors; I havent 
been given persuasive testimony about the manual changing of the wing mirrors, and I think 
it would be implausibly coincidental for the pause in footage to be at the precise time the car 
was locked. Quite simply, the odds are significantly stacked against that  and we have to 
make factual findings based on the balance of probabilities, i.e. whats more likely than not. I 
also have to question why, if cars could be unlocked by thieves with a special device, theyd 
need to target one that appeared to be unlocked due to unfolded mirrors. I can appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr G. Though I find it substantially more 
likely than not the car was left unlocked, Im still very sorry that hes been the victim of theft. 
Insurers recognise that its significantly easier to steal a car thats left unlocked and thats 
precisely why this exclusion is widely included in car insurance policies  its a risk that most 
insurers simply wouldnt be willing to take. Feeling empathetic towards Mr Gs situation 
doesnt mean that LV has been wrong to decline on the basis of this standard policy term 
(which is expressly highlighted at the point of sale to help policyholders comply). And I dont 
think its acted unfairly, unreasonably or unlawfully in declining this claim. So I wont be 
asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this claim against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (trading as LV).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman