DRN-4451071
The complaint
Mrs P complains about advice received from National Westminster Bank Plc when taking out 
a critical illness policy.
Mrs P is using a representative to bring her complaint. For ease I will refer to all action as 
being those of Mrs P.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs P that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided. 
Its agreed by all parties involved that the advice Mrs P received wasnt suitable. And I know 
parts of this matter have been dealt with in a different decision against another involved 
business. 
Our Investigator provided some background to this complaint which I think fairly covers what 
happened. So I wont look any further into what happened, instead Ill concentrate on the 
offer to put things right. 
NatWest looked into the complaint and offered to pay towards the legal fees Mrs P had 
incurred when dealing with the issue about how the policy was set up. They also made an 
offer of £1,000 for the trouble and upset of what happened.
When our Investigator considered the complaint they thought NatWest should also refund 
the premiums paid by Mrs P from the inception of the policy up until administration was 
transferred to another business, with an allowance made for any money NatWest had 
already paid to cover some legal fees. 
NatWest agreed with the proposal from our Investigator, however Mrs P disagreed saying it 
doesnt fully put things right.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the proposal is a fair and 
reasonable way of putting things right. 
Mrs P has said that had she known the situation about how the policy had been set up she 
wouldnt have taken it. And this might be the case. But I must also consider that I dont think 
the policy itself was unsuitable, its the way it was set up that wasnt right. So had the policy 
been set up correctly then Mrs P would most likely have paid the premiums to NatWest for 
the time they administered the policy. The policy has now been cancelled so its not possible 
to recreate the set up how it shouldve been done. 
Ive also taken into account that the policy was in force while the premiums were paid so it 
provided cover for Mrs P. Due to how the policy was set up the cover might have been less 
valuable had a claim been made, but thankfully no claim was made. 
Mrs P also mentioned things that happened, or wouldve happened, at the time after 
NatWest stopped administering the policy. These issues have been dealt with in the other 
decision against a different business so I wont comment on them here. 
Its clear what happened caused Mrs P a substantial level of trouble and upset over a 
sustained period of time. Thinking about the inconvenience and the time it has taken Im 
satisfied £1,000 is a fair and reasonable offer. 
For the time that NatWest administered the policy I think the below is a fair and reasonable 
way of putting things right. 
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should refund the premiums paid on the policy from inception 
up until the administration was passed to another business. 
Against this amount National Westminster Bank Plc may offset the amount it says was paid 
to Mrs P and her solicitor for the provision of legal advice.
National Westminster Bank Plc should also pay Mrs P £1,000 for the trouble and upset 
caused by what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right National Westminster Bank Plc should take the actions Ive outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman