DRN-3751017
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about an endowment policy he held with Phoenix Life Limited. He doesnt 
believe the compensation he has been offered for having been repeatedly told that he 
couldnt complete a partial surrender of the policy is enough.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage endowment policy in 1986 over a term of 20 years. The term was 
twice extended by ten years to a total of 40 years. 
The policy terms and conditions include a Cash and Carry-On Option. This allowed, within 
certain limits, for a policyholder to withdraw money from the policy. The option states that the 
outstanding term to maturity at the date the option is exercised had to be at least ten years. 
In 2019, 2020 and 2021 Mr S contacted Phoenix enquiring about making a partial surrender. 
He was told on each occasion that the policy terms didnt allow this. In 2021 he complained. 
Phoenix then realised that the policy was segmented and it informed Mr S that he could 
surrender some of the segments. He did so, but unfortunately there were some issues with 
the process, and it took longer than it should have.
Phoenix responded to the complaint in its letter of 1 December 2021. It explained that there 
was an option to complete a partial surrender contained within the policy terms and 
conditions, but that option ceased to be available once the policy was within ten years of the 
maturity date. However, as the policy was segmented, Phoenix allowed the total surrender of 
some of the segments. Unfortunately, when Mr S asked to do so, there were some issues 
with that process. As such, Phoenix offered Mr S late payment interest on the surrender 
value and £250 of the inconvenience he had been caused. Phoenix later increased the 
inconvenience payment to £400. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the compensation offered and asked us to look into his complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint. She explained that while Mr S had said 
he had asked for a partial surrender numerous times since 2009, the information available to 
us didnt indicate that he had made such a request until February 2020 and the next time he 
enquired about doing so was in September 2021. On both occasions he had been told that 
he couldnt do so. This wasnt wrong, but Phoenix had confirmed that as the policy was 
segmented, he should have been offered the option of surrendering some of the segments. 
She considered that the £400 Phoenix had offered for the inconvenience it had caused Mr S 
was enough.
Mr S provided further documentation showing that he had asked about partially surrendering 
the policy in 2019, 2020 and 2021. He maintained that he had also asked about doing so in 
2009, although he didnt provide any supporting documentation for that enquiry.
The investigator considered the further information and acknowledged that Mr S had asked 
about partially surrendering the policy in 2019. However, she remained satisfied that the 
£400 offered for the inconvenience was sufficient. She explained that while Mr S had said 
hed wanted the money for specific purposes, he hadnt provided any evidence of the impact 
of not having been able to withdraw the money.
Mr S remained unhappy with the amount of compensation offered. He reiterated his previous 
comments about what had happened and said that the £400 didnt take into account the 
amount of funds he had requested to fulfil his and his familys needs. He also said that not 
having been able to access the money he wanted and having been lied to had caused him 
grief, stress and anxiety over a two-and-a-half-year period. He said that his main grievance 
was about the lies Phoenix told him when it couldnt be bothered to check the policy terms 
and conditions. Mr S asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S has said that he initially contacted Phoenix to complete a partial surrender in 
2009. I have reviewed the record of the telephone call from that time and the response that 
Mr S was sent. I am satisfied that the subject of the discussions at that time was not a partial 
surrender. 
Mr S has said that his main grievance is that Phoenix didnt check the policy terms and 
conditions when it told him a partial surrender wasnt possible. As Phoenix explained in its 
final response letter, the terms and conditions for the policy dont allow a partial surrender 
within the last ten years of the term of the policy. That means that the last time a partial 
surrender was allowed under the policy terms was before the policy anniversary in 2006. So 
it was not a case of Phoenix not having bothered to looked at the policy terms and conditions 
when it said what it did  its response was based on the terms and conditions of the policy. 
However, Phoenix allows segmented policies to have whole segments surrendered whether 
it is allowed under the original terms and conditions or not. It was in not explaining and 
offering this concession that Phoenix failed Mr S. 
Mr S has said that not being able to take money out of the policy at the different times he 
asked inconvenienced him and his family, and in the case of the 2019 request, meant that 
there was a delay in him receiving medical treatment. He was invited to provide evidence of 
the impact and delays, so that it could be factored into our consideration of the 
compensation. He hasnt done so. As such, I am satisfied that the £400 Phoenix offered for 
this error and the inconvenience it caused is sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already offered to pay £400 to settle the complaint and I think that 
offer fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay 
Mr S £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman