DRN-3703634
The complaint
Miss A complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) rejected a claim 
she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A had a car insurance policy with AA. Unfortunately, in December 2021 Miss As car 
was stolen. The car was later recovered by the police but had been damaged and required 
repair. 
Miss A raised a claim with AA and explained that her car was parked in front of her home 
address the morning of the theft. She was defrosting it, with the keys in the ignition, when it 
was stolen. She explained that at the time it was stolen, shed turned around and moved 
away from the car to the front door of her house to tell her daughter it was time to leave. 
And it was at this point someone entered the car and drove off. Miss A said she didnt hear 
anyone enter her car but realised what was happening when she turned around and saw the 
reflection of her car brake lights. 
AA said it wouldnt cover the claim as her keys were in the ignition. It highlighted Section 2 of 
the policy which states the following Is not covered:
(l) Loss of/or damage to the Insured Car arising from Theft when the ignition keys, lock 
transmitter or entry card for a keyless entry system are left in or on the Insured Car whilst it 
is unattended.
Miss A didnt think this was fair and so she complained. She said she couldnt intervene to 
prevent the theft due to her physical disability. 
AA didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it had carefully considered the circumstances of 
the theft and felt the car was left unattended. It said the car was located on a main road with 
a gate and a fence separating Miss A from the car. It also said Miss A wasnt close enough 
to get a hand on to or inside the car door before it was driven away. So, it was of the view 
the car was left unattended, albeit it recognised this was only for a short time. 
Miss A didnt agree and brought her concerns to our Service. She thought AA hadnt 
properly considered her disability and the circumstances under which the car was taken. 
Miss A was later asked to provide more detail about her disability and how this impacted the 
circumstances of the theft and her complaint. She told our Service that she had mobility 
issues caused by a number of medical conditions and that shed placed her walking stick in 
the boot of the car that morning before it was stolen. She said she cannot walk fast. 
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They said the vehicle was 
unattended and so AA was within its rights to decline the claim under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Whilst Miss A disagreed, explaining her physical disability prevented 
her from intervening, our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their findings. They said 
Miss A wouldnt have been expected to physically intervene, particularly not with her 
physical disability. But that she had left the vehicle unattended, so it remained fair for AA to 
decline the claim. They noted Miss A didnt see or hear the thief get into the vehicle from her 
position.
Miss A didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the terms and conditions of the policy, AA could fairly decline the claim if the 
vehicle was left unattended, given that the keys were in the ignition. So, for me the main 
issue in this complaint is whether the car can be fairly said to have been left unattended.
Miss A had also stressed that her disability needs to be taken into account when considering 
this. And Id agree that the particular circumstances of the theft must be considered, 
including Miss As disability. 
However, there is no evidence that the application of the exclusion has been impacted by 
Miss As disability. The exclusion has been applied because Miss As keys were in the 
ignition and she walked away from the car, neither of which were linked to her disability. 
I say this as Miss As testimony is that she left the keys in the ignition as she was defrosting 
the car and she then walked to the door of her house to warn her daughter it was time to 
leave.
AA observed that Miss A wasnt close enough to intervene, and I can see why she was 
concerned by this given her mobility issues. I recognise that Miss As ability to intervene in 
the theft, even if she were to have realised it was happening sooner, would have been 
limited/prevented by her disability. But I dont think this is of relevance to my assessment of 
this complaint because Im satisfied AA hasnt suggested Miss A ought to have intervened. 
Instead, AA made this point to try to illustrate why it was of the view the vehicle was 
unattended - which is what is required for AA to fairly decline the claim under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Unattended isnt defined within the policy. So, Ive considered Miss As distance from, and 
awareness of, her vehicle when deciding if AAs decision was fair. Miss A was at her house 
door and her car was parked on the street directly outside, with the drivers door on the far 
side of the car. Between Miss A and her car was the width of the pavement, her gate and her 
front garden path which was around three metres long. Given this, I do think there was a 
substantial distance between Miss A and her car, particularly the drivers side of the vehicle. 
Id also note that at the time of the theft Miss A didnt have sight of the car and was not close 
enough to hear the thief enter the car. And all of these factors suggest to me that it was fair 
for AA to conclude Miss As car wasnt attended.
Whilst I appreciate the reason why Miss A left her car (she didnt want to disturb her 
neighbours by shouting to her daughter from the street) Im satisfied AA can fairly say she 
did leave it unattended for a time. Given this, I think it had the right to decline Miss As claim, 
which means I dont think it acted unreasonably in the circumstances. 
I was really sorry to read about the impact that this theft has had on Miss A. Im conscious 
that this was particularly significant in light of her mobility issues. I also dont doubt her 
testimony that she thought there was no one on the street and that it was necessary to 
defrost her car that morning. That being said, I could only ask AA to do something differently 
if I thought it had acted unfairly. And for the reasons outlined above, I dont think it has.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman