DRN-4473664
The complaint
Miss W is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn).  She says they 
shouldnt have lent to her as the loan was unaffordable. Miss Ms complaint was brought to 
our service by a representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In November 2020, Miss W took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn to finance 
the purchase of a car. She paid no deposit and borrowed £6,999, the cash price of the 
vehicle. The agreement required her to make 47 monthly repayments of £273.93. She 
missed her January 2021 payment and made it late but all other payments were on time. 
Then, in September 2022, Miss W replaced this conditional loan agreement with a new one. 
On this occasion, Miss W paid no deposit and borrowed £8,995, the cash price of the 
vehicle. The agreement required her to make 47 monthly repayments of £266.64. In 
February and April 2023, Miss Ws direct debits bounced but she made the payments by 
card instead and the account remained on track.
In November 2022, Miss W complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to her 
because the loans were unaffordable. She said shed had several missed or late payments 
in the three months before Moneybarn first lent to her, and then further late payments 
between the two lending decisions. She said she had a large number of credit accounts, 
reflecting her dependence on borrowing..
In their response, Moneybarn said that for the second loan theyd conducted a full credit 
search and also verified Miss Ws monthly income using a current account analysis done by 
a Credit Reference Agency (CRA). Moneybarn added that they used data from the Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) to estimate Miss Ws level of non-discretionary expenditure. They 
added that theyd considered the payment history and conduct of Miss Ws previous loan. 
Overall they were satisfied theyd done enough checks and the agreement was affordable 
for Miss W. Moneybarn didnt explain in their response to Miss W what checks theyd done in 
relation to the first loan.
Miss W remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service. At this stage Moneybarn 
told us theyd carried out the same checks before making the first loan. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it, saying she thought Moneybarn 
had completed proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision based on the 
information available.
Miss W disagreed, saying she wasnt managing her credit commitments before taking out 
the first loan. She asked for a decision and the complaint came to me. I issued a provisional 
decision on 26 October 2023. In that I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
In relation to both loans, Moneybarn said they: 
Checked Miss Ws credit file;
Used CRA data to verify her income; and
Used ONS data to estimate her disposable income.
When it came to the second loan, Moneybarn said they also looked at Miss Ws payment 
history for the first loan.
Loan 1
Moneybarn havent provided a copy of the credit file they looked at. Theyve told us they 
could see Miss W had total active credit balances of around £6,000. They said she had 
four outstanding defaults, with the most recent being in the last five months. But her 
default balance had reduced from £2,000 to £400. They used this information to 
determine that Miss W needed to spend £125 per month on credit commitments.
Looking at Miss Ws copy of her credit file I can see similar figures to those given by 
Moneybarn  she had total active balances of around £8,670 but this included car finance 
of £2,672 which Miss W settled when she took out the Moneybarn agreement. There are 
only three defaults on the file, suggesting that the other one Moneybarn noted was from 
before November 2016. But the most recent default was in July 2020, just four months 
before Moneybarn decided to lend to Miss W. Its also clear from the credit file that Miss 
W used short term loans on several occasions, including in early 2020. And I can see she 
missed some payments in 2020, including four monthly payments of £150.
Miss W had told Moneybarn she was living with her parents, so they didnt include any 
housing expenditure when conducting an income and expenditure assessment. Overall 
this assessment suggested Miss W would have disposable income of nearly £700 (from 
monthly income of around £1,285). But the total amount of credit, and the recent defaults 
and missed payments suggest that might not be the case  theyre indicators that 
someone might be in financial difficulties. Im inclined to say these indicators mean that 
Moneybarn should have carried out further checks to ensure that the repayments would 
be sustainably affordable for Miss W.
Loan 2
By September 2022, Moneybarn had almost two years of Miss Ws payment history to 
include in their assessment. The monthly repayments under the second loan were less 
than were required under the first loan, and Miss W had only missed one payments under 
the first loan, and appears to have made up the shortfall promptly. In addition, Miss Ws 
stated salary had increased to £1,336 since their first assessment, and her living 
circumstances dont appear to have changed  Moneybarn again noted that Miss W was 
living with her parents.
Moneybarn noted from Miss Ws credit file that she hadnt had any defaults since the last 
agreement and her outstanding default balance was now zero. But they said her total 
active credit balances had increased  to nearly £7,700. Im not sure how Moneybarn 
calculated this number. From what I can see, Miss W had credit card balances totalling 
around £850, a telecoms balance of £126, a loan with a balance of £2,500, and the existing Moneybarn loan with a balance of nearly £7,400. She also appears to have still 
had an outstanding balance on a defaulted account of £680. 
Overall, although Miss Ws credit balance had increased by the time of the second loan, 
the majority of this was down to the Moneybarn agreement. Without that, Miss W had just 
two moderate credit cards, one loan, and a telecoms loan active. There was no evidence 
of recent defaults or missed payments and shed been regularly paying Moneybarn 
around £274 per month  more than she needed to pay them under the second 
agreement. 
Moneybarn checked Miss Ws income using third party data, and used statistical data to 
estimate her expenditure. CONC allows a lender to do this unless they have reason to 
believe the statistical data wouldnt be appropriate. Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
would be the case at the time of the second lending decision. On that basis Im inclined to 
say Moneybarns checks were proportionate.
If Moneybarn had done proportionate checks in November 2020, what would they have 
found?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Miss Ws 
income and expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Ive looked at statements for Miss Ws main bank account for the three months leading up 
to her application to Moneybarn. In the absence of any other information, bank 
statements provide a good indication of Miss Ws income and expenditure at the time the 
lending decision was made.
Im not saying a business normally has to obtain bank statements during their affordability 
checks, but I think in Miss Ws case it would have been very difficult to gain an 
understanding of her expenditure without looking at the statements. So Im inclined to say 
that Moneybarn would have needed to look at her bank statements to carry out a 
proportionate affordability assessment. 
If Moneybarn had looked at Miss Ws statements, theyd have seen significant levels of 
spending on gambling. Whilst some of these transactions are clearer than others, it 
appears Miss W was spending on average around £1,000 per month, or 75% of her 
income on gambling during the three months prior to the lending decision. It seems clear 
the gambling was a significant contributor to the adverse state of Miss Ws credit file and 
on that basis Im inclined to say that if Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks 
theyd have had to decide it would be irresponsible to lend to Miss W.
Did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision in September 2022?
Moneybarn used Miss Ws monthly income figure of £1,336 and estimated her 
expenditure at around £990. That gave her around £346 of disposable income from which 
to make the repayments of £267 per month  leaving her with around £80 per month. 
However, in their income and expenditure assessment, Moneybarn only included £13 per 
month for external credit. I would expect this figure to be much higher  Miss W needed 
to make loan repayments of £247 per month for a loan taken out in August 2022. And she 
was paying her telecoms provider £7 per month as well as needing to make payments on 
her credit cards which Id estimate at around £40 per month. So instead of £13, Miss Ws 
payments for external credit would actually be around £300. On that basis the loan 
wouldnt have been affordable for Miss W. Im inclined to say Moneybarn shouldnt have 
made this loan either.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn accepted my provisional decision and Miss W said she had nothing to add - so 
my final decision is unchanged from my provisional findings.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn should have approved either loan, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreements. But Miss W has had the use of 
both vehicles  the first for 22 months, and the second for 13 months so far. I think its fair 
she pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest that was 
charged, the usage Miss W likely had of the vehicles and what her costs to stay mobile 
might have been if she hadnt entered into the agreements.
Having done so, I think its fair Miss W pays £150 for every month she had use of the first 
vehicle, and £190 for every month she had use of the second vehicle. So it would be fair and 
reasonable for Moneybarn to retain £5,770. 
To settle Miss Ws complaint, Moneybarn should do the following:
End the second agreement with nothing further to pay unless this has already been 
done. Moneybarn will be entitled to collect the vehicle.
Refund all the payments Miss W has made against both agreements, less £5,770 for 
fair usage. 
oIf Miss W has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Miss W has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Moneybarn have received the fair usage amount, they should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file regarding the agreement.
If Moneybarn consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Miss W a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Miss W can 
reclaim that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited need 
to take the steps outlined above to settle the matter. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 21 
December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman