DRN-3437406
The complaint
Mrs M complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her claim under her home 
emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs M contacted UKI to make a claim for a blocked toilet at a property that she rented. UKI 
sent a contractor who reported to them that he was unable to remove the blockage and that 
it would need a specialist machine to clear the blockage. He also reported that there was a 
leak at the property. 
UKI sent another contractor who completed a high-pressure jet wash but couldnt access the 
flowline. Also, the position of the soil stack made it difficult to access. The contractor 
believed that the blockage was caused by a build-up of scale and recommended another 
engineer attend. 
Mrs M complained to UKI as she had been told by her tenants that the contractors had 
poured acid down the pipework, which in turn damaged the pipe, causing a crack and a leak. 
So, UKI sent out another engineer who checked and tested for further leaks, found none in 
the toilets. But found a leak coming from a shower (which was unrelated) and didnt see any 
evidence of a crack in the soil pipe. So UKI later told Mrs M that her claim was closed. 
Mrs M contacted UKI and said that the toilet was fine, but she hadnt received an update on 
her complaint that the engineers had poured acid down the toilet causing damage to the 
pipe. Mrs M also provided a report from an independent engineer who confirmed that the 
damage to the pipe was caused by the acid. So, she wanted UKI to pay for the damage. 
In addition to the damage caused, Mrs M wanted UKI to compensate her tenants for their 
loss earnings due to the time that they had to take off. She also complained that UKI 
provided her with a poor level of service, as it failed to provide updates for her and on 
occasion, she had to chase them. Mrs M also said that one of the engineer caused damage 
to her toilet flushing mechanism and a stone shelf, so she sought compensation for this as 
well. 
In its final response, UKI didnt accept that the engineers poured acid down the toilet. It said 
that the waste pipe had been leaking and it had photographic evidence to support this. It did 
agree that there were failings in its service to Mrs M and offered £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs M was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered her complaint and partially upheld it. He said that there was no 
evidence to support Mrs Ms opinion that the engineers poured acid down the toilet and 
caused damage to the pipe. He agreed that there were service failings and said that the 
£150 offered as compensation was fair. He also said that UKI should pay for the damage to 
the flushing mechanism and stone shelf that were broken by the engineers. 
UKI accepted the view, Mrs M did not. She felt that the reports UKI relied upon were 
inaccurate, given that the contractors had damaged the flush mechanism and the stone 
shelf, so they mustve caused damage to the pipe. She felt that she had been told a few 
times by UKI that it would cover the cost of the external damage. And she believed that for 
the inconvenience caused to her and her tenants, UKI ought to pay compensation of more 
than £150. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will partially uphold this complaint, for much of the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs M, but I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should explain that I am unable to provide any findings regarding compensation to Mrs Ms 
tenants. This is because, the tenants were not customers of UKI. And our service is unable 
to direct UKI to pay them compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused. But I am 
able to consider the issues that Mrs M has raised in her complaint. 
Those issues for clarity, I think are that Mrs M felt that the reports from the contractors were 
inaccurate regarding the pouring of acid down the pipe. And she felt acid was poured down 
the pipe as her expert had confirmed this. As well as information from her tenants. 
Mrs M thought that the compensation of £150, offered by UKI for the inconvenience, wasnt 
enough. As she believed that UKI hadnt shown any genuine effort in her case. 
I have considered the evidence provided to me by both parties and in particular, the reports 
from the contractors who attended Mrs Ms property, as well as Mrs Ms experts report. 
Mrs M said that the contractors who UKI sent poured acid down the pipes to clear the 
blockage. She provided a report from her expert who concluded the following: on inspection 
it was found that the soil pipe was leaking from the boss connection on main soil pipe that 
was caused by acid chemicals that have super-heated drainage pipework from blockage that 
was in place. 
Mrs M has also relied on her tenants account that they had witnessed the contractors 
pouring acid down the pipes. In contrast, UKI has provided reports from each of the 
contractors who attended Mrs Ms property. Each report had provided details of what tools 
were used and what was done at each visit. In addition, UKI asked the contractors whether 
they used acid to clear the blockage. The contractors confirmed that no acid was used to 
clear the blockage. 
In cases like this, we look at what is more likely to have happened where there is a dispute 
in the evidence. I havent been provided with a testimony from any of the tenants. Also, as to 
the expert evidence that Mrs M relied upon, it provides a diagnosis of the issue but lacks any 
detail of what tests or examinations that were carried out to arrive at this conclusion. Most of 
the report then dealt with quotations for the work that Mrs M asked her expert to do. In the 
circumstances, I think that the reports from UKI provided far more detail of what was done 
on each occasion and with what tools. And for this reason, I find that it was more likely than 
not, that UKI didnt use acid to assist in the unblocking of the pipes. Mrs M felt that UKI had provided poor customer service. Not only from the breaking of her 
stone shelf and flush mechanism, to the poor level of communication and the amount it 
offered by way of compensation for the inconvenience it caused. 
Ive had a look at the report that deals with the broken stone shelf and flushing mechanism. 
It should be noted that there is no information in it that details who was responsible for the 
damage. But it does say that there was cracking seen. I note that previous images of the 
shelf didnt show any damage, so it likely that one of UKIs contractors caused the damage. 
In any event, UKI has accepted responsibility for the damage to the shelf and flusher and 
has offered to pay for its repair.  If Mrs M has already paid for the repair, then I think she 
should provide the invoice that shows this, for UKI to reimburse her costs. 
Dealing with the poor level of service, Mrs M said that one of the issues related to UKI 
having promised to repair an external pipe, as she believed that it was responsible for the 
damage. I have listened to the call recordings to see if UKI did just that. But I ve found no 
evidence to suggest that UKI accepted that it caused damage the external pipe. Although, it 
did say that it would look to assist with the external leak. Given that there is no evidence to 
suggest that UKI caused the damage, I dont think its reasonable that I direct UKI to repair 
the pipe. 
Finally, Mrs M believes that the £150 compensation offered by UKI didnt adequately 
account for all the inconvenience that was caused to her and her tenants. I have previously 
mentioned why it is that Im unable to consider any compensation for Mrs Ms tenants. So, 
Ive looked at the amount offered to Mrs M. 
UKI accepted that there were service issues, not least for delays and poor communication. I 
agree that given the issues, it was fair and reasonable for UKI to offer compensation. And I 
must also say any home emergency is going to involve a home-owner in some 
inconvenience. So, Ive considered the impact on Mrs M. 
Mrs M explains that the inconvenience she suffered had been understated but assessing the 
impact (which I find was minimal) on Mrs M and the offer of £150 compensation, I think that 
this is fair and reasonable, as it recompenses Mrs M for the errors made. So, I wont be 
asking UKI to increase it. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that UKI didnt cause damage to Mrs Ms 
pipework, nor did it promise to repair it. I do think that it should reimburse Mrs Ms costs for 
the damage caused to the stone shelf and flush. And, I think it was fair and reasonable in its 
offer of the £150, for the poor communication and delays.
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mrs M wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
UKI to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I partially uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct UK Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (if it hasnt 
already done so).
I also direct UK Insurance Limited to reimburse (on production of an invoice) Mrs Ms costs 
she incurred for the repairs to her stone shelf and flushing mechanism. UK Insurance Limited must pay the amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman