DRN-2763449
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled their claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have travel insurance as a benefit with a bank account. They booked a trip to 
Australia and New Zealand returning to the UK in March 2020. Unfortunately, their flights to 
Australia from New Zealand were cancelled, meaning they couldnt return home as planned 
 this was also impacted by the closing of the borders as a result of Covid 19. As a result, 
they had to extend their stay in New Zealand until they were able to arrange new flights 
home.
A claim was submitted to UKI for the additional costs incurred. The claim was accepted, and 
a settlement paid. But as Mr and Mrs R had received a refund in the form of points for the 
unused portion of the original flight, UKI said this needed to be deducted from the claim. A 
valuation for the points wasnt available but UKI obtained details of the cost to purchase the 
same amount of points and deducted this amount from the claim.
Whilst Mr and Mrs R agreed that a deduction should be made from the settlement in 
recognition of the refund of points they had received, they disagreed with the value UKI 
placed on the points. They said that the points value used was based on the cost to 
purchase them, but the actual value is lower when using them to purchase a new flight or 
selling them on. So, they felt that the amount deducted from the claim should be less to 
recognise this. 
Unhappy with this settlement, Mr and Mrs R complained to UKI and brought their case to this 
service. They provided quotes from websites specialising in selling points and the offers 
received were less than the amount deducted from the claim. Mr and Mrs R also supplied 
details of flight deals from the airline relating to the part purchase of flights using points 
which they say show the value to be less than what UKI had stated. 
Our investigator looked into the issue but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
She said that the policy didnt provide cover for recoverable costs and so it was right that 
UKI made a deduction for the value of the points Mr and Mrs R had received as a refund. 
She found that the quotes provided by Mr and Mrs R varied depending on the site and timing 
of the sale and therefore it was difficult to determine what the actual value would be based 
on this. And in relation to the airline deals, she noted that the value of the points differed 
depending on the number of points being used so again this didnt provide a clear valuation. 
Our investigator said it was reasonable for UKI to rely on information detailed on the airlines 
website when determining the value of the points. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with our investigators opinion and, as no agreement could be 
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. UKI has settled some of the claim - so the 
circumstances of the claim are not in dispute. But what I need to consider is whether UKI 
has acted fairly when reaching its settlement figure.
The relevant part of the travel insurance policy that Mr and Mrs R took out with UKI states 
that it doesnt cover recoverable costs, which it goes on to describe as Any costs that you 
can recover from elsewhere.
UKI has said that, as Mr and Mrs R have received a refund of the cost of the unused 
proportion of the tickets, albeit in the form of points, the cost is recoverable  and therefore 
not covered by the policy. From looking at Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms and conditions it, like 
most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market, only provides cover for irrecoverable 
costs. This is because insurance is designed to indemnify the policyholder only if they are 
unable to reclaim their losses from any other source. 
If UKI was to settle the claim for the additional flight costs in full, this would put Mr and Mrs R 
in a better position than they were in prior to the incident that caused the claim as theyd 
have the benefit of a full cash refund for the additional costs and also a refund of the unused 
portion of the original return fare  in points. I note that Mr and Mrs R dont appear to dispute 
UKI making a deduction from the settlement in recognition of the refund of points they have 
received.
But what is in dispute is the amount that UKI has deducted from the claim. UKI has said that 
its valuation is based on a calculation for purchasing points available on the airlines website. 
Mr and Mrs R say that the purchase price is a lot higher than the value they would get if they 
used the points to purchase another flight or if they sold them on. I can understand both 
points of view here and so Ive thought about this carefully. But Im not persuaded that UKI 
needs to do anything further.
Ive looked at the quotes Mr and Mrs R have provided from various selling agents websites. 
These detail the cash value on offer if they were to sell the points. The sale value does differ 
across the different quotes  and I note that one of the sites has confirmed that the rate will 
fluctuate depending on supply and demand. So, Im not persuaded that this information can 
be relied upon to provide a clear valuation for the points.
Ive also seen information that Mr and Mrs R have provided from the airline, detailing the 
cash saving on a flight when making a part payment with points. Looking at these details, the 
amount you can save on a flight differs quite substantially depending on the number of 
points you are using in part payment  meaning that it is difficult to use this information to 
obtain a clear value for the points as it varies depending on how you use them.
When looking at the information that UKI has used to calculate the value, whilst I appreciate 
that this relates to the purchase of points - as opposed to their worth when using them to 
purchase flights  this does provide a clear, set costing. And Ive also seen a recent email 
provided to Mr and Mrs R from the airline which confirms the purchase value (Im aware that 
the email detailed a slightly different amount and UKI has agreed to honour the difference). 
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling on this matter. They have gone to quite 
some lengths to provide information relating to the values of the points. And Ive also noted 
their comments about the points value when buying a flight ticket outright as opposed to 
paying in cash. However, I think all of the options provided show too much variance in the values to fairly rely on them. As the calculation for the value of the points has been obtained 
directly from the airline, as published on their website, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI 
to use this information and treat it as the most accurate means of placing a value on the 
points. Therefore, Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly when relying on this to reach the 
settlement figure.
My final decision
Whilst I know it will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R, for the reasons mentioned above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman