DRN-1689842
Complaint
Miss W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
unaffordable credit to her.                          
Background
This complaint is about an open-ended credit facility which Sunny provided to Miss W in May 
2014. Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ws complaint and thought she shouldnt have been 
provided with the facility. Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment in full. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss W, I think that Sunny 
should reasonably have seen that Miss W was unlikely to have been able to sustainably 
repay this facility. I say this because proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown that Miss W 
was already heavily indebted to a number of other short-term lenders. So I think that 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Sunny that Miss W was already 
struggling to make ends meet and manage her existing debts. And in these circumstances 
Sunny ought to have seen that Miss W was unlikely to have been able to repay any further 
credit sustainably.   
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund any extra that Miss W paid  over and above the £750 she was lent  to the 
third-party debt purchaser. To be clear, if Miss W didnt pay any more than the £750 
initially lent then no compensation will be due to her;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any extra refunded, should there be any, from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result of this 
open-ended credit facility.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman