DRN-2662217
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about the quality of the repairs carried out on her car by her motor 
insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI), after it was damaged in an accident. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January this year. An extract from that 
decision follows:
Mrs O was involved in an accident that wasnt her fault. As a result her car was damaged 
and one of the doors was dented and needed to be repaired. 
UKI arranged for one of its engineers to inspect the car. Before the engineer authorised any 
repairs, he called Mrs O and said he could offer her a cash in lieu of repairs (CIL) which she 
could use to get the repairs done herself. The other option would be to get the door repaired. 
He said he wanted to clarify which option Mrs O preferred because she had previously said 
shed hoped the car would be a total loss which wasnt the case. He also mentioned that the 
car had had a lot of previous repairs which were done by the previous owner and so the 
current repairs would be kept just to the door. Mrs O opted to have the repairs carried out as 
she said it was one less thing to do before trying to sell the car herself. 
When the car was returned to Mrs O she complained that the door was painted a different 
shade of white to the rest of the car. UKI didnt uphold the complaint and said that this is 
something that Mrs O had been warned about by the engineer but still agreed to go ahead 
with. UKI said the previous owner had the car painted a different shade of white to the 
original white paint. It added that the paint job had been poor and that there were colour 
variations which meant it couldnt match the colour of the door to the rest of the car. It said it 
wouldnt be responsible for previous poor paint jobs and so painted the door in the cars 
original colour. UKI said, however, that it would get another engineers report carried out. 
Mrs O then complained to us. She said she didnt remember agreeing to the door being 
painted a different colour to the rest of the car. She said she wanted the door to match the 
rest of the car and that she couldnt sell it in the meantime- which is what her original plan 
was. 
Our investigator initially said that UKI shouldve made a like for like repair and therefore that 
the door colour shouldve matched the rest of the car. UKI didnt agree and repeated that 
Mrs O had been warned the colours wouldnt match because of the previous poor paint jobs. 
Our investigator later changed her mind and said that UKI had done enough to repair the 
car. 
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Before 
proceeding with my decision, I went back to UKI for further information. 
UKI said that there was no question that the door was painted in the cars original colour. It 
provided a copy of its second inspection and said that the engineers notes confirm that the 
colour issue was discussed with Mrs O prior to the repairs being carried out. I asked UKI 
why it chose to paint the door the original colour instead of the colour of the rest of the car. I 
told UKI that I expected it to make sure that the door colour matched the rest of the car. I 
said if the car was originally red for example and was subsequently painted black I wouldnt 
expect UKI to paint the door the original colour (i.e. red). Despite chasing UKI we received 
no response. Our investigator wrote to UKI to confirm that the case was back with me and 
that I would be proceeding based on my understanding that the door had been painted a 
different colour to the rest of the car.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on this, I am currently considering upholding it. 
Mrs Os policy says that UKI will pay for her car to be repaired or it will carry out the repairs 
itself if its damaged. This is a very common policy term and we expect insurers to make 
sure that repairs are of a good standard- if they are carrying them out themselves. In this 
case the repairs were carried out by UKI. 
UKIs notes say that the colour the door was painted in was the cars original colour whose 
details were obtained using the cars car identification number (VIN). But UKI also said that 
the entire car had been painted a different shade of white by the previous owner. So, UKI 
accepts that the door is a different colour to the rest of the car.
UKI says it wasnt possible to match the door colour to the rest of the car because there 
were colour variations around the car. Looking at photos of the car I can see that the quality 
of the paint work done previously wasnt good and that there is evidence of overspray. But 
clearly this is something that Mrs O was already aware of and something she found 
acceptable. 
I asked UKI why it painted the door the original shade of white instead of the shade of white 
the rest of the car was in. It hasnt responded but its notes mention that it believed it 
wouldve been difficult to blend the colour because of the previous paint jobs and that if it 
had done this there would be an even bigger difference in colour. But my understanding is 
that UKI replaced the entire door. So if the door was painted afresh I dont see why UKI 
didnt paint it the same colour as the rest of the car- regardless of the previous poor paint 
jobs and the overspray. 
I, therefore, dont think its actions were fair or reasonable and so I think it should repaint the 
door so it matches the rest of the car. If UKI doesnt think it will be able to do this, it must 
provide me with evidence in support of that within the time limit I set out for it to respond to 
this decision.
UKI said that, in any event, it warned Mrs O that there would be a colour mismatch and she 
agreed to go ahead regardless. I have listened to the call in question but I didnt think Mrs O 
had been given such a warning. The engineer mentioned that the car had had numerous 
repairs done to it previously. He said this is why he wanted to check whether Mrs O wanted 
a CIL instead of the repairs. And he noted Mrs O was hoping it was a total loss as shed had 
a lot of issues with it. He also said the repairs would only be done on the door and not to the 
rest of the car. 
UKI says that in this conversation the engineer also said that there were colour variations 
around that car and that this was why the repairs were confined to the door. I have listened to the recording a number of times and I couldnt hear the engineer clearly warning that the 
colour wouldnt match the rest of the car or that there was a risk of that happening. I could 
hear him saying that the repairs would be confined to the door though.
Based on this I dont think that UKI did enough to warn Mrs O that the door colour wouldnt 
match the rest of the car. Even if the engineer had mentioned colour variations I think he 
shouldve gone further and explained that this would mean that there would be a colour 
mismatch. And I also dont think the engineer mentioned at any point that the door would be 
painted in the cars original colour, which was different, instead of in the shade of white that 
the car was currently in. On balance, if he had clearly explained this to Mrs O I think she 
wouldve opted for the CIL. I say this because Mrs O said she has since checked with other 
garages who said that they wouldve been able to do a better job at matching the colour of 
the door to the rest of the car if shed gone to them. This is something she wouldve been 
able to do with her CIL payment. 
Mrs O has consistently said that her plan was to get her car repaired so that she could sell it. 
She said she has not been able to do this because of the issue with the door. I think this 
must have caused her a certain amount of distress and inconvenience. And I think this could 
have been avoided had UKI done more to match the colours and not painted the door in a 
different colour or, alternatively, explained the possibility of a colour mismatch to Mrs O in 
advance so she could make an informed decision.  I think it should pay her £250 
compensation to address this. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, Im currently considering upholding this complaint and asking UK 
Insurance Limited to repaint Mrs Os car door so that it matches the rest of her car and if that 
is not possible to pay her the cash in lieu settlement it had previously offered. It should also 
pay her £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O accepted my provisional decision.
 
UKI responded with the following comments:
It said it wasnt clear where my understanding that the car was painted a different white 
from the manufacturer car came from. It said its not its understanding that this is what 
caused the car to be several shades of white across multiple panels.
The car was white and this is what UKI applied. And this matched the colour the 
manufacturer applied. 
It shouldnt be held accountable for all the different shades of white that do not match the 
manufacturer shade. 
There were multiple paint jobs on the car and its position is that each paint job was 
carried out in a different variant of the original colour of the car which lead to multiple 
colours; typically across two or three adjoining panels. 
The reason its engineer contained the repair to the door was because the panels 
adjoining the replaced panel were next to panels that were different shades. So if it 
matched the new door to the front door, for example, the two doors would match but the 
rear wing and front wing would be different shades. It is not clear how it could meet Mrs Os expectation bearing in mind that I said that 
Mrs O finds other colour mismatches acceptable. It said its not clear why those other 
mis-matches are acceptable but its mis-match isnt. 
I responded to UKI and said the following:
When Mrs O referred her complaint to us she said she didnt know that her car wasnt in its 
original white colour when she bought it. To me this suggested that the previous owner had 
painted the car a different shade of white to the one applied by the manufacturer. 
UKI says this wasnt the case. It says that the car had had a number of repairs done to it and 
that a different shade of white had been applied each time which led to the colour mismatch. 
From this I understood that it meant that its not that the previous owner changed the colour 
of the car altogether but that after each repair a different shade of white was applied. So 
when UKI repaired the door it painted it in the original- manufacturers colour and didnt try to 
match it to the other shades of white.
 
Even if I were to accept the above, I still dont think UKI dealt with the claim fairly and 
reasonably. UKI says it was impossible to match the door to the rest of the car or to meet 
Mrs Os expectations. As I said in my provisional decision I thought the engineer should 
have done a better job at explaining to Mrs O that UKI couldnt match the colour of the door 
to the rest of the car and that this would result in the door appearing to be a lighter shade of 
white to the rest of the car- which is what Mrs O says happened. I note the engineer said the 
repairs would only be to the door but I think if he had warned Mrs O that, because of the 
previous poor paintwork, the colour wouldnt be blended and could not match the rest of the 
car I think she wouldve opted for the CIL. UKI says the engineer mentioned that there were 
colour variations when he spoke to Mrs O but as I said in my provisional decision, even if 
that was the case I think he should have gone further and explained to Mrs O what this 
would mean and to check that she was still happy to proceed. 
For these reasons I said I thought UKI should now pay her the CIL. I noted that UKI had 
replaced the door and had also repainted it- so its outlay also included the cost of a new 
door. I said I thought the compensation it pays Mrs O should only include what it paid 
towards the paintwork including labour and VAT. I said I thought if it were to include the cost 
of the new door in its payment to Mrs O this would put her in a better position than the one 
she was in before she made her claim. 
We also informed Mrs O of UKIs comments and said that I would be asking it to pay the CIL 
less any cost relating to the replacement of the door. Mrs O hasnt provided any further 
comments. 
UKI responded and asked how Mrs O was put in a worse position after it repainted her door, 
when in fact the car was already painted in multiple colours. Its engineers also commented 
and said that from the photographs taken of the car after it was repaired it can be seen that 
the colour match is out on other parts of the car. It said this is why Mrs O had been offered a 
CIL but she declined. It said it had fully informed Mrs O that colour would be an issue but 
she still chose to go down that route. It added that it couldnt see how it was responsible for 
the colour mismatch when this is something it discussed with Mrs O. It repeated it shouldnt 
be held accountable for someone elses mistakes.
 
When insurers carry out repairs further to a claim we expect those to be done to a 
reasonable standard and also for the insurer to ensure the consumer is put back in the 
position they were in before their claim. We dont expect insurers to put consumers in a 
better or in a worse position. In this case UKI says it cant see how Mrs O is now in a worse 
position when, effectively, the quality the paint job on her car was already poor. But I dont think that just because the car had issues with paint generally, this meant that whatever UKI 
did it couldnt make matters any worse. Mrs O says the door now looks a lighter shade of 
white which wasnt the case before the repairs were done. UKI accepts that the paint work 
wouldnt match the rest of the car and says it warned Mrs O of this. But as I already told UKI 
I think it could have done a better job at explaining this to Mrs O and that if it had, she 
wouldve chosen the CIL instead.
The rest of my findings remain the same as they were in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint and instructing UK Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs O the cash in lieu settlement it had previously offered but limited to the 
cost of painting the door (including labour and VAT). I note UK Insurance Limited also paid 
for the door to be replaced. I dont think its payment should include the cost of the new door. 
It should also pay interest on the amount it pays from the date the repairs were carried out to 
the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
It should also pay Mrs O £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. UK 
Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.
If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman