DRN-4381708
The complaint
Mr S complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave him a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr S was granted one loan of £800 on 14 December 2022. Mr S was due to make three
monthly repayments of £342.39. As of February 2023, an outstanding balance remained
due, but it is possible that the loan has now been repaid.
MoneyBoat reviewed Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this response,
Mr S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator then considered the complaint, and she didnt uphold it because she thought
MoneyBoat had carried out proportionate checks.
Mr S didnt agree with the outcome, saying in summary:
He had a number of defaults, with two of them not yet satisfied.
Mr S was utilising over 90% of his available credit  which ought to have been a red 
flag.
There were three County Court Judgements (CCJ)s on his credit file.
He provided a list of creditors that were outstanding (and the value of those debts) at 
the time this loan was advanced.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision, I then issued 
my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible, 
but in any event, no later than 29 September 2023. 
Mr S didnt have any further comments or information that he wanted to present and 
MoneyBoat acknowledged the provisional decision but didnt have anything further to add. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator didnt consider
this applied to Mr Ss complaint as there was only one loan and I agree.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr S for details of his income, which he
declared as being £2,784 per month. MoneyBoat says the income figure was checked either
by obtaining a copy of Mr Ss wage slip or by cross referencing information through a third-
party report. MoneyBoat also says that it confirmed Mr Ss employment prior to the loan
being funded.
Mr S also declared monthly outgoings of £2,000 which included but not limited to a number
of categories such as a rent/mortgage payment of £500, £500 for credit commitments and
£100 for transport.
As part of the application, MoneyBoat used information from its credit search (which Ill
discuss below) as to decide whether it needed to adjust the declared expenditure Mr S had
provided. As a result, of this check, Mr Ss monthly expenditure wasnt increased, so
MoneyBoat believed his outgoings to be £2,000 per month.
After carrying out these checks, Mr Ss disposable income was £784 per month in order to
meet his loan repayments of around £342. So, the loan based on the income and
expenditure details looked affordable.
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. And its these credit search
results that I am concerned about in this case, considering as part of the application process
Mr S declared only £500 of credit commitments.
Looking at the results, MoneyBoat knew that Mr S owed total debts of around £22,000 but
nearly £15,000 of that was owed towards a hire purchase (HP) agreement  which I am
assuming to likely be a vehicle.MoneyBoat knew within the last six years Mr S had defaulted on a total of five accounts. And
while these were historic in nature (the defaults being recorded between 2017 and 2019)
and most had been satisfied. I dont think these alone were enough to uphold the complaint.
But it did show that in the years before the loan was approved, Mr S experienced financial
difficulties.
In addition to the defaults, there were also two satisfied CCJs but the most recent one was
granted in 2019 and satisfied in January 2020. As above this was further indication that in
the not too distance past, Mr S had experienced some difficulties.
However, the credit checks gave an overview of his active accounts, it knew that Mr S had
one HP agreement, one payday loan and then three other longer-term loans termed
Finance House outstanding at the time the loan was advanced.
All of these Finance House loans had been opened in 2022 with the most recent being
opened two weeks before this MoneyBoat loan was granted. The cost to service these
agreements came to around £843 per month  significantly more than the £500 that Mr S
had declared as part of his application.
In addition, there were also four credit cards with total outstanding debt of £3,578 and
looking at a minimum payment  Mr S would likely be expected to make a payment of at
least £180 to service these accounts each month. Although its worth saying here that
looking at his repayment history, Mr S typically paid more than that each month. Overall,
even before the loan was approved Mr S had outstanding credit commitments of at least
£1,020 per month.
If you substitute this figure into the other expenditure information MoneyBoat obtained  for
example with the costs declared for rent, food and transport. This gives a total monthly
expenditure of £2,520 leaving £264 per month in disposable income. But this disposable
income isnt enough to cover the loan repayments, because the loan repayments were
contracted to be £342.39 per month. Clearly, the loan was unaffordable based on the
information MoneyBoat gathered.
Had MoneyBoat fully considered the credit commitments that it was told about  in the credit
search it ought to have concluded that Mr S couldnt afford his loan repayments and
therefore I am intending to uphold his complaint.
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S nor MoneyBoat has provided anything new for my consideration I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think, 
the loan was affordable for Mr S when taking account of the outstanding debts that were 
visible in the credit check results and what Mr S declared about his other living costs. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to 
do in order to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Mr S. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all
hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not
attempted to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr S may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application - which may or may not have been the same - is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new (responsible)
lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent to Mr S and the redress below deals with both situations as I 
cant be sure whether the loan has been repaid. 
If MoneyBoat have sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if MoneyBoat is able to do
so and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat cant buy the debt back, then
MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges towards the loan without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything MoneyBoat have already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest, less deductible tax* on the individual 
payments made by Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the 
date Mr S originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of the 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr S having made 
overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest, less deductible tax* calculated from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman