DRN-3850255
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Pace Financial Management (PFM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed with the investigators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in which I said I was likely to reach a substantially different 
conclusion to the investigator and uphold the complaint. A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are set out below, in italics, and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could  
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Bs now ex-employer sent out Time to Choose information asking 
members of the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either 
remain in BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS 
benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was 
later extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr B was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought 
advice. Mr B first met with PFM in November 2017 and it completed a fact-find to gather 
information about his circumstances and objectives. PFM also carried out an assessment of 
Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low medium.
Towards mid to late November 2017 Mr B said he met with another advice firm and in 
January 2018 he received its advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
Mr B met with PFM at the end of January 2018 whereupon it advised him to transfer his 
BSPS benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds in a lifestyle tracker fund, 
which FPM deemed matched Mr Bs attitude to risk.
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: the growth required to
match Mr Bs DB scheme benefits was realistic; a transfer would provide Mr B with flexibility 
in how and when he took his benefits; Mr B was concerned about the future status of his DB 
scheme even with the PPF to fall back on; and the recommended plan offered a wide range 
of investment funds.
Mr B accepted the advice and in June 2018 around £227,000 was transferred to his new 
personal pension.
In 2020 Mr B complained to PFM about the suitability of the transfer advice. PFM didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary it said:
It denied Mr Bs assertion that he was told at the outset that transferring was a no 
brainer. the options available to Mr B  whether to retain his benefits within the 
scheme or transfer out - were set out clearly in its suitability letter.
Risk warnings were given in the suitability report, which demonstrate that it gave a 
balanced view of things.
It denied telling Mr B that he could take his tax-free cash lump sum at 55 along with a 
£1,000 a month and his fund wouldnt diminish, which it says is evidenced by the fact 
that a retirement age of 65 was used in its modelling. But it said the suitability report 
did make reference to Mr B possibly taking benefits at 55 to clear some of his 
outstanding debts.
Overall it said the recommendation was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr B asked this service to consider his complaint. And an
investigator did not uphold it. In summary they said their reasons for this were: 
Overall they considered the recommendation was suitable as it met Mr Bs needs 
and objectives.
While the critical yield or growth rate of 7.62% - 7.72% needed to match Mr Bs 
scheme benefits would suggest there was limited opportunity to improve on his 
benefits, they considered the lower Hurdle rate was a more appropriate measure for 
Mr B  for example he was single and wouldnt benefit from the schemes spouses 
pension.
Because this rate was lower than the expected growth rate, they thought Mr B could 
improve on his retirement benefits by transferring. They also considered this was 
also the case if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Mr B had other pension provision he could rely on to support his income in 
retirement, including another deferred DB scheme.
A transfer to a personal pension arrangement provided Mr B with flexibility in how he 
took his benefits, which was something he said he was attracted to.
They considered Mr Bs options for his pension  whether to remain in the scheme 
and move to the PFF or transfer - were considered by PFM.
A personal pension allowed Mr B to provide a legacy for his son, which remaining in 
the scheme wouldnt have allowed him to do
But they said, the evidence didnt support Mr Bs assertion that PFM told him he could take £1,000 a month from his pension at 55 and his fund wouldnt diminish 
everything pointed to this being a target income at 65.
Mr B disagreed. In summary he said:
He maintained that PFM told him a transfer was a no brainer at their first meeting 
and that he could take an income at 55 whilst maintaining his fund value, which he 
said sounded attractive.
He acknowledges it was highlighted what he was giving up by transferring, but says 
he was led by what the adviser told him.
While it was a priority to leave something to his son and his DB scheme couldnt 
provide this, he suggests there are other ways or doing this such as life assurance.
Mr B also explained that he did see another advice firm around the same time 
because some of his other colleagues were using their services to transfer their 
pensions. He said towards the end of January 2018 they told him they wouldnt 
transfer his BSPS pension because it wasnt in his best interests. He said he hadnt 
heard anything from PFM since mid-November 2017 and he felt he was left high and 
dry - so with the deadline looming he contacted PFM again telling him he wanted to 
proceed. But he said he doesnt want to appear as someone who wanted to transfer 
at any costs. He said he was led by what the adviser told him at their first meeting  it 
was a stressful period of time and he was making decisions he had no real idea 
about.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
In submitting further evidence for my consideration, PFM provided a chain of emails, which 
show correspondence between it and Mr B during December 2017. It says this shows Mr B 
was not left high and dry as he says. Mr B broadly repeated what hed said before.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal  
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, I intend to uphold the complaint 
for the following reasons.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not currently persuaded 
that it was in his best interests.
I firstly want to address what I consider is the important matter of the timing of the advice in 
this case. As I said above, in October 2017 Mr B received his Time to Choose information 
asking him what he wanted to do with his preserved DB scheme benefits. And the deadline 
to make his choice was 11 December 2017, later extended to 22 December 2017. Mr B met 
with PFM in November 2017, which was during this period. And despite what Mr B 
remembers, he was corresponding with them during late November 2017 (after the initial 
fact-find meeting) and throughout December 2017, during which a further meeting was 
scheduled for early January 2018.
But none of PFMs communication with Mr B during this period refer to him having to make 
this decision about his preserved benefits - there was no reference to the Time to Choose 
period, no mention of the deadline or any sense of urgency about things when I consider 
there should have been. Mr B sought advice because of the decision he was being asked to 
make by the December deadline. And while I accept that when Mr B approached PFM time 
was running out, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that PFM couldnt have hurried 
things and prioritised its advice to Mr B to ensure it was completed prior to the deadline 
(PFM had Mr Bs CETV for example) rather than waiting until the deadline had passed and 
so removing Mr Bs choice to opt into the BSPS2.
As it transpires, and as Ill explain in my decision, I think it was in Mr Bs best interests to 
remain in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF rather than opt in to the BSPS2. This is 
because if Mr B took a reduced pension and the tax-free cash benefit available under the 
PPF at his intended retirement age of 65, which is what I think he would likely do, both were 
greater than was likely available under the BSPS2 at 65. Unfortunately Mr Bs Time to 
Choose leaflet which contained the information about the benefits he could receive under 
the BSPS2 isnt available - so I cant say for certain this was the case.
But based on the analysis PFM did of Mr Bs benefits had the existing scheme stayed in 
place, it appears to me that if Mr B took tax-free cash, the benefits available to him through 
the PPF were marginally better than those provided by the existing scheme. 
The analysis shows Mr B could take £63,235.78 tax-free cash and a pension of £9,488.12 
through the PPF and £62,153 tax-free cash and a pension of £9,323 through the existing 
scheme. And given that the BSPS2 wouldnt provide Mr B with as generous benefits as the 
existing scheme (because of the lower revaluations and escalations), I think its likely the 
BSPS2 benefits wouldve been lower than those provided by the PPF. So I think it is more 
likely than not the PPF would provide Mr B with greater benefits in the circumstances Ive 
described.And of course at the time of the actual advice in January 2018, Mr Bs choice to join the 
BSPS2 had expired  so his only option at this stage was to remain in the scheme and move 
with it to the PPF or transfer out. So this is what Ive considered here.
Financial viability
PFM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). But this was based on his existing scheme 
benefits and Mr B didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  at this stage he would 
move with the scheme to the PPF. So Ive only considered the critical yields based on the 
benefits available to Mr B under the PPF as I discussed above.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was 51 at the time of the advice, and the paperwork records that while he was unsure 
when he would retire, it would probably be around 65. Mr B had two deferred scheme 
benefits, so PFM produced two critical yield or growth rates. And these show that the growth 
rates required to match the benefits through the PPF if Mr B transferred to a personal 
pension were 4.75% and 5.06% assuming he took a full pension, and 4.36% and 4.63% if he 
took tax-free cash and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given, which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, assuming the most likely option of Mr B electing to take tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension, the critical yields were above the discount rate. And while they were lower 
than the middle projection rate, I think it was clear that Mr B was unlikely to match let alone 
exceed the benefits available to him through his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with his low medium attitude to risk.
Because of the required sustained growth rate, I think it is clear the transfer was not 
compatible with Mr Bs attitude to risk. To have come close to achieving the level of growth 
needed, in my view it would have required Mr B to take a higher level of risk than his 
recorded appetite. And even then I think its likely Mr B would have been no better off 
financially at retirement if he transferred out.
I can see the investigator considered the Hurdle Rate was a more appropriate measure  a 
significantly lower rate of around 2.5% assuming Mr B took a full pension  because it better reflected Mr Bs circumstances given he was single and the spouses pension provided by 
the DB scheme wouldnt have been important to him.
But I disagree. While Mr B was single and the spouses pension wouldnt have been 
important to him, its possible that it wouldve been in the future if Mr B did get married later 
in life. Also the Hurdle Rate did not account for the guaranteed and escalating income in 
retirement the DB scheme provided. So I still consider the critical yield figure gives an 
important indication of the value of the benefits Mr B was considering giving up. Its also the 
case that the regulator requires it to be provided and so deems it a necessary and important 
part of the decision-making process.
For these reasons and based on financial viability alone, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best 
interests to transfer out of the DB scheme. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations, which mean 
a transfer is nevertheless suitable. Ive considered below whether such other reasons 
applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr B says he was told by PFM at their first meeting that he could take a lump sum at 55 and 
then supplement his income by withdrawing £1,000 a month, and this wouldnt reduce his 
pension fund. Ive not seen anything to support this. But what I have seen is that PFMs 
suitability report said Mr B wanted as much flexibility as possible as to how and when he 
took his benefits. It also said Mr B might want to access his tax-free entitlement at 55 to clear 
some of his outstanding debts.
But Im not persuaded Mr B required flexibility in retirement. I also cant see evidence that Mr 
B had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement, or that he needed to 
access his tax-free cash earlier than his DB schemes normal retirement age and leave his 
funds invested until a later date.
I say this because firstly Mr B didnt have any firm plans to retire. The suitability report said 
that it would probably be around 65, which was Mr Bs DB schemes normal retirement age 
anyway. The report said Mr B would like the option of taking a higher income when he retired 
until his state pension became payable, but it didnt really provide justification for why. It said 
that Mr B wanted to take a higher income whilst he was fit and healthy reducing it later on 
when he was less active. But Mr Bs target income was a £1,000 a month. And this doesnt 
strike me as being particularly high indicating there was scope to reduce it later on when, for 
example Mr B could no longer do the things he wanted to do.
In my view this this was a relatively modest income target, which Mr B would most likely 
need in retirement regardless. So I think this flexibility as it was described wasnt a real 
objective of Mr Bs  I think it was simply a consequence of transferring out to a different 
arrangement.
The suitability report also said that Mr B wanted flexibility because he might want to access 
his tax-free cash at age 55 to clear some of his outstanding debt. And I accept that 
repayment of debt might have seemed like a good idea. But just because Mr B might have 
thought it was a good idea, it doesnt mean that PFM had to execute what he thought he 
needed  it was PFMs role to decide what was in his best interests.
Mr Bs mortgage was on an interest-only basis, and it appears he didnt have a specific 
repayment vehicle in place for its ultimate repayment. But it doesnt appear that Mr B needed to repay his mortgage at age 55. For example it appears that it was affordable based on 
PFMs income and expenditure analysis it carried out during the fact-find meeting. And given 
Mr B intended to carry on working he couldve continued to service the debt from his earned 
income until he retired at age 65.
While PFM didnt ascertain Mr Bs mortgage term, evidence provided by Mr B indicates that, 
at the time it still had around 17 years to run  so in my view there was no pressing need to 
repay it. Given this, Im not persuaded there was a need for Mr B to repay the debt at age 55 
and certainly no pressing need to access his tax-free cash earlier than his schemes normal 
retirement age to achieve it. I see no reason why Mr B couldnt have been advised to either 
save some of his excess income to use towards its ultimate repayment or make 
overpayments to reduce its balance over time. He could then wait and use his tax-free cash 
from his DB scheme at his normal retirement age - documented as being just over £63,000 
through the PPF  which wouldve gone most, if not all of the way to clearing it. Im mindful 
too that Mr B had his current workplace pension and another deferred pension, which he 
couldve used his tax-free cash entitlement for if needed.
I can see that PFMs analysis shows that assuming a fund growth rate of 5% Mr Bs 
entitlement to tax-free cash couldve been around £12,000 more than the DB scheme 
offered. But this wasnt guaranteed. And the growth rate needed, in my view wouldve 
required a higher risk appetite than Mr B indicated he was prepared to take. Furthermore, 
even by risking his pension benefits, this wouldnt have likely provided Mr B with a lump sum 
big enough to clear his outstanding debts in full  he wouldve still needed to take the other 
action I set out above.
For these reasons Im not persuaded that Mr Bs desire to pay down some of his debts was 
a good enough reason for him to give up a secure, guaranteed, escalating pension income 
in retirement.
Turning to Mr Bs income need. As I said above, Mr Bs income need was recorded as being 
around £1,000 a month based on his expenditure being less than it currently was while he 
was working. As I said above, it's likely Mr B would need to take the maximum tax-free cash 
at retirement to repay his mortgage. On this basis he wouldve been entitled to an income of 
around £9,500 through the PPF  and this would not have met his need. 
But I still think Mr B couldve met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB 
scheme until the state pension became payable. This could be achieved because Mr B had 
two other sources of retirement income as I referred to above to supplement this income. 
PFM didnt record what this income was - but it should have so that it could advise Mr B fully 
on his retirement needs. And while neither would likely provide a substantial income  his 
DB scheme was the primary source of his retirement income  I think these wouldve 
provided enough to meet Mr Bs income need - at least to fund the two-year period until 
Mr Bs state pension became payable.
Overall I still think Mr B couldve met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB 
scheme and moving with it to the PPF.
Death benefits
The suitability report said that Mr B wanted to ensure that his family could benefit from any 
available funds in the event of his death, particularly as Mr B wasnt married but he had a 
son. That said, I note it also said that it wasnt a major reason for the transfer.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B given the circumstances. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement and not a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater, or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Bs security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Bs death was dependent on investment returns and if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment returns were lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to pass 
on anyway.
The PPF couldve provided Mr Bs son with a benefit if he died before retirement. And there 
also remained the possibility that the spouses benefit would be beneficial if Mr B met and 
married someone later in life. I think PFM couldve made this clearer to Mr B.
I can see that PFMs suitability report said it discussed a protection plan to provide a lump 
sum in the event of Mr Bs death, but it appears to have been discounted because it wasnt a 
major reason for wanting to transfer and Mr B didnt want to increase his monthly outgoings.
But if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his son, which is what the original fact-find 
said was the case, I think PFM ought to have explored in more detail how he couldve gone 
about this using life assurance, without risking his retirement income. And the starting point 
for this ought to have been to ask how much Mr B would ideally like to leave to his son and 
how much he could afford. While the suitability report said Mr D didnt want to increase his 
outgoings, given Mr Ds disposable income at the time, I think its likely this wouldve shown 
to be affordable had PFM properly explored costings with Mr B at the time.
In my view, this was the way forward and what PFM ought to have explored in more detail 
and ultimately recommended  I consider this wouldve met Mr Bs objective.
Overall I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
PFMs suitability report said that Mr Bs main reason for considering a transfer of his BSPS 
benefits was because of his concerns about the alterations being made to the pension 
scheme and the future status of the scheme if he remained in it even with the PPF to fall 
back on. I have no doubt that Mr B was concerned about his pension. He said that many of 
his colleagues were transferring, which is why he also sought advice from another firm.
There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So its possible that Mr B was also 
considering transferring because of these concerns about his employer and what might 
happen. But it was PFMs duty to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
At the time of the advice, the Time to Choose period had ended - so any concerns Mr B had 
about the new BSPS2 were no longer relevant. And in terms of Mr Bs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF, based on what Ive seen and discussed earlier on, Mr Bs 
income needs wouldve still been broadly met through the PPF despite the 10% reduction in 
starting benefits. And in fact, based on the advice paperwork, Mr Bs benefits wouldve been 
almost the same if he opted to take his tax-free cash lump sum, which is what I think he 
wouldve most likely done.While the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, importantly the income was still 
guaranteed. Although it was true that Mr B wouldnt have been able to transfer out of the 
PPF at a later date, I dont think he needed to do so to meet his retirement objectives. So I 
think PFM ought to have reassured Mr B that, moving to the PPF was not as concerning as 
he thought or was led to believe.
Summary
I accept that Mr B was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher or 
different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like attractive 
features to Mr B. But PFM wasnt there to just facilitate what Mr B might have thought he 
wanted or what he thought was the right thing to do based on what his other colleagues 
were doing. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
But ultimately I currently think PFM failed to do so  I dont think the advice given to Mr B 
was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which along 
with his other retirement provision, including his state pension would likely meet his 
retirement income need. I dont think Mr B had a real need to access his tax-free cash early 
to repay his debts  I think he couldve waited and used his entitlement at his normal 
retirement age to help achieve this. By transferring, Mr B was unlikely to match let alone 
improve upon his retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So I think PFM shouldve advised Mr B to remain in the DB scheme and move with it to the 
PPF.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against PFMs 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im currently not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against PFMs advice - on balance, I still think he wouldve 
listened to and followed PFMs advice if things had happened as they should have and it 
recommended he stay in the scheme and move with it to the PPF.
I accept that Mr B was motivated to transfer - hed also been told by another firm that he 
shouldnt transfer out of the BSPS, which is why he returned to PFM. So on the one hand, 
this might suggest Mr B was committed to transferring regardless. But Im not persuaded 
that it does. Mr B says it was a difficult period of time during which he was struggling to 
make decisions about things he didnt really know much about. And Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr Bs pensions knowledge was extensive. So with lots of other 
colleagues transferring, I think in returning to PFM Mr B was seeking reassurance from 
another professional and impartial adviser what was in his best interests for his deferred 
pension.
Mr Bs pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision and I dont think he had 
any real capacity for loss. So, if PFM had provided Mr B with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, on balance and 
on hearing this same advice for the second time, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
While Mr B has said lots of his colleagues were transferring their pensions given the 
concerns about the scheme, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer and placed more weight on 
discussions hed had with his colleagues and their actions, knowing that two professional 
advisers, whose expertise he had sought out and importantly was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests.
If PFM had clearly explained that Mr B could meet his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, and that this could be achieved through the PPF despite his concerns 
about it, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
For these reasons, Im not currently persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring 
out of his scheme against PFMs advice.
So in light of the above, I think PFM should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
PFM and Mr B received my provisional decision. Mr B said he had nothing further to add, but 
said he wanted the redress to be carried out in line with the current FG17/9 guidance.
PFM disagreed with my provisional decision. In doing so it commented against many of the 
sections of my provisional decision repeating that it disagreed with my findings and that it 
believes the advice was suitable and in Mr Bs best interests. And while I have read 
everything, I think PFMs key comments can be summarised as follows:
It highlighted the paragraph in my decision where I set out the things I said Id taken 
into account in reaching my provisional decision and said that it expects the case to 
be determined on the evidence and Mr Bs needs, wants and objectives at the time.
Mr B did not want a rigid guaranteed income but wanted total flexibility, which is 
supported by the suitability report, the conversations with the investigator and his 
complaint form. It says it is surprised the ombudsman is not persuaded that Mr B 
wanted flexibility and says the evidence has been disregarded.
The critical yield accounted for a spouses pension, which was irrelevant to Mr B. The 
rate would reduce to somewhere between the critical yield quoted and the hurdle rate 
to account for a single life.
The justification for Mr B wanting a higher income whilst he was fit and healthy 
reducing later on, came directly from Mr B. And regarding Mr Bs target income - 
Mr B said, as documented at the time, that he estimates £1,000 a month would cover 
his expenditure, however this is obviously for basic expenditure only.
The advice paperwork says Mr B was getting by so it believes it is unrealistic that he 
could save his excess income to overpay his mortgage.
Mr Bs pension fund has increased by approximately 23.1% over the invested period, 
so it disagrees with my comment about fund growth and that Mr B wouldve needed 
to take a higher risk appetite than he was prepared to take.
Overall, despite its belief that the advice was suitable for the reasons its given, it has 
carried out two redress calculations for the BSPS2 and the PPF, which it says shows 
no redress is payable and Mr B is in a better position following the advice. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before and for the same 
reasons.
Its clear that PFM disagrees with my findings. But I dont think it has raised anything new in 
response to my provisional decision, so I dont think there is much more I can usefully add to 
what Ive already said in my provisional decision. I will nevertheless comment on a couple of 
the key comments PFM has made.
To PFMs point about how Ive arrived at my decision  as I set out clearly in my provisional 
decision and again at the start of this section of this decision, I have considered all of the 
available evidence and arguments in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. My reference to deciding things on the balance of 
probabilities was in relation to where the evidence is missing, incomplete or contradictory. 
It seems to me that PFMs fundamental argument is that Mr B did want flexibility in how and 
when he took his pension benefits. It says he didnt want a rigid / guaranteed income and 
points to the various pieces of evidence to support this, including the suitability report, Mr Bs 
complaint form and the investigators noted comments from Mr B.
But Im still not persuaded Mr B had a genuine need for flexibility. PFM has referred to the 
investigators assessment which relayed comments Mr B made in a phone call they had 
about the things he was attracted to, which included the ability to take tax-free cash without 
taking an income and taking income as and when needed, for example working part-time 
and topping up his earned income with his pension income. But Mr B said these things were 
what he was attracted to following the conversation with the adviser  not what he planned 
to do or that these were his objectives. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont doubt that 
the flexibility on offer through a personal pension arrangement wouldve sounded attractive 
to Mr B. But PFMs role wasnt simply to give Mr B what he thought he wanted or what 
sounded attractive  its role was to really understand Mr Bs needs and act in his best 
interests. 
I dont think the evidence supports that Mr B had a real need for flexibility. For example, 
theres nothing in the advice paperwork at the time that says Mr B intended for example to 
work part-time and use his pension to top up his income or that he needed to take income as 
and when he needed. In fact the advisers notes accompanying the fact-find say that 
Mr B...is not sure when he will retire at this stage, but anticipates this being around 65 or 
state pension age, but will basically play it by ear... 
And in terms of Mr Bs income need, Ive not seen anything to indicate Mr B needed variable 
income throughout his retirement. In fact Im not persuaded Mr B really knew what his 
income needs would be. 
Again, the advisers note to the fact-find says: We discussed possible income needs in 
retirement and [Mr B] was not sure how much he would need but felt that his expenditure 
would be less than it is currently due to mortgage having gone and less travelling costs, so 
estimate that £1,000 p/m may well do the trick.
PFM has referred to its suitability letter as evidence of Mr Bs need for flexibility where it said 
he wanted a higher income whilst he was fit and healthy reducing later on. It says the justification for Mr B wanting this came directly from him. 
But as Ive shown above, the information about Mr Bs circumstances gathered by PFM 
during its advice process, in my view, clearly shows that Mr B had no firm retirement plans or 
any deep understanding of what his income needs in retirement would be. Given the advice 
paperwork records that Mr B intended to continue working until 65  despite what PFM has 
argued in response to my provisional decision  its not surprising to me that Mr B had not 
thought that far ahead. So I think the ability to take a variable income was simply a feature or 
a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement rather than a real objective of 
Mr Bs.
Furthermore, if Mr B did have a genuine need for variable income, I think PFMs retirement 
modelling wouldve reflected a scenario where Mr B took an initial higher income  and what 
that income amount was  reducing later on to show how his pension fund could or could not 
support this. But from what I can see it was simply based on Mr B drawing the same fixed 
income as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme.
In terms of PFMs comment that Mr Bs financial position meant it wasnt realistic that he 
could save his excess income to overpay his mortgage  I can see the advisers note that 
Mr B was getting by. But I can also see the adviser recorded that Mr B had a surplus 
income of £250 a month. So it seems there was potential for Mr B to direct some or all of this 
towards savings and/or repayment of his outstanding mortgage. But even if this wasnt 
possible, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think it was likely to be the case that 
transferring out to a personal pension arrangement was going to provide Mr B with a 
sufficiently larger tax-free cash lump sum than was available through the PPF to allow Mr B 
to repay his debts in full without taking some other action.
Im mindful that PFM has said Mr Bs pension fund has increased in value by over 20% and 
no doubt with that in mind it says it has produced two redress calculations that show Mr B is 
not due any compensation. But Im also mindful that PFM has not shared these calculations. 
And I think in the circumstances, to provide finality to this matter and certainty for both PFM 
and Mr B, it is appropriate for me to continue to issue my final decision. It may well be the 
case that despite the unsuitable advice Mr B has not lost out  but if this is the case, this will 
be borne out in the updated redress calculations PFM will carry out if Mr B accepts this final 
decision. And PFM should note that, as Ive set out below, in this particular case it will need 
to carry out an additional calculation once the process of the buy-out from the PPF is 
completed, which is due in April 2023.
So for the reasons in my provisional decision, which form part of this final decision, together 
with those above, I uphold this complaint and I think PFM should compensate Mr B for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. And as I have previously explained, it is the benefits available to him through 
the PPF that should be used for comparison purposes.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr B has chosen not to wait for any new rules / guidance to come into effect to settle his 
complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for PFM to put Mr B as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So calculations 
should be undertaken on this assumption. PFM must undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of any final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
PFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
PFM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes PFM to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by April 2023.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme now expects to be able to 
have information on this by April 2023. Mr B would possibly have been entitled to an 
increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF. I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating Mr B.
I dont think its reasonable for PFM to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety until 
the buy-out is completed. It had previously been expected to happen in late summer 2022, 
but this has since been updated to April 2023 and so Im conscious that this could be 
delayed further due to its complexity. 
To give some certainty to the parties, I think its fair PFM calculates and pays Mr B 
compensation now as set out above comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the 
buy-out is completed and more detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits 
will increase, PFM should do a second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB 
transfer redress applicable at the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits 
Mr B would have been entitled to after the buy-out.
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are known. PFM should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr B becomes aware 
further information is available, he should let PFM know. If the second calculation results in a 
higher redress amount than the first calculation, PFM must pay Mr B the difference. If the 
second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the first calculation, 
no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has completed. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the announcement date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it 
takes PFM to pay Mr B.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pace Financial 
Management to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pace Financial Management to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pace 
Financial Management to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pace Financial Management pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pace Financial 
Management.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman