DRN-1384752
 
complaint
Mr R says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr R took out a regular premium PPI policy with a loan in 1997 and cancelled it in 1999. He 
paid a monthly amount for the policy, which provided cover if he couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case. 
It is not easy deciding cases where there is limited or no paperwork available from the sale. 
In this case, neither Nationwide nor Mr R have been able to provide the actual paperwork 
from the sale that was completed during the sale, which isnt surprising given the sale took 
place more than 22 years ago and the policy was cancelled over 20 years ago. So I need to 
think about whats most likely to have happened. 
Mr R says that the PPI was added without his consent. So Ive thought about that and Ive 
also taken into account the sample documentation that Nationwide has provided from 
around the time of the sale. Ive noted the credit agreement most likely explained that PPI 
had been selected to cover the loan. So, if the PPI had been added to the loan without Mr 
Rs consent, then the credit agreement which Mr R signed should have led him to 
understand it had, such that I would have expected him to raise this as an issue many years 
before he chose to do so. 
I also note the credit agreement most likely described the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance. 
So, having thought about all of the submissions made to me in this case, I think its more 
likely that Nationwide got the agreement of Mr R to take the policy and that he did so 
knowing he had a choice to do so, even if he does not remember that now, many years later. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think Mr R 
would have found the policy useful. I explain below why I see that.It seems Mr R was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. Mr R told us he was self employed but having 
looked at the documentation that Nationwide has provided from around the time of the sale, 
it seems most likely that the terms that applied to a self employed person making a claim 
under the policy would not have been onerous. 
And Mr R told us that, because he was self employed, he had no sick pay in the event he 
couldnt work. And that he had no other means he could rely on to help meet his 
repayments. Upon a successful claim the policy couldve paid out for up to at least 24 
months if ill health stopped Mr R from working, and for up to 12 months if he lost his work. 
So, I think Mr R couldve found the policy useful. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr Rs representative has questioned how Mr R could have managed to wait the 30 days of 
the deferred period as he had no means to rely on in that period. This is a reasonably 
standard term in such policies. And most likely, the policy was sold without a 
recommendation to Mr R, so Nationwide didnt need to consider if the policy was suitable for 
Mr R. I have said earlier in this decision that its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr 
R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been at the time of the sale. But I think that 
better information wouldnt have put Mr R off the policy for the very reason raised by the 
representative; Mr R had a real need for the potential benefits such a policy offered. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint and I make no award against 
Nationwide Building Society
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman