DRN-3651378
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s response to a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR), linked to a claim made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Around July 2021, Miss A made a DSAR to UKI. UKI says it sent the information to Miss A 
on 19 August 2021 by secure email.
Miss A says she didnt receive the email and so contacted UKI around October 2021 to 
chase the matter. UKI says it resent the DSAR by recorded delivery.
Miss As solicitor also contacted UKI to request information. UKI couldnt respond to the 
solicitor as it didnt have the required authority to do so.
Miss A continued to chase the matter and UKI says it sent a further copy of the DSAR 
around March 2022 by email, followed by a recorded delivery around May 2022.
Miss A is unhappy because she says its taken UKI too long to provide the information, it 
doesnt contain all of the information she asked for, and the delay in providing the 
information has had an impact on separate proceedings that she wishes to take.
UKI says it complied with the DSAR request within the required timescales and has provided 
the related information.
Miss A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at everything and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. They concluded UKI had acted reasonably in dealing 
with Miss As DSAR request. And they said that if Miss A was unhappy with the content of 
the DSAR, she could contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Miss A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
My role is to consider whether UKI acted fairly and reasonably in responding to     
Miss As DSAR request. I agree that it isnt the role of our service to comment on the 
content of a DSAR. So, if Miss A is unhappy with the information provided, she could 
contact the ICO.
The evidence Ive seen shows that each DSAR Miss A requested was acknowledged 
and processed by UKI. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to send the DSAR via 
secure email as this would be quicker than by post. And I can see UKI sent the 
DSAR via recorded delivery when Miss A asked. Having considered the timeline of 
events, I dont think any of these requests were handled unreasonably, or avoidably 
delayed. 
Miss A says the DSARs werent received which is why she had to keep chasing UKI. 
UKI has shown evidence the DSARs were sent via recorded delivery and signed for. 
So, I think its done enough to show the DSARs were sent correctly. And I cant hold 
it responsible for anything that may have happened after that.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss A has provided the relevant authority for 
her solicitor to deal with UKI directly. So, I find it reasonable that UKI didnt share her 
information with an unauthorised party.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman