DRN-3749045
The complaint
Mrs P as the trustee of the P Trust complains that Legal and General Assurance Society
Limited (L&G) didnt accept a claim made under a term assurance policy.
What happened
Mr P took out a term assurance policy which commenced on 1 October 2019. Very sadly Mr 
P died in December 2020. Mrs P made a claim under the policy for the benefit of £500,000.
L&G said that if Mr P had answered questions correctly when applying for the policy, it 
wouldnt have given him a policy at all. Accordingly it declined the claim and refunded the 
premiums paid.
Unhappy, Mrs P as a trustee of the P Trust referred her complaint here. Our investigator 
ultimately said it should be upheld and that L&G should meet the claim with interest and 
pay compensation to Mrs P in the sum of £600.
L&G appealed. It conceded there was no misrepresentation with regard to the blood tests 
question but remained concerned about the answers Mr P had given to the questions 
regarding weight loss and a cough.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was been passed to me to review and
determine. I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2022. I said as follows:
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry
guidance that was in place at the time, called the Misrepresentation and Treating
Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life,
Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019. I will refer to
this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
taking out an insurance policy. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care, it sets out the
remedies available to the insurer. These depend on whether there has been a claim and the
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. CIDRA sets out a number of
considerations for deciding whether the consumer took reasonable care, including if the
questions asked at application by the insurer were clear and specific.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether there was what the
Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation and whether this was deliberate or reckless,
or careless. For any misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, as well as showing the
consumer failed to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to be able to show it made a
difference to the terms on which it would have offered the policy or that it wouldnt have
offered the policy at all.
L&G felt that Mr P had failed to take reasonable care not to make a representation in answer
to particular questions it asked on the application form. Mr P completed the application form
in September 2019. I will deal with these areas in turn.
Blood tests
Under the heading Health  Last 2 years Mr P disclosed he had one of the listed conditions.
The form went on to ask questions about the condition including: Are you still having blood
tests for this condition? and Were you told that there was anything wrong with your last
blood tests for this condition?
L&G originally said Mr P should have answered yes to these questions. However further
evidence from Mr Ps hepatologist explained that Mr P had been told in April 2019 that his
blood tests were within normal range, but a three month follow up was requested. The
results of the follow up which took place on 25 June 2019 were sent to Mr Ps GP  who in
turn advised him they were normal.
Accordingly our investigators view was that there was nothing to show Mr P was told he
needed any further blood tests after June 2019 and his last results had been normal. As
there was nothing to suggest Mr P had been told he would need ongoing blood tests he
didnt think there had been an incorrect answer given in respect of the blood test questions.
L&G agreed. I think this was correct. On the evidence before me Im satisfied that there was
no misrepresentation in respect of these questions and that negative answers were correctly
given.
Weight loss
The application form asked further health related questions. Specifically Mr P was asked:
During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
- Unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth
It is not in dispute that Mr P had lost weight in the weeks before the policy started. He had
lost 5kg between 12 September 2019 and 7 October 2019. This is recorded in his medical
notes, as is his weight in June 2018 which was 8kg more than in September 2019.
However the testimony of Mrs P is that Mr P was weighed regularly as part of reviews for
diabetes, one of his disclosed conditions. She says that in June 2018 he was advised to lose
weight and was given a target weight, meaning that he needed to lose approximately 14kg.
She says he went regularly to the gym and changed his diet  he made deliberate attempts
to lose weight. I find this evidence to be plausible. I note too that an entry in the GP notes on 
19 July 2019 says that Mr P had recently reduced his exercise but agreed to get back to
regular exercise. This corroborates Mrs Ps testimony.
It follows that I dont find that L&G has shown Mr P failed to take reasonable care when
answering this question. Against the background set out above Im satisfied that Mr P might
well have thought that his weight loss wasnt unexpected, but rather a consequence of his
efforts to lose weight.
Cough
Under the same multi-part question: During the last 3 months have you had any of the
following? Mr P was asked whether hed had:
- A cough thats lasted for 3 weeks or more
Ive seen Mr Ps GP notes. On 3 September 2019 it is recorded that Mr P attended for a
viral sore throat. On 26 September 2019 it is recorded that Mr P had a cough andsore throat for 3 weeks +.
L&G say that Mr P should have answered this question affirmatively, as he had a cough for
more than three weeks. But it is not clear whether the record is that Mr P had a sore throat
for three weeks plus, or sore throat and cough for three weeks plus.
I find it is relevant that the earlier GP record from 3 September 2019 doesnt mention a
cough only a viral sore throat. Mrs P explained to L&G that Mr P returned to his GP when
his symptoms worsened. I understand that this was only six days after the policy started but I
find Mrs Ps explanation to be plausible.
As the policy started on 1 October 2019, under the duty of ongoing disclosure, Mr Ps
answers had to be accurate at the time the policy went live. Three weeks before the policy
went live was 10 September 2019. That means that to void the policy for a misrepresentation
in response to this question, L&G would need to show that it is more likely than not that the
cough developed before 10 September 2019.
I havent disregarded L&Gs point that a hospital letter dated 28 November 2019 says Mr P
had a cough going back to May. I havent seen such a letter although a letter dated
December does say that Mr P presented with a cough in May. But there is nothing at all in
the GP notes to suggest that he did present with a cough in this month. The first mention of
a cough is 26 September 2019, referred to above.
As there is no mention in the medical notes of a cough before 10 September 2019, three
weeks before the policy started, I dont find that L&G has shown that Mr P failed to take
reasonable care in answering this question or that he made a misrepresentation in response
to this question.
Finally, Mrs P brings this complaint as a trustee. She has said that she has suffered distress
and inconvenience as a result of this claim being declined and I have no doubt that is true.
However she brings this complaint not in her personal capacity, but as a trustee. This was
not a straightforward claim and, in the circumstances, I dont intend to award compensation
for inconvenience to the trust.
My provisional decision was to uphold the complaint. I indicated that I thought that fair 
compensation was £500,000, but that the L&G should pay the P Trust £355,000 plus 8% 
simple interest from 25 August 2021 until settlement. I recommended that L&G paid the 
balance with interest.
Mrs P accepted my provisional decision on behalf of the P Trust. L&G didnt. In summary it 
made two points.
Firstly it felt that it was being dismissed that Mr Ps cough had been present for three weeks 
plus, when the GP notes state that he had a cough and sore throat and didnt separate the 
two to indicate the cough had presented later than the sore throat or that the timescales for 
each were different. It felt that it was clear that Mr P had a cough and sore throat for three 
weeks plus. It also mentioned the hospital appointment of 28 November 2019 which states 
Mr P had a cough going back to May 2019. The GP further clarified the entry but L&G felt 
that this just reiterated what it already knew from the medical notes but didnt provide 
information for it to discount the hospital letter. 
Secondly L&G didnt feel that the medical notes supported the weight loss. It noted that on 7 
October 2019 a four-month history of weight loss was recorded, suggesting weight loss from 
June 2019. The entry of 12 September 2019 states that Mr P will start exercise and lifestyle 
changes and on 19 July 2019 he agreed to get back to regular exercise. L&G didnt think that this indicated planned weight loss during this time and nor was it indicative of an avid 
gym goer. L&G noted that the GP referral of 9 October 2019 was for drastic weight loss. It 
commented that it wouldnt expect to see an urgent referral for drastic weight loss so soon 
after the policy start date if the loss was planned and intended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular I have re-visited the evidence regarding Mr Ps cough and weight loss in the 
light of L&Gs comments.
L&G has seen the further report from Mr Ps GP clarifying the entry of 26 September 2019 
which says cough and sore throat for 3 weeks+. The GP confirms that Mr P initially 
presented on 26 September 2019 with a cough. He previously presented on 3 September 
2019 with a sore throat. The GP confirms he first presented with a persistent cough on 7 
October 2019. Against this background I understand why L&G has pointed out what appears 
to be an inconsistency. 
A hospital letter dated 28 November 2019 makes reference to Mr P presenting with a cough 
in May which did not settle. My provisional finding was that this entry wasnt corroborated by 
the GP notes and that remains to be the case. Of course knowing of Mr Ps diagnosis and 
subsequent tragic death it would be easy to read more into the entry on the hospital letter  
but to do so would be unfair and contrary to the spirit of CIDRA. CIDRA here is concerned 
with the pre-contract representations and disclosure. Ive considered this carefully but Im not 
persuaded on the evidence here that Mr P failed to take reasonable care in answering the 
question about a cough for three weeks or more. His answer accords with his GP records at 
a practice where he was known. The hospital letter is standalone, and at odds with the GP 
records which show no entry/presentation in May 2019 for cough. It is apparent though that 
he was seen July 2019 by his GP practice, so its fair to conclude Mr P could have raised 
this if it was an issue, but a cough wasnt noted in the records.
I appreciate that L&G wouldnt expect to see a referral for drastic weight loss so soon after 
the policy start date. But I think it is important to note that Mr P didnt attend his GP because 
of weight loss  and drastic weight loss werent his words. This brings me back to what we 
know  that Mr P had been exercising and trying to lose weight over a period of time. I dont 
propose to repeat the details as they are well known to the parties and evidence from the 
medical records. But its not in dispute that Mr P was diabetic and was advised to lose 
weight. The question that Mr P was asked was whether he had experienced unexplained 
weight loss. I dont find L&G have shown that he failed in his duty to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation by answering no here.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and those set out above I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business. The limit is set by the date the complaint was referred here and the date of the act 
complained about. Here the limit is £355,000, plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If
I think that fair compensation is more than £355,000, I may recommend that Legal and
General Assurance Society Limited pays the balance.
Determination and awardI think that fair compensation is £500,000. My decision is that Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited should pay the P Trust £355,000 plus 8% simple interest from 25 August
2021 until settlement.
Recommendation
I think fair compensation is more than £355,000, so I recommend that Legal and
General Assurance Society Limited pays the P Trust the balance with interest.
This recommendation does not form part of my determination or award.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint and require Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P as trustee of 
the P Trust to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman