DRN-3149536
The complaint
Mr H says Zopa Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Zopa operated the lending platform which gave Mr H a 36-month loan for £2,500 in June 
2019. The monthly repayments were £106.59 and the total repayable was £3,837.24.
Mr H says the loan was unaffordable for him, it drove more debt and financial hardship for 
him. 
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. She said Zopas checks were not 
proportionate and better checks would have shown Mr H was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan.
Zopa disagreed. It asked for confirmation of Mr Hs housing costs saying he declared them 
to be £0. On receipt of these, it argued he still had enough disposable income to afford the 
loan.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Zopa lent to Mr H required it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability 
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Zopa had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Zopa did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr H. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Hs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan
in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Zopa make a fair lending decision?
- did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Zopa asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loans. It asked 
for details of his income and employment. It also checked his credit file to understand his 
credit history and existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan, which 
was wedding costs. From these checks combined Zopa concluded Mr H had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case. Mr H was 
agreeing to repay a loan over a three-year period, so I think Zopa needed a fuller 
understanding of his financial circumstances before concluding the loan was sustainably 
affordable. Zopa accepted that Mr H had no housing costs without further investigation, and 
it knew from its credit check that Mr H had significant unsecured debt of £25,373. So after its 
initial checks I think it ought to have carried out a fuller financial review, based on verified 
actuals, before deciding to lend.
I have looked at Mr Hs bank statements from the months prior to his application. I am not 
saying Zopa had to do this but its one way it could have got a better understanding of Mr Hs 
finances.
They confirm  as Zopa was already aware from its credit check  that Mr H was spending in 
the region of £960 a month, a significant percentage of his income, on his existing credit 
commitments. They also show that Mr Hs finances were already under pressure and he was 
struggling to manage his money. And this loan was not for debt consolidation, but for 
wedding costs. He was consistently overdrawn on both his current accounts, incurring daily 
overdraft fees, and did not have the disposable income Zopa assumes (between £421 and 
£521) in its most recent correspondence. Had it completed better checks, I dont see that it 
could fairly argue that further increasing Mr Hs debt level and monthly expenditure on credit 
was not creating a risk that he would need to borrow to repay, or suffer other adverse 
financial consequences. And to meet its obligations it needed to check this  not just the 
pounds and pence affordability of  the loan: CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
Mr H went on to have problems repaying the loan in the first few months of its term. 
It follows I think Zopa was wrong to give the loan to Mr H.
I havent found Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
 
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
If there is outstanding debt that Zopa has sold it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Zopa is not able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr H made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Zopa should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Zopa 
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to deduct tax from this interest. Zopa should give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. Zopa Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman