DRN-1606433
The complaint
Mr H has an ISA with Skipton Building Society. His accounts are managed by Miss D, who 
has power of attorney for Mr H's financial affairs. She complained on his behalf that:
The maturity date for his ISA is wrong, it should have matured in April 2019 but it 
matured a month later, so ran for five years and one month, not the five years it was 
taken out for. 
The ISA was rolled over into a one year ISA without consent. 
Mr H didn't receive any interest on his ISA between 2014 and 2015. 
Skipton has sent correspondence directly to Mr H for his ISA when it should have 
been sent to her. And on checking with Mr H it didn't arrive with him so post has gone 
astray. 
 
What happened
Miss D opened a ISA for Mr H on 16 April 2014 with a deposit of £5,940. A further deposit 
was made on 21 July 2014 of £9,060 bringing the total ISA investment to £15,000.
In 2019 Miss D complained to Skipton about the administration of Mr H's ISA and two bond 
accounts. Skipton considered the complaint. It apologised that correspondence had been 
incorrectly sent to Mr H. It said this was the result of an error which has since been rectified. 
It explained that the ISA had a maturity date of 16 May 2019 even if this meant the ISA ran 
for slightly longer than five years - the offering had a set maturity date regardless of when it 
was taken out. It also said that before the ISA matured it wrote to Miss D explaining the 
options and that if it didn't hear back the ISA would be rolled over into a one-year fixed ISA; 
and this was done in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. It 
nevertheless offered Miss D the opportunity to withdraw or transfer Mr H's ISA penalty free. 
Our investigator was satisfied Skipton had already fairly resolved Mr H's complaint. Miss D 
asked for the matter to be reviewed. She remains concerned the maturity date is incorrect, 
Mr H hadn't been paid interest from the correct date because of when Skipton had recorded 
the receipt of cheques, and is unhappy the ISA rolled over into a new 1-year ISA without 
consent.  She also remains confused over the addition of interest and that in the first year 
this was recorded as 'nil'. Although Miss D had also raised concerns about Mr H's bond 
accounts, she has now withdrawn those complaints.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has raised a number of concerns about how Mr H's account has been administered. 
These are very similar to the concerns she raised on another complaint which I have already 
considered, and so she shouldn't be surprised if my findings are the same or similar where 
the same or similar arguments have been made.  I do understand Miss D feels very strongly about this complaint. But I can only uphold it if I 
find Skipton has done something wrong, or it hasn't already taken sufficient steps to put 
matters right. 
Interest on the ISA
Skipton has confirmed the amount of interest that was applied to Mr H's ISA in the first year 
was £412.32. This is made up of £12.21 for 25 days investment of £5,940 to 16 May 2015, 
plus £400.11 representing 365 days of interest on £5,940 to May 2015 and 298 days of 
interest to the additional investment of £9,060 made in July 2014. I'm satisfied interest has 
been correctly applied from when the cheques were cleared to earn interest. 
Miss D is also concerned she has been sent information to show Mr H's account didn't earn 
interest for the 2014/2015 tax year. I understand Miss D's confusion. But this is caused by 
the tax year being different to the date annual interest is added to the account. As the 
anniversary of the account is 16 May, interest is added on that date (as per the terms). So 
the statement correctly shows no interest added for the 2014/2015 tax year as the interest 
was added on 16 May 2015, in the next tax year. However, as set out above, I'm satisfied 
the correct amount of interest was added on 16 May 2015 and so the ISA did earn interest 
for the first year it was invested. 
The maturity date of the ISA
Miss D applied for Mr H's ISA on 16 April 2014. The ISA was a five-year fixed-rate ISA. I can 
understand why Miss D believed the ISA would mature on 15 April 2019 - this is not only five 
years after the ISA was applied for, but was also in the literature she has about the ISA. 
However, that the ISA is a five-year ISA doesn't always mean the investment will mature 
exactly five years later. Many institutions offer products with a set end date that might mean 
the product ends shortly after a strict application of a time period. The literature that Miss D 
was given, was for an ISA Skipton had on offer from 17 March 2014 and had a set maturity 
date of 15 April 2014 - longer than the five years given in the title of the product. 
Skipton has told us the ISA on offer from 17 March 2014 was withdrawn on 16 April 2014 
(although other information suggests it might originally have been on offer for longer). So 
when Miss D applied for Mr H's ISA, he was placed into the next product which had been 
available from 28 March 2014 and had a set maturity date of 16 May 2019. Given the 
product maturing on 15 April 2019 was no longer available, I don't think Skipton has done 
anything wrong - the maturity date for the ISA was 16 May 2019 as per its terms and 
conditions. 
I accept Miss D has, somehow, been given the wrong terms and conditions. That is 
unfortunate, and likely as a result of the application being made on the same day the 
previous product was withdrawn. I also accept this has resulted in much of Miss D's 
confusion about the correct maturity date of Mr H's ISA. But I can't ignore that all annual 
statements have shown the maturity date of 16 May 2019 and so I'm satisfied she has been 
aware of this for some considerable time. 
Rollover into a 1 year fixed-rate ISA
Miss D complains that Mr H's ISA was rolled over into a 1 year fixed-rate ISA without her 
consent. I disagree. On 25 April 2019 she was written to by Skipton for instructions for the 
maturity proceeds of Mr H's ISA (contrary to the investigator's findings this was correctly 
addressed to Miss D). I'm satisfied this was correctly sent to Miss D and so I find, in the 
absence of persuasive evidence that it most likely went astray, was correctly delivered.  This letter explained that as per the terms and conditions of the ISA, unless instructions were 
received to the contrary, the ISA would be rolled over. 
I'm satisfied Miss D was given sufficient opportunity to provide alternative instructions to 
Skipton. By not replying she did, effectively, give her consent to the ISA rollover. I therefore 
find no basis on which to uphold this part of the complaint. I also note that Skipton did offer 
to allow a withdrawal or transfer of the ISA without penalty, which is fair. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I'm satisfied that where things have gone 
wrong Skipton has already fairly resolved matters. It follows that I don't uphold this complaint 
and I make no award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman