DRN-4275880
The complaint
Mr R complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited (Profile) gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer one of his pension plans with a provider Ill refer to as provider R to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) plan with a provider Ill refer to as provider S.
Mr R is represented in his complaint. While Ill only refer to him in my decision, Id like to 
make the following point.
Mr Rs representative made a complaint on his behalf that included a number of incorrect 
allegations about Profile. It would be helpful if in future Mr Rs representative could ensure 
that each of the complaint points it raises are actually relevant to the individual complaint it is 
making at the time. 
What happened
I understand that Profile initially contacted Mr R to ask him if he wanted to have a pension 
review. Mr R agreed. 
The evidence shows that Profile carried out some investigations into Mr Rs existing pension 
plans in the early part of 2014. This included a comparison of pension plan providers in 
February 2014. This showed that at a proposed retirement age of 65, and allowing for 
Profiles initial advice charge, Mr R would potentially achieve better benefits with provider S 
than he would if he stayed with provider R. 
On 3 June 2014, Profile carried out a fact find with Mr R. It discussed Mr Rs existing 
pension plans with him and assessed his Attitude to Risk (ATR). 
The fact find recorded the following information about Mr R:
Retirement planning was the only important issue for him. Although a full financial 
review was recommended, Mr R only wanted a pension review. 
He was divorced with no dependants. And in good health.
He was employed.
He had a target retirement age of 60. But didnt know what income he required in 
todays terms.
Profile said it discussed the benefits of transferring Mr Rs pension to provider S, including 
the associated risks of doing so, the initial charges for switching and the ongoing fees, 
including the ongoing service fee. Profile also sent Mr R a Suitability Letter dated 3 June 
2014. 
The Suitability Letter stated that Profile had discussed Mr Rs understanding of financial 
services products. And had established that although he had previous pension investment 
experience, he wasnt receiving regular investment advice. It said Mr Rs prime objective 
was: to review his existing Pension contract(s) in order to assess whether it would be 
appropriate to transfer the benefits. And that he particularly wanted Profile to investigate a 
transfer which would provide:
A reduction in your existing fees and charges
Greater flexibility and options
Fund choices which meet your current circumstances and are aligned to your attitude to 
risk and will gradually move into lower risk investments as you approach your selected 
retirement date
The Suitability Letter noted that Mr R had five pension plans with provider R. Due to the 
guarantees one of these policies provided, and the poor transfer values offered for three of 
the others, Profile recommended that these four plans were left with provider R. But it 
recommended that the fifth policy be transferred to provider S. It said this was for the 
following reasons: 
The current annual management charge for the fifth plan was 1% each year. But Mr 
R said he didnt receive much for this fee. He told Profile hed not received any 
pension advice for many years. And agreed that it was important that his funds 
remained invested in line with his ATR and retirement objectives. Profile said Mr R 
could benefit from significantly lower charges if he transferred to provider S. And that 
even with an ongoing advice charge for Profile of 0.3%, the total annual charge 
would then be 0.68% each year. But it would then be able to review Mr Rs ATR 
annually to ensure his investments remained suitable for his needs.
Provider S could provide a range of funds targeted to match Mr Rs medium ATR. 
Although fund performance with provider R had been reasonably good, the 
recommended investment strategy would move Mr Rs investment into lower risk 
funds as he approached his selected retirement date, which was appealing to him. 
Provider S could provide Mr R with online access to his pension. Profile would also 
provide Mr R with regular updates on his pension. And with other more general areas 
of financial planning.
The Suitability Letter confirmed that Profile would charge Mr R an initial fee of 4.13% of the 
amount transferred, which would be around £1,635, to meet the costs and implementation of 
its recommendation. And stated that the illustration it had provided showed the effects of the 
initial fee on Mr Rs projected benefits. Profile also sent Mr R a Key Features Document. It 
also stated that the ongoing adviser charge would be 0.3% of the value of Mr Rs pension 
plan with provider S. 
The transfer to provider S completed in June 2014. £39,528.68 was invested in balanced 
funds on Mr Rs behalf. And £1,632.53 was paid to Profile for the initial adviser charges. 
I understand that Mr R appointed a new Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) with effect from 
13 November 2015, with an increased ongoing advice charge of 0.4%. And that provider S 
informed Profile that it had been removed as Mr Rs IFA on 2 December 2015.
I also understand that Profile again became Mr Rs adviser on his pension with provider S 
with effect from 8 February 2017. But that it was removed again with effect from 31 March 
2017, when a new adviser was appointed. The evidence shows that the new adviser 
amended the ongoing annual charge to 1% with effect from October 2017. That adviser was also removed from Mr Rs PP with provider S with effect from 9 September 2020, so the plan 
became self-administered.
I understand that Mr R took the final benefits from his plan on 28 July 2022. 
In 2022, Mr R felt that the advice was unsuitable. And that it hadnt taken account of his 
circumstances at the time of the advice. So he complained to Profile through his 
representative. He also brought his complaint to this service. Mr R made the following 
complaint points:
He shouldnt have been advised to transfer his Personal Pension (PP) plan with 
provider R to a SIPP with provider S. He felt hed been induced to transfer his PP to 
provider S with the promise of higher growth than he would achieve with provider R. 
The SIPP wasnt suitable for him as he wasnt a high earner.
His investment experience and objectives, his ATR and his capacity for loss werent 
assessed. 
He felt hed suffered a loss on the value of his pension.
It was alleged that Mr Rs pension had been invested in high-risk unregulated 
overseas property investment. 
When our investigator asked Profile for its complaint file, it said it hadnt yet received a 
complaint request on behalf of Mr R. So it hadnt replied to him. It asked for a copy of the 
complaint to be shared with it. 
Mr R said he wasnt aware that he might have cause for complaint until his representative 
had contacted him regarding a potential claim. 
Profile didnt give its consent for this service to review the complaint. 
Profile told this service it wouldnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had assessed Mr Rs 
investment experience, ATR and capacity for loss. And that Mr R had agreed with the 
assessment. 
Profile also said that Mr R had discussed his personal and financial circumstances with it 
during the call on 3 June 2014. It said it hadnt recommended Mr R transfer his other four 
policies with provider R. Nor had it recommended that he transfer the benefits from his 
former Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). 
Profile acknowledged that it hadnt reviewed Mr Rs assets and liabilities as part of its advice. 
But said that itd explored the impact of Mr R losing his pension, or it falling in value, as part 
of its capacity for loss discussions.
Profile said that it had discussed Mr Rs investment objectives with him. It said his prime 
objective was reviewing his existing pension plans with provider R. And that he wanted to 
pay low charges, but receive an ongoing advice service, which hed never had in the past. It 
said Mr R had been paying fees of 1% each year with provider A. But that the total fees with 
provider S, including an annual charge of 0.3% for ongoing advice, were 0.68% each year. It 
also said its charges were fully explained in its Suitability Letter.
Profile said it had discussed the performance of Mr Rs existing schemes with him. It said hed said he wanted his pension to have greater flexibility and options in retirement. And that 
he wanted regular updates on his pension. He also wanted to invest in a fund that would 
meet his current circumstances and ATR but would gradually move him into lower risk 
investments as he approached retirement. It also said that Mr R had agreed that a lower to 
medium risk portfolio would best suit his needs, which was why it had recommended the 
Balanced Governed Investment Strategy with provider S. It said it had fully explained to Mr R 
the risks associated with this investment and that there were no guarantees of future returns. 
And that the investments were simply a mixture of bond and equities, not complex or non-
mainstream.
Profile didnt agree with Mr R that either his SIPP, or the investments thatd been 
recommended for him, werent suitable for his needs and objectives. It said that his SIPP 
was simply a PP plan, which wasnt an expensive or complex contract. And that both met his 
requirements. It also said that Mr Rs SIPP was invested in the cheapest and simplest form 
of investment. Profile said that the allegation that Mr R had been invested in a high-risk 
unregulated overseas property investment wasnt correct. 
Regarding ongoing pension reviews, Profile said that Mr R had received a suitability 
assessment on 13 August 2015. It said hed thought the pension was performing well and 
had declined the review.
Profile said it wasnt able to assess whether Mr R had suffered a loss on the value of his 
pension, as it hadnt been the servicing agent for him for some time. And didnt have access 
to his PP details. It also said that at no point in its recommendations did it guarantee the 
value of Mr Rs pension with provider S would grow at a higher rate than his previous 
pension with provider R. It said that it had specifically stated in its Suitability Letter that past 
performance was no guarantee of future returns and investment values could go down as 
well as up.
Profile asked this service to consider whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction. It said 
that the advice had been provided more than six years ago. So it felt it may have been 
brought out of time. 
Our investigator said she had no evidence that Mr R had become aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of cause for complaint more than three years before his 
complaint. Therefore she felt that the complaint was one this service could consider.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Profile had failed to 
assess Mr Rs capacity for loss alongside its assessment of his ATR. She acknowledged 
that the ongoing charges under the recommended arrangement were lower than those with 
the existing plan. But didnt think that there was enough time for Mr R to make up for the cost 
of the initial advice. She also didnt think that the projected pension illustration had shown 
the effect of the initial advice charge. 
To put things right, our investigator felt that Profile should put Mr R back into the position he
would likely have been in, had it not been for the unsuitable advice. She felt Mr R wouldve 
stayed with invested in the managed fund with provider R. 
Mr R accepted our investigators view. 
Profile didnt accept the view. It made the following points: 
Regarding whether the complaint should be time-barred, it said that it had carried out 
an annual review call for Mr R on 13 August 2015. But that as Mr R had felt the pension was performing well, hed declined the review. It said that as it had 
subsequently been removed as Mr Rs pension advisers later in 2015, except for a 
brief period in 2017, it couldnt provide any evidence about whether thered been any 
drop in fund value which wouldve alerted Mr R of a potential complaint. 
Regarding the merits of the complaint, Profile said that it had provided focused 
advice, at Mr Rs request, to only review his pensions. As the advice was simply on 
existing arrangements, with no new monies being invested, it didnt consider that 
expenditure versus income was relevant in this case. It said this was because in this 
case, such information wouldve had little bearing on the suitability of the advice.
Profile said that as Mr R had no plans to invest new money into his pension plans, 
and as he had around ten years to invest his existing pension funds, his capacity for 
loss was a less important factor than his ATR. It said this was because he didnt plan 
to access this money for around ten years or more. And his capacity for loss would 
change as he approached his estimated retirement age. It also said it had full 
information about Mr Rs other pension arrangements which were also to be used for 
his retirement. And that his immediate goal had been to get a better level of service 
and reduce charges for the potential of better income from these plans.
Profile didnt agree with our investigator that its projected pension illustration hadnt 
shown the effect of its initial advice charge. It said that the illustration had included 
the initial adviser charge and the ongoing adviser charges. 
Profile carried out an estimated loss assessment. It compared its calculation of the 
notional value of the pension with provider R as of 5 April 2023 (£57,687) with its 
calculation, allowing for the deduction of its initial fee of £1,632.53, of the notional 
value of the pension with provider S as at 5 April 2023 (£58,739). It said it didnt have 
access to a true current value or whether Mr R had taken his pension benefits. Profile 
said its assessment showed that Mr R was better off by £1,051 because of its advice. 
Our investigator considered Profiles points, but still felt that the complaint the complaint was 
one this service could consider. She also still felt that it should be upheld. She still 
considered that the transfer hadnt clearly been of much benefit to Mr R. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the loss assessment Profile had carried out was 
accurate. She said this service would normally expect a business to get exact calculations 
from the relevant providers to assess whether there was a financial loss. So she didnt feel 
that she could be confident that an accurate assessment would also show no loss. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 18 July 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that this is a 
complaint we can consider. But I dont agree that the transfer wasnt suitable. I consider that 
there were enough reasons that the transfer would be beneficial to Mr R to make the advice 
suitable. I know my decision will disappoint Mr R. Ill explain my reasons for it. 
I first considered whether this complaint is one this service can consider.
Is this a complaint we can consider?I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons, that Mr R first became aware that he 
had cause for complaint when he was contacted by his representative. 
I acknowledge why Profile is unable to provide any evidence to support its claim that Mr Rs 
complaint might be out of this services jurisdiction. It said this was because it had been 
removed as Mr Rs servicing agent with provider S for most of the time since 2015, therefore 
it couldnt identify if a fall in his pension value shouldve made Mr R aware that he had cause 
to complain more than three years before he actually did. 
But Ive not been provided with any evidence that shows Mr R ought reasonably to have 
become aware that he had cause to complain before his representative contacted him. 
In the absence of any evidence that Mr R ought reasonably to have become aware that he 
had cause to complain more than three years before he actually complained to Profile, I 
cant reasonably conclude that the complaint is out of this services jurisdiction. Therefore Im 
satisfied that this service can consider the merits of the complaint. Ive gone on to consider 
those merits.
Was the transfer suitable?
Ive considered the documentary evidence from the time of sale, including the fact find, 
Suitability Letter and Profiles telephone discussion with Mr R. 
Ive also taken into consideration the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 2009 report and 
checklist for pension switching, as its still applicable. The checklist identified four main areas 
where consumers had lost out: 
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) 
or the right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded ATR and 
personal circumstances.
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Our investigator felt that the adviser shouldnt have recommended the transfer, But I dont 
agree. Ill explain why.
In order for this service to conclude that the advice to transfer was in the consumers best 
interests, wed have to consider that there was reasonable potential for the consumer to be 
better off to make the advice suitable.
In this case, Profile provided illustrations which showed that a comparison was made 
between the pension with provider R and the one it was recommending with provider S. The 
comparison showed that, even when the initial advice charge was taken into account, a 
transfer to provider S was likely to result in a largely pension fund for Mr R at his retirement, 
than the alternative of leaving his pension with provider R. 
In any event, Mr R wanted other things from his pension provider than he was getting from provider R. He wanted regular pension advice so that he could ensure that his funds 
remained invested in line with his ATR and retirement objectives. He also wanted more 
regular updates from his provider, which online access would help him to achieve. Profiles 
recommendation would meet these requirements, as its ongoing advice would provide Mr R 
with regular updates on his pension. He also wanted his investment to be moved into lower 
risk funds as he approached retirement.
Although there was a significant initial advice charge of 4.13% of the funds being transferred, 
Mr R benefitted from significantly lower annual charges with provider S. These totalled 
0.38%, rather than the 1% he was being charged by provider R. Therefore, over the ten 
years Mr R expected to remain invested, the lower future charges would more than offset the 
initial advice charge. 
I acknowledge that when Profiles annual ongoing advice charge of 0.3% is also taken into 
account, the total annual charge then increases to 0.68% each year. And the 0.32% annual 
saving then isnt quite sufficient to offset the initial advice charge. But the ongoing advice 
service was an additional service that Mr R said he wanted, valued and hadnt received 
before. From what Ive seen, the cost of the service was clearly explained to Mr R. And he 
was happy to pay the charge to ensure that his investments remained suitable for his needs.
Although Mr Rs representative complains that Profile induced him to transfer his PP to 
provider S with the promise of higher growth than he would achieve with provider R, Ive 
found no evidence that it did. I say this because Profile stated in its Suitability Letter that 
fund performance with provider R had been reasonably good, but that the recommended 
investment strategy would move Mr Rs investment into lower risk funds as he approached 
his selected retirement date. This was accurate. It was also something which appealed to Mr 
R, and which Ive seen no evidence was available with provider R at the time of the advice.
I also note that during the telephone call between Profile and Mr R, he stated the following: 
Thats the reason Im transferring. Because I wasnt looked after by [provider R]. I didnt 
receive a statement from them annually, only since Ive been dealing with transferring my 
pension have they started to send me a statement.
Profile then explained that it was recommending the transfer to provider S for the following 
reasons. It said: I have to look at charges, investment performance, whether its suitable for 
your ATR and the service youve been getting. Youve said no service. The annual 
management charge is 1% each year.  It then went on to explain that Mr R could pay 
significantly lower annual fees if he transferred, even if he also paid 0.3% annually for an 
ongoing advice service. 
Profile then clearly stated during the call that the initial charges also had to be considered. 
These were a standalone fee of 4.13%, or £1,635 for implementing the recommendation. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the investment was suitable for Mr R at the time it was 
recommended. I say this because the recommended investment matched Mr Rs ATR. And 
provided him with the type of de-risking as he approached his selected retirement age that 
he valued. The recommendation also ensured Mr R paid lower annual charges for the period 
to retirement than he wouldve paid if hed stayed with provider R. Had he not also wanted to 
take Profiles offer of an ongoing advice service, Im satisfied that the annual charge savings 
wouldve more than offset the initial advice cost if Mr R had retired at his selected retirement 
age. 
Ive also found no evidence that Profiles advice led to any of the four points listed on the 
FCA checklist.I consider that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to assume that Mr R didnt value the ongoing 
advice Profile offered him for an annual charge of 0.3%. I say this because if he hadnt 
valued it, he wouldnt have agreed to take the advice and pay the charge.  
I acknowledge that Mr R considers that the SIPP wasnt suitable for him as he wasnt a high 
earner. But I dont agree. Im satisfied that the SIPP was simply a PP that allowed Mr R to 
get the information he wanted for his pension. And which provided him with appropriate and 
cost-effective investment choices which matched his ATR. 
I also acknowledge that Mr R feels that his investment experience and objectives, his ATR 
and his capacity for loss werent assessed. But I cant fairly agree. I say this because the 
evidence shows that Mr Rs investment experience and objectives were fairly discussed. 
And his ATR was properly assessed. And while I acknowledge that his capacity for loss 
wasnt directly considered, I agree with Profile that this was much less significant under the 
circumstances that a proper assessment of Mr Rs ATR. Profile was going to review his 
position on an annual basis, so it could assess how his ATR and capacity for loss might 
change as he approached his selected retirement age. I also agree with Profiles point in the 
Suitability Letter, that: As the funds to be invested will be met via a transfer of existing 
benefits, affordability is not an issue.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr R has suffered a loss on the value of his pension due to 
Profiles advice. Therefore I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
Profile had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman