DRN-2251341
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly withdrew a 
promotional interest rate after he completed a balance transfer.
 
What happened
Mr R applied for a new credit card with Barclaycard and was approved. The credit card was 
opened on 17 October 2018 and had a 30 month 0% promotional interest rate. Barclaycards 
terms say that if a payment isnt received on time it can withdraw the promotional interest 
rate. 
On 18 October 2018 a balance transfer of £12,188.57 was completed. Barclaycard sent Mr 
R a statement asking him to make a minimum payment of £275.30 by 12 December 2018. 
Mr Rs December 2018 payment was missed and Barclaycard applied a late payment fee of 
£12 and removed the promotional interest rate.
On 19 December 2018 Mr R used his online account to set up a direct debit mandate. 
Barclaycard says it wrote to Mr R to confirm his first direct debit would be collected in 
January 2019. 
In February 2020 Mr R found he was being charged interest and contacted Barclaycard. On 
10 February 2020 Mr R discussed his account with a representative and they agreed to 
refund £1,118.80, 50% of the interest he had paid, as a gesture of goodwill. Mr R 
complained and asked for the remaining interest to be refunded to him. Barclaycard declined 
and Mr R referred his complaint to our service. 
The case was passed to an investigator. He thought Barclaycards offer was fair and didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Mr R asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it was Mr Rs intention was to make all his monthly payments and take 
advantage of the 0% promotional interest rate on his credit card. But I can only uphold a 
complaint if I find that a business has made an error or treated its customer unfairly. Ive 
focused on whether Barclaycard made a mistake by removing the promotional interest rate 
and whether its treated him fairly. 
Mr R opened the account on 17 October 2018 and a balance transfer went through the next 
day. On 13 November 2018 Barclaycard sent Mr R a statement saying that he needed to 
pay £275.30 by 12 December 2018. At this point, there was no direct debit instruction in 
place. Barclaycard has provided systems evidence to show a direct debit instruction was 
input by Mr R on 19 December 2018 using the online facility. But by that point, hed already 
missed his first payment and the promotional rate had been withdrawn. 
Barclaycards terms and conditions dont require account holders to have a direct debit in 
place as theres a range of options available for making payments. And, as Ive said above, 
Mr R had already missed his first payment and lost out on the promotional rate before he 
entered his direct debit instruction. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard did send him the required statement information and that his first payment was 
missed. 
The credit card terms say that a late fee can be applied and promotional rate removed if a 
customer misses a payment. As Barclaycard has acted in line with the terms, I havent found 
an error has been made. 
Barclaycard refunded £1,110.80, representing 50% of the interest Mr R unknowingly paid. 
Barclaycard says that was a gesture of goodwill. Whilst I understand Mr R wants the rest of 
the interest he paid to be refunded, Im satisfied there was no error by Barclaycard and that 
its agreement to refund £1,110.80 of interest is a fair way to resolve this complaint. As Im 
satisfied Barclaycard has dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman