DRN-4139339
The complaint
Mr C complains Metro Bank PLCs approach to strong customer authentication means he 
cant make online purchases unless he has a mobile phone, landline or a similar device. He 
complains that this is discriminatory and exclusionary and that customers shouldnt be 
coerced into using mobile phones or devices that arent free.
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Metro Bank.
In May 2022 Mr C contacted Metro Bank to say that he couldnt make online purchases 
unless he was able to receive a one-time passcode on his mobile phone or he used its 
mobile banking app. Mr C complained about this saying that he didnt want to be forced into 
using a mobile phone in order to make online purchases, or to be forced into buying a 
landline or another device so he could shop online. He said he wanted Metro Bank to send 
one-time passcodes to, for example, customer email addresses.
Metro Bank investigated Mr Cs complaint and said that it had made these changes to its 
processes in order to implement strong customer authentication and that it didnt offer any 
other options. Mr C wasnt happy with Metro Banks response, so complained to us.
Following our involvement, Metro Bank said that it had plans to introduce an alternative way 
of authenticating that didnt involve mobile phones  namely sending one-time passcodes to 
landlines  and it offered Mr C £250 in compensation for the trouble hed been caused. 
Metro Bank did so in November 2022.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said that they thought Metro 
Banks overall response, including its offer of £250 in compensation, was fair and 
reasonable. Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into this complaint. So, 
thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C complained to Metro Bank in May 2022 that he wasnt able to shop online unless he 
used a mobile phone because Metro Bank was saying he needed to authenticate using a 
one-time passcode sent to a mobile phone or through its mobile banking app. Mr C 
complained that this was discriminatory and exclusionary and that customers shouldnt be 
coerced into using mobile phones or devices that arent free. He said Metro Bank should be 
willing to send one-time passcodes to customer email addresses, for example.
Metro Bank has told us that it made changes to online banking and shopping in order to 
implement new regulations that came into effect in September 2019  namely the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These regulations required payment service providers 
(PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those 
circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in 
that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The changes that Metro Bank made to its processes  and its reliance on 
mobile phones or a piece of technology that its customers would have to pay for rather than 
technology that is free and accessible to all  is at the heart of this complaint.
Metro Banks approach to implementing strong customer authentication
In May 2022 Metro Bank had, broadly speaking, three ways in which its customers can 
authenticate, but all of them involve at one stage or another their customer having a mobile 
number. Mr C didnt think that was fair and that he shouldnt need to invest in any device in 
order to shop online. Before I say more, it probably helps to explain what the FCA has said 
on strong customer authentication.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong customer authentication and its expectations, and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should Metro Bank have done more for Mr C when he originally complained?
Mr C has a mobile phone, but he says its an old one so he cant download any apps. More 
importantly, however, hes told us that he avoids using his mobile phone as much as 
possible and doesnt think its right that businesses like Metro Bank should be forcing people 
into using their mobile phones more and more in their every-day lives. So, Ive taken the 
papers the FCA has published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts into 
account when deciding whether or not Metro Bank should have done more when Mr C 
originally complained and whether or not its actions were fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services Regulations  in particular, 
Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Metro Bank could and should have done 
more here when Mr C originally complained. I say that because Metro Bank didnt offer non-
mobile options at the time and I dont think it was wholly unreasonable of Mr C to say that he 
wants to avoid using his mobile phone as much as possible and doesnt think its right that 
businesses like Metro Bank should be forcing people into using their mobile phones more 
and more in their every-day lives. I can see that Metro Bank does now offer options that 
dont involve using a mobile phone. For example, Metro Bank now offers the option of 
sending a one-time passcode to landlines. In some cases that might not work. But I have to 
consider Mr Cs case, and his individual circumstances. Its clear, given what hes said, that 
even though he has a mobile phone and is able to receive and use one-time passcodes sent 
to that mobile  Ive heard him do so on a call to Metro Bank  that he wants a solution that doesnt involve a device he has to pay for. That, in other words, includes using a landline to 
authenticate. In other words, he wants to be able to receive one-time passcodes by email, 
for example. I can understand why Mr C has said this, but looking at his individual 
circumstances and considering everything else Ive mentioned above, I dont think I can say 
Metro Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Putting things right
Metro Bank agreed  following our involvement  that it could have done more in this case 
and offered to pay Mr C £250 in compensation to reflect this. I agree with our investigator 
that the steps Metro Bank has taken are fair and reasonable. So, thats what Im going to 
require Metro Bank to do. Mr C can decide whether or not he wants to accept  if he does, 
Metro Banks offer will become legally binding.
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC has offered to pay Mr C £250 in compensation to settle this complaint and 
is introducing an alternative way of authenticating that didnt involve mobile phones. I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr C £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman