DRN-2767263
The complaint
Mr and Mr G complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) didnt apply their mortgage payments 
properly following a rate switch. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G hold a buy to let mortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). They 
were on a two-year fixed rate of 2.49% until 31 January 2021. Their direct debits were set up 
for the 6th of each month.
On 17 December 2020 TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs G letting them know their current deal was 
ending and how to switch onto a new rate.
Mr and Mrs G applied for a new two-year fixed rate of 2.99%. They accepted TMWs offer 
dated 23 December 2020. The new rate was to commence from 1 February 2021. 
TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs G on 1 February 2021 to confirm the rate switch had taken place 
and their new contractual monthly payment would be £173.82.
Mr and Mrs G complain that £304.63 was collected in February. Whilst they appreciate that 
Marchs payment was adjusted to £43.01 to account for the overpayment, they say that 
TMW had sufficient time to update their systems to not be overcharged in February. 
TMW says that it must provide notice of the new payment before it can collect it from a 
customers bank. If the monthly payment is due within the first 7 working days of the month 
of the product switch, then that doesnt allow enough time for notice to be given and the 
change to take place.  
Unhappy with TMWs response, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that TMW 
followed the correct process and gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient notice of how payments 
would be taken during the rate switch process. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept what the investigator said. In summary they said that they didnt 
receive the letters from TMW outlining how their payments would be affected and they cant 
see how this process ties in to the direct debit regulations. They also say that TMWs 
process has a wider impact as theyre unfairly making money out of their customers. They 
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the direct debit guarantee if there are any changes to the amount, date or frequency 
of a direct debit, the organisation must notify the customer (normally 10 working days) in 
advance of their account being debited. 
The monthly payments provided in the mortgage offer are just an estimate. Section 6 of the 
offer says:
The actual payments you will make will vary slightly from those shown above, as they will 
be based on the mortgage balance, including the fees that are shown in Section 8 as being 
added to your mortgage, on the date that the mortgage switches, and the term remaining 
from that date.
TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs G to confirm the rate switch had taken place on 1 February 2021 
and to let them know what their new contractual payments would be. It could not confirm this 
sooner for the reasons explained in the offer letter. 
Because of the proximity of the rate switch and direct debit date, this didnt allow enough 
notice of the change in payment amounts in line with the direct debit guarantee 
requirements. 
Im satisfied TMW provided Mr and Mrs G with sufficient notice about how payments would 
work during the product switch period. I say this because each of the letters sent in the lead 
up to the switch made reference to it. 
The letter dated 17 December 2020 said:
Some important info about switching (if you pay early in the month)
If you do decide to switch, well do our best to bring you on to your new rate in time for your 
first payment  though this might not be possible if its due within the first seven working 
days of the month. In this case, well simply collect your first payment at the managed rate  
then the following month, well change your payment to your newly switched rate, adjusting it 
to make up for any overpayment made in that first month.
Alternatively, you can push back your regular direct debit payment to later in the month   -
giving us enough time to move you on to your new rate. To do it this way, please let us know 
by the 10th of January and well arrange this for you.
The offer letter dated 23 December 2020 said:
The mortgage switch will take place on the 1st of the month, and when this happens we will 
calculate your new monthly payment based on the balance of the mortgage at that time. To comply 
with BACS regulations, we must provide you with notice of the new payment before we can collect 
it from your bank. If your monthly payment is due within the first 7 working days of the month of the 
product switch, we will not be able to provide notification of a revised monthly payment in time for 
your first payment collection after the switch of your mortgage. As a result, the payment due 
following the completion of your product switch will be at the follow-on rate as detailed under the 
terms of your existing mortgage and an adjustment made in the following months payment to reflect 
any under or overpayment in that first month.
The rate switch letter dated 1 February 2021 also confirmed:
In order to give due notice of the change in monthly payments, we must delay the update of 
the payment until the calendar month after the change has become effective. Consequently, 
there will be an interim payment of £43.01 due in 06 March 2021 followed by regular monthly 
payments of £173.82 from 06April 2021.
Based on the above I cant say TMW has done anything wrong in the circumstances. I say 
this because TMW gave notice of how payments would work, in line with the direct debit guarantee requirements and its communication was clear, fair and not misleading. It also 
acted fairly and reasonably by providing an alternative if the standard payment 
arrangements didnt suit Mr and Mrs G. 
Mr and Mrs G say the only letter they received was the rate switch letter dated 1 February 
2021. I can see that all letters mentioned were sent to their home address registered with 
TMW. I cant hold TMW responsible for lost mail as its not responsible for the safe delivery 
of the mail. 
Either way I dont think Mr and Mrs G have lost out as a result. The combined amount 
debited from their account in February and March wasnt any more than they were 
contractually expected to pay. And they havent told us theyve suffered any consequences 
as a result of the higher payment being taken in February. 
When I discussed the case over the phone with Mr G he asked for evidence that the rate 
switch actually took place on 1 February 2021. Our investigator has provided a screenshot 
from TMWs system to confirm this. 
Mr and Mrs G have mentioned the wider impact TMWs processes may have on its customer 
population. Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses, so its not my role to tell TMW 
how to set up its lending policies and procedures. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). If Mr and Mrs G believe TMWs set up is fundamentally flawed and requires
changing, they would need to raise their concerns with the FCA. My role is to decide if TMW
applied its policies and procedures fairly in the circumstances of this case. Having
considered everything, I find that it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman