DRN-3880440
The complaint
Ms T complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In November 2018 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £3,000 for Ms T, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £256 per month over a term of 36 months. It would 
seem that the loan was intended to consolidate other debts.
When assessing the applications, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Ms Ts financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It would appear that Ms T had some difficulties maintaining the repayments on the account 
at times, but ultimately that she found a way to settle the loan successfully.
When Ms T complained to it, Everyday Loans didnt accept it had done anything wrong. So 
she brought her case to this service. The adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have given Ms T this loan, but it doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to 
review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Ms T would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Ms T needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loans to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Ms T about her income and expenditure; reviewed copies of bank 
statements; and carried out a credit check when considering her loan application. Im 
satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Ms T, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for her, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
The adjudicator thought that the remaining amount of disposable income Ms T had, once 
all her financial commitments had been taken into account, was concerningly small at 
around £55, and that Everyday Loans should not therefore have lent to her.
Everyday Loans refuted that, highlighting that, There is no set figure that is an acceptable 
amount of disposable income. 
Everyday Loans is quite correct in saying that, of course. And in some instances, being left 
with only a very modest amount of money after meeting all bills may not automatically 
mean that any further borrowing is unaffordable and unsustainable.
However, in this case, I agree with the adjudicator that it was a problem. Ms Ts 
circumstances indicated some level of sustained financial challenges, including three 
defaulted accounts the year before this lending was approved. In addition, it would seem 
that Ms T had two dependent children. Whilst Everyday Loans appears to have factored 
Ms Ts dependents into estimated living expenses as part of its income and expenditure 
assessment (I&E), I think that having responsibility for children places potentially 
significant additional strains on income, particularly over the 36-month term of this loan. 
Inevitably, growing children bring ad hoc expenses  such as needing new clothes and 
shoes.
I can also see from the bank statements Everyday Loans reviewed that Ms T relied on a 
large overdraft, and in the run up to this loan being granted was borrowing significant 
amounts from other high-cost lenders. Indeed, it is that borrowing that seems to keep her 
within her agreed overdraft limit, which itself represented about half of Ms Ts monthly 
income. The evidence on this file is clear: that Ms T was reliant on borrowing just to exist. 
Whilst I accept the purpose of this loan was to reconsolidate some of her other debt, 
Everyday Lendings I&E shows that it left Ms T with less disposable income each month. 
So any hypothetical improvement in her financial situation as a result of paying off other 
creditors would have been some way in the future. And her reliance on a large overdraft 
does not appear to have been considered at all.
The information Everyday Loans decided to rely on when assessing these applications 
strongly suggested that she would need to borrow elsewhere to manage the repayments. 
As Ive already set out, that is not in line with the regulations in force at the time.
It therefore follows that the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the complaint on the 
basis that Everyday Loans assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Ms T.
Putting things right
It appears that Ms T has settled this loan. In order to put things right for her, Everyday Loans 
must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Ms T as though they had been repayments of the principal on the loan. B) If this results in Ms T having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Whilst I dont believe there is, should there still be an outstanding balance following the 
actions set out in A, then Everyday Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Ms 
T.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ts credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman