DRN-3763187
The complaint
Ms P and Mrs P complain about National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) actions whilst 
withholding money from their joint account.
What happened
In August 2020, Ms P and Mrs P noticed their accounts werent showing on their mobile 
banking application. They got in touch with Nat West to find out why and learned their 
accounts had been frozen pending a review. 
Ms P and Mrs P later found out that HMRC froze their accounts under the Proceeds of 
Crime Act 2002. The hearing was held, and the account freezing order was initially placed 
for six months. Ms P and Mrs P sought legal advice and appointed a solicitor. Around 
October 2020, HMRC advised the account freezing orders were to be set aside with no 
further action, and this was completed in December 2020. Ms P and Mrs P received the 
money which was held in the accounts around 25 January 2021.
Ms P and Mrs P brought the complaint to our service. They explained this situation caused 
significant distress as they couldnt access the money and would like compensation and their 
legal costs paid  as well as an apology from Nat West.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said Nat West were complying 
with their legal and regulatory obligations when freezing the accounts, and the money in 
them, because of the freezing orders. She didnt think Nat West had caused any undue 
delays and couldnt reasonably ask Nat West to repay legal costs as it was Ms P and 
Mrs Ps decision to appoint legal representation. Ms P and Mrs P remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to review things. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Nat West 
were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Ms P and Mrs Ps accounts. Ive 
explained further below.
Nat West will often review accounts  its their duty to ensure accounts are being used in the 
way they should be and to protect the money which is held in them. This is both in the banks 
interest and under their duty to protect their customers money. I appreciate Nat West didnt 
notify Ms P and Mrs P of their intention to review the account, but theyre not obliged to. Id 
like to reassure Ms P and Mrs P, that Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen that 
Nat Wests actions were appropriate in the circumstances.
The account was initially blocked in August 2020  which meant Ms P and Mrs P couldnt 
access their money during this time. Ive no doubt this would have had a significant impact 
on them, and Ive carefully considered their comments. However, that in itself doesnt mean 
Nat West have done anything wrong. Its sometimes appropriate for banks to limit the access 
to funds in the account  Nat West were entitled to do that in the circumstances of this 
complaint, as they were complying with their wider obligations.
Ms P and Mrs P has shared with our service that account freezing orders were applied on 
their accounts  this is one reason why our service would find a block on an account 
acceptable. I can appreciate the concern this issue caused Ms P and Mrs P; however, I do 
find it reasonable that Nat West observed the freezing orders and acted appropriately by 
keeping the account access limited. I appreciate Ms P and Mrs P sought legal representation 
on this matter, and the freezing orders were set aside in December 2020. Ms P and Mrs P 
think Nat West should reimburse them for the legal costs associated with this issue, however 
I cant fairly agree to that. Nat West were under a duty to satisfy their obligations, and they 
did so appropriately. The legal costs incurred were Ms P and Mrs Ps responsibility, and not 
associated with Nat West and therefore it wouldnt be reasonable for Nat West to pay for 
these associated costs.
I recognise the freezing orders were set aside in December 2020 and Ms P and Mrs P didnt 
receive access to the money until late January 2021. Ive reviewed the actions Nat West 
carried out during this time to see if there were any unreasonable delays. I appreciate this 
will be hard for Ms P and Mrs P to accept, especially as I cant share detailed information 
with them of what Nat West were doing during that time. Nat West has shared information 
with our service which we deem should be kept confidential, but Id like to reassure Ms P 
and Mrs P that Im satisfied Nat Wests actions were both proactive and reasonable. 
I appreciate how strongly Ms P and Mrs P feel about this situation. And Im sorry I havent 
been able to uphold the complaint in the way theyd like me to. Overall, Im satisfied 
Nat West were entitled to take the actions they did when freezing the accounts and access 
to the money. And I dont consider they caused any unreasonable or unnecessary delays 
when granting Ms P and Mrs P access in January 2021.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman