DRN-3130731
The complaint
Mrs B complains, for and on behalf of the estate of Mr B, that ReAssure Limited mis-sold the 
late Mr B a whole of life policy. She also complains about ReAssures processes and delays 
when paying the claim. 
What happened
The late Mr B took out a reviewable whole of life policy at the same time as a business loan, 
in March 1996. The initial sum assured was £10,000 and the premium was £30.75 a month. 
The policy was reviewed in line with the terms and conditions. However, whilst the sum 
assured remained the same, the value of the plan reduced. This is because Mr B continued 
to elect to pay the same monthly premium (until the 2020 policy review), despite the cost of 
the cover increasing. This meant that units had to be sold each month to cover the deficit. 
Mrs B told ReAssure of her husbands passing in December 2020. The sum assured was 
paid to the estate. Mrs B complained to ReAssure, saying that the amount was considerably 
less than Mr B had expected would be paid out if he died. She was also unhappy with the 
processes involved to claim under the policy and with how long it took. In particular, she felt 
forms were too complicated and that it was difficult to get support and answers. 
ReAssure responded to say that the information they had requested was necessary and they 
felt they had dealt with it in a timely manner. Mrs B remained unhappy and brought the 
complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator looked into it and he 
said the policy sold was suitable for Mr Bs circumstances at the time. He felt that it had been 
administered properly and he also didnt think ReAssure had been unreasonable during the 
claim process. 
Mrs B didnt agree, she said amongst other points that the policy had a residual value on top 
of the sum assured which should have been paid. As no agreement was reached, the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs B and the estate of Mr B, that I think the investigator has 
reached a fair outcome here. Ill explain why. 
Part of my role is to decide if ReAssure has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in 
recommending the policy. And I dont believe it has done so. 
I have considered the suitability of the advice to recommend a whole of life policy alongside 
a loan. In this circumstance where the liability has a fixed term, I would usually expect the 
cover sold to protect it to also have the same term. As opposed to this policy, where the 
cover lasts as long as the premiums are paid. Without an investment element, I would also 
expect such term assurance to be cheaper. However, the fact-find and recommendation 
letter both state that the term was discussed with Mr B and he preferred an indefinite term. I 
therefore cant hold ReAssure responsible for a whole of life policy being take out instead of 
term assurance. 
The cover seems to be a condition of the loan being provided to Mr B at the same time. 
However, I dont always conclude that is unfair. The customer is able to obtain borrowing 
elsewhere if they dont want to take out cover and it is prudent to recommend or ensure that 
someone protects such a debt. Because of this and that the premium was affordable for     
Mr B, I believe it was suitable for his needs at the time.  
Whilst I havent seen anything to suggest that this policy wasnt administered or reviewed 
correctly, Mrs B has complained that Mr B was misinformed. She has said that he was told 
that in the event of his death, the sum-assured and policy value would be paid out. However, 
that is not how these policies work. Only the sum-assured is paid out on death (unless the 
policy value is greater), and I believe this is made clear in the terms and conditions. Here it 
states that if the Life Assured dies the Company will pay the greater of: i) the Sum Assured; 
and ii) the value of Units. 
This is what happened in this case. The sum assured was greater than the policy value 
(approximately £5,000) and so it was this that was paid out as the death benefit. The policy 
value is what would have paid out if Mr B had surrendered the policy. Whilst I obviously have 
great empathy with Mrs B and am sure that both her and her late husband believed the 
policy would pay out more, I cant hold ReAssure responsible for that misunderstanding. The 
policy documentation is clear in my opinion and the greater benefit has been paid. It is also 
important to note that the amount Mr B was paying to maintain the sum assured wasnt 
sufficient for some time, due to the increasing cost of the life cover. There was therefore a 
benefit to the policy value with it being used to top-up the premium through unit sales. It 
meant the policy didnt lapse, so the sum assured could be paid. 
Mrs B is also unhappy with the process required to claim following the passing of her 
husband and how long it took. However, having reviewed the timeline of events, I think 
ReAssure acted fairly. They were clear at the beginning of the process what was required 
including the signature of all executors. I am sure it will have been frustrating if Mrs B 
couldnt always get an answer when she needed it until a certain member of staff took 
ownership. However, I think the claim was settled in a timely manner once everything was 
provided. 
In summary, I think the policy recommended was suitable for the late Mr Bs needs at the 
time of sale and I think it was administered correctly and paid out in line with the terms and 
conditions. I am sorry if Mrs B and the estate were expecting more, but I dont find that 
ReAssure have done anything wrong and I think they acted fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman