DRN-4138848
The complaint
C, a limited company, says Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (AJG) sold it a
professional indemnity insurance policy that didnt meet its needs.
What happened
C had a combined policy, which included professional indemnity insurance, with an insurer
(H). It was arranged by AJG on an advised basis in 2016. At renewal in March 2019 C raised
concerns about changes to the policy terms. As H wouldnt change its position on this C
asked it to obtain an alternative quote. AJG found a policy with a different insurer (A) and
confirmed this covered the activities C was carrying out. Cover was put in place and that
policy renewed in subsequent years.
In July 2021 C told AJG it was bidding for a contract and, if successful, would need to
increase its insurance cover. AJG checked whether insurers including A would be prepared
to cover this. A said it hadnt been aware from the outset of all the activities C was carrying
out (in particular fire safety consultancy). And it would therefore be cancelling the policy.
AJG tried to find alternative cover for C but was only able to find one insurer prepared to do
so and the price and terms werent acceptable. C also found a policy that would have
covered it but again the premium was too high. A's policy was cancelled with effect from
December 2021. The following year C tried to find alternative cover but wasnt able to do so
at a price it was prepared to pay and said this was because it now had to declare a
cancellation.
AJG accepted it couldnt evidence it told A about all the activities C was carrying out. So it
agreed there had been a failing on its part. But it said no claims had been made against C
relating to that. So it didnt think C had lost out as a result of what it got wrong. And it didnt
think it was responsible for the fact C was now unable to obtain insurance. That related to
changes in market conditions rather than any failing on its part. It accepted C had been
inconvenienced by its error and offered to pay £750 in recognition of that.
Our investigator agreed the policy had been mis-sold as it didnt provide the cover C
required. He also accepted the cancellation of the policy had potentially impacted the quotes
C was able to obtain in 2022. But he noted the quotes obtained prior to that being declared
werent acceptable to C and the premium represented a third of its annual turnover. He didnt
think the reason it hadnt been able to obtain insurance for all the activities it carried out was
because of what AJG got wrong.
And he thought the £750 AJG had offered fairly reflected the inconvenience C had been
caused. However, although no claims had been made against C for the period cover should
have been place and wasnt, that could still happen. He said if claims were made AJG
should appoint a loss assessor to assess the claim against the terms C thought were in
place.
AJG said this was a claims made policy and no claims had arisen during the period for which
A was on cover. If any claims were made now they would need to be considered against Cs
current professional indemnity policy; they werent ones As policy would respond to. So
there wouldnt be any action it needed to take if such a claim were made.
C provided a detailed response. In summary it said:
It didnt accept AJG needed to be wholly responsible for the loss it had suffered (as our 
investigator suggested). The issue was whether but for the failing on its part the loss 
would not have occurred.
It didnt ask AJG to find a policy with A; it was its decision to do so and it would have 
been prepared to accept the policy offered by H. AJG only gave it very limited time to 
decide between the two and it relied on assurances given by AJG in agreeing to the 
cover provided by A. If properly advised it would either have renewed with H or sought 
alternative cover elsewhere in the market.
After A said it would cancel its policy it was then unable to obtain a suitable alternative 
which included retroactive cover (other insurers said they wouldnt offer that for an 
uninsured period). It thought this was because of the failing by AJG and didnt accept this 
was because of changes in the market. AJG hadnt shown other businesses in the same 
position as it had been similarly affected.
The quote it obtained in 2021 was prior to policy cancellation but the broker was aware it 
needed urgent cover and knew there was an issue with coverage. A substantial 
proportion of the price comprised commission which it argued was charged as a 
premium on the need for it to secure coverage quickly. So that shouldnt be relied on as 
an indicator of what the market rate for this policy would be without the issues AJG 
caused.
The underlying premium was an increase on what it had previously paid but was not at a 
level which would have priced it out of the market and the policy didnt include retroactive 
cover. It thought this was because of the issues that had arisen with As policy which 
AJG was responsible for and that risk therefore formed part of the price quoted. If this 
had formed part of a standard renewal discussion on a like for like basis there would 
have been a different offer.
The impact of what AJG got wrong was clear in the quotations provided after it declared 
the cancellation of the previous policy where a premium of nearly £55,000 was quoted. It 
said but for the failings by AJG it would have had suitable insurance in place and would 
have been able to undertake both existing and future contract work in the area the 
insurance should have covered.
It said AJG were responsible for the losses it had incurred because it wasnt able to do 
that (in previous submissions it calculated the loss at over £300,000). C also said AJGs 
record keeping was poor and this should be reflected in any remedies imposed on it. The 
compensation offer AJG had made was likely less than the commission it had received 
for arranging the policy. It regarded this as an attempt to simply make the complaint go 
away and said it didnt represent a reasonable offer of compensation for the losses it 
incurred.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said
The relevant rules say those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear,
fair and not misleading information about the policy theyre selling. And for an advised sale
(like this) they need to take reasonable steps to ensure the insurance is suitable for theircustomer.
In this case I dont think its in dispute that AJG didnt meet those responsibilities. The policy
it recommended to C in 2019 (and which it took out with A) wasnt suitable for it because it
didnt cover the fire safety consultancy work C did. And AJG has accepted it cant evidence
it told A about that work.
So Im satisfied there has been a mis-sale here. Where I conclude a policy was mis-sold I
need to consider what position the consumer would have been in if there hadnt been a mis-
sale. However, while I appreciate C feels that any remedy should reflect what it sees as poor
record keeping by AJG its not our role to regulate or fine a business for their conduct (thats
the job of the Financial Conduct Authority).
What we look at are the individual complaints brought to us. So, in this case, having
established there was a failing by AJG I need to consider how thats impacted C and what, if
anything, needs to be done to put things right. I therefore agree with C that a key issue here
is whether its claimed loss has come about because of what AJG got wrong.
Ive thought first about what C would likely have done if AJG had correctly advised it. AJG
says it was Cs decision to seek alternative cover to that offered by H. And Ive seen a phone
note which supports that. But if it had been told the policy A provided didnt cover all of the
work it did I dont think it would have gone ahead with that. I think it would likely have
decided to accept the available renewal terms from H.
I appreciate C had expressed some concerns about these but I dont think the nature and
extent of those were such as to put it off taking out that policy in a situation where it clearly
needed cover to be in place. And given the limited time available for C to make a decision on
cover I think its unlikely it would have had an opportunity to find a policy elsewhere.
Our investigator said if any claims are now made which relate to the period from 2019 to
2021 AJG should appoint a loss assessor to consider them against the terms of the policy
that would have been in place (which would have been the policy provided by H).
However, I dont think it does need to do that. The policy provided by H covered claims
made against it during the period of insuranceon or after the retroactive date. And it says
we will not make any payment under this section unless you notify us of the following
promptly and within the period of insurance, or at the latest within 14 days after it expires for
any problem you first become aware of in the seven days before expiry any claim or
threatened claim against you
I understand no claims were made against C in the 2019 to 2021 period. I appreciate a claim
could still be made in future but as this was a claims made policy then under the terms of
the policy such a claim wouldnt be covered by it. It would need to be considered under any
policy that C then had in force; either as a result of renewing its cover with H or through
taking out a policy with a different provider which had a retroactive date covering that claim.
So I think the key question is whether its as a result of a failing by AJG that C doesnt have
such a policy in place. Thats relevant both to the issue of cover for any claims that might
arise and the losses C says it incurred because it was no longer able to carry out existing
and future contract work as a result of not having professional indemnity insurance which
covered this.
Ive considered whether C is likely to have had cover in place with H. I appreciate it did offer
renewal terms in 2019. And as part of our investigation H was asked whether it would have
offered renewal terms in 2021. It didnt provide a definitive answer. But it did say this was a
difficult risk and explained in relation to this we are very cautious and overly exposed riskswill be declined or non-renewed. Our appetite for these risks has tightened in recent years
and so are being looked at more carefully.
Im also mindful of the fact that when H was approached by AJG in 2021 it declined to
provide cover for the work C wanted to do. Taking that, along with the comments its made
about the difficulties of this risk for it into account, I think, on balance, its unlikely it would
have offered renewal of the policy in 2021.
That means C would always have needed to look elsewhere for alternative cover with a new
insurer at that time. So Ive gone on to think about whether it was the failing by AJG that
meant it wasnt able to obtain this at an acceptable price. I appreciate when C declared the
cancellation of its previous policy the premium quoted was around £55,000. Thats an
extremely significant increase on the last renewal quote offered by H for its policy (which
was around £1,550). The extent of that increase could suggest the issues with Cs previous
cover, including the cancellation of the policy, impacted this.
And I appreciate that amount was unaffordable for C meaning it couldnt maintain insurance
for its fire safety consultancy work. But that leaves the question as to whether, without the
failing by AJG, it would have been able to find a policy that would have covered it. I think
relevant here is the quote that C obtained prior to disclosing any information about the
cancellation of its previous policy. That quote had an annual premium of nearly £12,000 and
C decided not to go ahead because that was unacceptable for a small company.
Ive considered the points C has raised as to why this shouldnt be seen as indicative of what
the market rate for this sort of cover would have been. I dont think its in dispute that the
insurance market for the work C was doing had shown significant hardening. Commentary
from the time references many insurers leaving this market entirely or excluding cover for fire
safety consultancy from their policies. Where cover was offered premiums were increasing
to the extent that the insurance was becoming unaffordable for many firms. So I think its
clear premiums for the cover C wanted would always have increased significantly for
available policies.
I appreciate broker commission did form a reasonably substantial element of the premium
quoted in this case. But I havent seen any clear evidence to support Cs view that this was
because of the circumstances in which it found itself. It appears C was only able to find
cover by approaching a broker recommended by a professional body. Given the difficult
market conditions Ive identified it seems likely any broker would have applied a premium for
sourcing suitable cover. 
And the policy it did find didnt include retroactive cover. I think its reasonable to assume 
that any premium for a policy that did would have been even higher to reflect the increased 
risk (and that would have applied regardless of any issues with the previous policy).
C believes if this had been a renewal then the position would have been different but again I
dont think theres evidence to support that. What the available evidence does show is that
when AJG tried to obtain cover for the work C was bidding for (and prior to any issues with
As policy becoming apparent) none of the 14 insurers it approached were prepared to quote
at all. It did subsequently find one insurer prepared to provide cover for fire safety
consultancy work but with a very low cover limit of (of £100,000) and a premium of around
£10,000.
I appreciate C thinks that was influenced by the cancellation of its previous policy but the
evidence doesnt support that either. That insurer said while it did cover fire safety risk the
normal premium would be in three figures (so over £100,000) for the cover C needed. That
also suggests the premiums being quoted at this time reflected the nature of the market forthis type of cover rather than being influenced by what AJG got wrong. And C said it
regarded the premium for the lower level of cover which was offered as exorbitant and
didnt go ahead with it.
That amount was more than Cs turnover for the year ending 31 December 2021 and I
understand why that wouldnt have been affordable for it. And while I appreciate Cs turnover
in the years prior to Covid-19 pandemic was higher, the premium would still have
represented a significant proportion of turnover in any of those years as well. As a result Im
not persuaded that, but for the failings by AJG, it would have been able to obtain cover for
the activities it wanted to carry out at a price it would have been prepared and able to pay.
So I dont think AJG is responsible for Cs claimed losses.
However, I do appreciate C has been inconvenienced by what AJG got wrong. Its offered
£750 in relation to this. C has suggested thats less than the commission AJG would have
received for arranging these policies. But that isnt the issue I need to consider here. What I
need to decide is what the fair way of compensating C is for the unnecessary inconvenience
it was caused by what AJG got wrong. I acknowledge C has put time into pursuing this
matter but I think some of that resource would always need to have been utilised to try and
find alternative cover regardless of the failing by AJG. On balance I think the £750 it has
already offered is a fair way of recognising the inconvenience C was caused by what it got
wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision
AJG didnt respond. C made detailed paragraph by paragraph comments on my provisional 
decision. Ive read all of those points but Ive only summarised below those which, in my 
judgement, are relevant to the outcome I reached. In doing so Ive focussed on the 
comments that relate to a disagreement with my findings rather than, for example, points 
made by AJG or the wording I used in my provisional decision. 
C questioned what our definition of a mis-sale was and said the key question was if there 
had been proper record keeping by AJG and it had acted correctly whether the 
cancellation of the policy and the related consequences would have taken place.
It didnt accept the information from H showed it wouldnt have offered renewal in 2021. It 
queried whether H had been provided with full and transparent information about the 
situation. And it thought if previous renewals had been offered by H it would have been 
more likely to offer cover again in 2021. It drew attention to Cs past good record and the 
low risk of the fire safety consultancy it was engaged in.
It didnt think Hs decision not to offer cover for the work it wanted to do in 2021 was 
relevant because this was impacted by knowledge of the situation at the time and the 
status (and imminent cancellation) of the policy it held with A. It thought H and other 
insurers had only been approached once the issues with As policy became known and it 
was that which led them to decline cover. It said the only reason it needed to seek 
alternative cover in 2021 was because of what AJG got wrong.
It questioned what AJG had told prospective insurers from July 2021 about its situation 
and the cancellation of its existing policy with A. It thought AJG must have revealed 
information about this to the insurers it approached at the time (without revealing its role 
in this) and that led those insurers to be risk averse in relation to offering cover. It 
reiterated this point in later comments.It said the quote it obtained in 2021 had a much higher professional indemnity limit and 
that increased the premium for this cover. However, the overall price was then 
significantly inflated by the brokers commission. It believed this was linked to the 
situation C found itself in and the need for cover the be in place.  It didnt think market 
hardening was the issue because it didnt carry out fire safety consultancy in relation to 
occupied buildings but for road tunnels. 
When it sought cover a few months later the premium for a lower level of cover was 
significantly higher (though broker commission was lower). It thought this was linked to 
the cancellation of its previous policy by A (and also led to a refusal to offer retroactive 
cover at all).
The price of the policy AJG did obtain a quote for in December 2021 would also have 
been impacted by the impending cancellation of its existing policy. And that policy 
offered £1 million of PI cover and not £100,000 as stated in the provisional decision (for 
a premium of around £9,000). The reason C didnt take that policy out was because it 
was advised not to by AJG.
C disputed it wouldnt have been able find cover at an affordable price if it hadnt been 
for what AJG got wrong. It pointed out that its business was recovering fast following the 
pandemic and if renewal had been offered by H it would have continued to have cover in 
place.
It didnt the compensation offered was sufficient as it believed the failings by AJG had 
caused it to lose its main income including from a multi-year contract it had won. And it 
didnt accept the amount of commission paid wasnt relevant to this. 
In summary C argued it didnt have a suitable policy in place (which included retroactive 
cover) because of what AJG got wrong. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision why I was satisfied there had been a mis-sale in this 
case. Thats because, having taken into account the relevant rules in particular as they relate 
to advised sales, I wasnt satisfied AJG had done what it should. Thats because it 
recommended a policy to C that wasnt suitable for it. C has made some further comments in 
relation to what happened at this time but as Im already satisfied AJG was at fault here I 
dont need to consider these further. 
I agree the question is therefore whether C lost out as a result of what AJG got wrong. That 
includes whether its inability to now obtain ongoing insurance cover (with a retroactive date 
to cover past liabilities) was caused by this. 
C has suggested that my provisional decision is subjective and is based on what I think. But 
where the evidence in relation to a complaint is incomplete or inconclusive (which in my view 
is the case in relation to aspects of this complaint) I do need to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened based on the information I have. So thats the approach Ive applied 
in this case. 
Ive considered first the points C has made in relation to the policy it had with H. Its argued 
H would have offered renewal of its policy. And it says its refusal (and that of other insurers) 
to offer cover in 2021 was influenced by knowledge of the upcoming cancellation of its policy with A. The correspondence Ive seen does show that other insurers (including H) were only 
approached after A had declined cover. And the email to those insurers did reference the 
fact A were unaware of the fire safety consultancy work C was doing and that its policy 
would need to be cancelled. 
That email didnt say or suggest the reason for the cancellation was a result of something C 
had done wrong. However, given insurers were aware of the forthcoming cancellation I 
accept that could have played a part in their decision making. So Ive given less weight to 
this when considering whether H would have likely offered renewal in 2021. 
But that isnt the only evidence in relation to this. As part of our investigation H was 
specifically asked whether it would have offered renewal terms in 2021. H didnt say it 
wouldnt have done so. Equally it didnt (as it could have done) say it would or that it would 
have been likely to have done so if this had been a renewal. I recognise the question it was 
asked was in general terms rather than being in response to a proposal with full information 
about, for example, Cs claims history. But the focus and tone of its response is nevertheless 
on points such as this being a difficult risk for which its appetite had tightened in recent 
years. Theres no suggestion in this correspondence that its comments were influenced by 
the cancellation of Cs previous policy.
And I continue to feel there is evidence to show significant market hardening for fire safety 
consultancy.  I appreciate Cs work wasnt directly related to occupied buildings but 
commentary from the time doesnt draw a distinction between different types of fire safety 
consultancy work and refers to insurers having left this market or excluded this cover in its 
entirety from their policies. A Construction Leadership Council survey in May 2021 (which 
included consultants) found there had been a four fold increase in professional indemnity 
premiums at the previous renewal following on from a doubling the previous year. It also 
found almost half of respondents had been declined by three or more insurers. 
Taking all of the evidence into account, and on balance, I think its unlikely H would have 
offered cover at renewal. Or if it did it wouldnt have done so at a price and on terms that 
would have been acceptable to C. So my view remains that C would always have needed to 
look elsewhere for alternative cover with a new insurer at that time. And, as I said in my 
provisional decision, when C subsequently declared the cancellation of its previous policy 
the premium quoted was around £55,000 (which C says didnt include retroactive cover). 
The extremely significant increase that represents on the previous renewal quote for Hs 
policy does indicate that issues with the cancellation played a part in the premium C was 
quoted. 
But the question remains whether, but for the error by AJG, C would have been able to 
obtain cover at a price it was prepared to pay. C believes it would have done. However, it 
didnt find a quote prior to the cancellation being declared which offered the cover it wanted 
at an acceptable price. I appreciate the fact information about the cancellation of its policy 
with A had been disclosed by AJG to some insurers may have narrowed the market for it. 
But other quotes were obtained and C didnt take these out because the premiums, 
retroactive date, or excess werent acceptable to it. 
In particular C described the cost (of £12,000) for the quote it obtained (which I appreciate 
had a higher cover limit) as unacceptable for a small company. I note the further comments 
C has made about the impact of broker commission on this premium but it hasnt provided 
any clear evidence beyond what, in my view, are speculative points to show the 
circumstances it found itself in impacted this. I dont think the fact it was subsequently able to 
find a policy with a lower broker commission demonstrates that either; that policy was 
offered at a different time, with a different level of coverage and was from a different broker. In any case Cs issue with this policy wasnt just with the premium but also the absence of 
retroactive cover and the excess (which would have been determined by the insurer). In 
relation to the excess it said a single claim would have definitely bankrupted [C]. So even if 
C is correct to say the broker commission was inflated because of its circumstances (and so 
related to what AJG got wrong) this policy wouldnt have been suitable for it for that reason 
anyway. And that would have applied regardless of the failing by AJG. 
The insurer AJG subsequently approached through another broker said in an email that it 
would only be prepared to offer cover of £100,000 with a premium of £10,000 for fire safety 
consultancy. C did describe those costs as exorbitant in an email response on 25 
November 2021. And while it does appear that broker was aware in general terms of the 
reason for C needing alternative cover the insurer commented more generally that a higher 
cover limit (of £1 million) would carry big deductibles and a three figure premium. In my view 
thats a comment on the market more generally and so would have applied to any 
application for cover of this nature. 
That insurer was subsequently prepared to offer cover with a premium of around £9,000 and 
cover of £1 million. But that quote included restrictions on fire safety consultancy activity (I 
appreciate C says this didnt impact the work it actually did) and didnt include retroactive 
cover. The correspondence Ive seen between AJG and the other broker doesnt indicate 
that was because of any issues with the cancellation of Cs previous policy but because it 
didnt want to be exposed to liability for previous fire safety activities C had carried out. That 
suggests to me the issue here is with a general risk aversion by insurers at this time rather 
than being related to what AJG got wrong. 
C has said it didnt go ahead with this policy because AJG advised it against doing so. But 
whether thats the case or not the quoted premiums for all of the available policies were 
more than Cs turnover for the year ending 31 December 2021. I appreciate its business may 
have been recovering following the pandemic but that figure would still have represented a 
very significant amount of turnover in previous years as well.  And C described all the quotes 
obtained prior to cancellation of the policy being declared as unaffordable and bringing the 
potential for future bankruptcy (because of the level of the excess). 
I recognise C strongly believes those premiums and terms were influenced by its existing 
situation and the issues with A but for the reasons Ive explained I dont agree with that. Im 
not persuaded that, but for the error by AJG, C would have been able to find cover for fire 
safety consultancy work on acceptable terms and at a price it would have been prepared 
and able to pay from either H or a different insurer. 
I therefore dont agree AJG needs to compensate C for the loss of its revenue stream in 
relation to fire safety work because I dont agree the fact C is no longer able to carry that out 
has come about because of what AJG got wrong. 
What AJG does need to address is the inconvenience caused to C by what it got wrong. I 
note the further comments C has made about the commission AJG would have received but 
Ive already explained why that isnt something Im considering. Thats because its the 
impact on C of what AJG got wrong that I need to take into account here. And having done 
so it remains my view that a payment of £750 a fair way of compensating C for the 
unnecessary inconvenience it was caused by this.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited will 
need to put things right by paying C £750
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman