DRN-3339109
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement that esure Insurance Limited offered him following a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr As car was damaged and declared to be beyond economical repair. esure offered Mr A 
the cars market value in settlement of his claim. It said that was £12,396. But Mr A was 
unhappy with this. He said it didnt take into account his cars specification and current 
market conditions. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esures 
offer was fair and reasonable as it had been made correctly according to our approach. So 
he thought it didnt need to increase this.
Mr A replied that he thought the guides were out of step with the current market conditions 
for used cars. He thought his cars colour made it more desirable. He provided examples of 
similar cars for sale advertised for around £15,000. Mr A asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. 
I can see that Mr A disagrees with our approach, but its one that we use to be fair to all 
parties. I cant see that Mr As car is a rare or classic car and I think the guides take into 
account current market conditions. So I can see no reason to depart from our approach.
Our Investigator thought esures valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the guides for valuations of cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr As car at the date of its 
loss. I can see that esure made its valuations correctly and it provided us with copies of 
them. So I think, in keeping with our approach, we can rely on them. The average of the 
valuations found was £12,396. This is what esure has offered Mr A. So I cant say its 
settlement offer was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr A provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But, as the Investigator 
has explained, we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
Mr A thought his cars colour would add value. But our approach is that this isnt necessarily 
so as what is desirable to one consumer may be undesirable to another. So I dont think this 
is a reason for esure to increase its offer. 
So I think esures valuation of the market value of Mr As car was made correctly in keeping 
with our approach. And so I think its fair and reasonable and I dont require esure to 
increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman