DRN-1841618
The complaint
Miss M complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by Oodle Financial Services Limited was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to end the 
agreement and reject the vehicle.
What happened
Miss M tells us that she acquired the vehicle in December 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as 
R. She says that after about a month the vehicle broke down with transmission failure and 
was repaired by R. Some months later she says she noticed a knocking noise and a 
second breakdown occurred. Miss M says she took the vehicle to be examined by a main 
dealer of the manufacturers, a company Ill call F. Miss M says shes now provided an 
invoice detailing the work thats required which includes a new gear box and transfer unit.
Oodle told us that it didnt accept that the identified faults with the vehicle had been present 
at the point of supply. And that the issues were due to wear and tear.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that the repairs 
made after the first breakdown were not completed to a satisfactory standard and caused 
the current issues. She thought that Miss M should be able to end the agreement and reject 
the vehicle.
Oodle didnt agree with this decision and said that it wouldve expected the knocking noise to 
have been apparent earlier if it had been due to failed repairs. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms M is very upset at whats happened and I can understand shed be 
disappointed that this vehicle has experienced two breakdowns caused by serious 
mechanical failures in under a year.
Miss Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Oodle supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law  
directly  I do take it into account. 
Relevant legislation here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in 
order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied.  
Satisfactory quality includes aspects of durability or - put another way- how long is it 
reasonable to expect goods to work to a satisfactory level.
In brief, Miss Ms complaint is that the vehicle broke down within a few weeks of supply. And 
that the repairs completed at that time have subsequently failed. She doesnt think she 
should be liable for the further repair costs and wants to reject the vehicle and end the 
financial agreement.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Theres no dispute about the basic circumstances in this case. The vehicle has broken down 
on two occasions in January 2019 and November 2019. On both occasions the failure has 
related to the vehicles transmission. The main issues between the parties relate to whether 
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied. And by extension, whether Miss M 
should now be able to reject it.
After the first breakdown in January 2019, R arranged to have repairs carried out and the 
invoice dated 20 February 2019 indicates that a reconditioned transmission was fitted. 
In November 2019 Miss M again reported that the vehicle had broken down. Oodle advised 
her that if it were to assist it would require an independent inspection report as by then Miss 
M had been in possession of the vehicle for more than six months.
Ive seen a document headed Cash Sale Invoice from F, dated November 2019 - which 
details the repair work necessary following the second breakdown. This indicates that it 
identified that casing units were broken and bolts missing. It concluded that a new gearbox 
and transfer unit was required.
Its often the case that where a vehicle fails, it requires an independent report prepared by 
an expert witness to ascertain what the faults are and if they were present at the point of 
supply.
Here I dont think thats necessary. The vehicle has been examined at a garage which is a 
branch of the manufacturers. Theres no reason to suppose its diagnosis is inaccurate and 
as far as Im aware Oodle isnt disputing this. In terms, it (Oodle) is saying that it isnt liable 
as the issues are the result of wear and tear and occurred more than six months after 
supply.
Under the CRA, the relevance of the six months period after the date of supply is limited. It 
refers to the statutory presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within that 
time its presumed they didnt conform to contract at the time of supply. It doesnt mean that 
if goods fail after this six months period has expired that they were of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. 
The CRA also provides that where goods are repaired  having not been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied  and those repairs arent successful, the consumer can reject the 
goods.Where information is unclear, or facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The vehicle broke down with transmission failure within a few weeks of supply. Clearly it 
hadnt conformed to contract at the point of supply. Quite correctly, R arranged for repairs to 
be carried out at no cost to Miss M. In doing so it, and by extension Oodle, (although I dont 
think it was directly involved) had recognised Miss Ms rights under the CRA.
Ive seen the findings of F following its examination of the vehicle in November 2019. And 
Ive seen photographs of the vehicle which confirm bolts are missing and some parts are 
misaligned. 
I think its more probable than not that the faults now identified are likely to have been the 
result of a gradual deterioration in the condition of the vehicle. I find that its entirely feasible 
that the vehicle travelled 10,000 miles from the time of supply. Ill explain why.
It appears from photographs that some but not all bolts are missing. This means its probable 
the vehicle was able to function, but the missing bolts gradually led to a misalignment and / 
or a weakening of the structure. And eventually a total breakdown.
Whether the bolts became loose before eventually falling out or whether they werent in 
place after the repairs by R Im not able to say. I dont think it makes a difference. Either 
way, the strong probability is that the repair work carried out by R wasnt carried out with 
reasonable care and skill.
Its stretching the boundaries of coincidence too far to suggest that the vehicle has 
experienced two unrelated transmission failures in a relatively short space of time. And that 
the second of these was not connected to the repair work previously undertaken.
I find on a balance of probabilities that the second breakdown was a direct consequence of 
the earlier repairs having failed. And that Miss M is now entitled to reject the vehicle and end 
the finance agreement.
As Miss M hasnt had any meaningful use of the vehicle since around 8 November 2019, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable she should be liable for payments after that time. Up to 
that date Oodle can retain monthly payments to reflect fair use.
 
Putting things right
I require Oodle to take the following action in full and final settlement of this complaint.
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Miss M to pay from 8 November 2019;2. Allow Miss M to reject the vehicle and if required arrange collection of it at no cost to 
Miss M;
3. Refund £80 being the cost of Miss Ms inspection invoice (subject to proof of 
payment being supplied);
4. Pay £250 to Miss M for distress and inconvenience;
5. Arrange to remove all adverse markers from Miss Ms credit file;
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. I now require 
Oodle Financial Services Limited to take the action Ive set out in the immediately preceding 
paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman