DRN-4007084
The complaint
Mr J has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in November 
2021, using a loan from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr J acquired a used Audi in November 2021, using a fixed-sum loan agreement with 
Santander. The car was four and a half years old, with a mileage of 75,625. The cost of the 
car was £18,700, of which Mr J borrowed £13,700 over a term of 60 months, with a monthly 
repayment of £287.57.
Mr J said that, on the day he took delivery of the car, it began to show problems. When 
travelling home, a warning message appeared on the dashboard indicating a problem with 
the Diesel Particulate Filter, and Mr J saw that the auto stop/start feature wasnt working. 
During the same journey, another dashboard error message appeared, saying Mr J should 
take the car to the nearest workshop. He also said there was a loss of power, and the car 
began to shake when travelling above 40mph, and it struggled to reach 70mph.
Mr J contacted the dealership about the issues and the car was collected for repair in early 
December 2021 and returned some two weeks later. However, the repair was not 
successful, and the car was collected again in mid-January 2022 for repair. It was returned 
to Mr J in March 2022. Mr J also said that between November 2021 and January 2022 he 
took the car to several garages for diagnostic tests, for which he had to pay.
At the end of January 2022, Mr J complained to Santander that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Santander kept in contact with Mr J, and issued its final response letter in early 
March 2022, saying that it was upholding Mr Js complaint and that he wouldnt need to pay 
anything towards the repair costs. However, I understand Mr J wanted to reject the car. 
The day after the car was returned to Mr J in March 2022, he said that he noticed that the 
car was damaged, in that body work had been scratched and there was an issue with the 
passenger window. Mr J contacted Santander to report these issues the same day
In May 2022, Mr J reported to Santander that further issues had arisen, these being a fault 
with a brake sensor that had just started, and that the seatbelts werent operating correctly. 
Santander commissioned an independent report to look at these issues, and the inspection 
was carried out in June 2022. The mechanic concluded that the issues had arisen after the 
point of supply, and neither were they related to any previous repairs. Based on the 
independent report, Santander didnt uphold the second complaint. 
The following month, Mr J said that the car developed an oil leak, and this repair cost him 
£1,000 to repair privately. In August 2022, Mr J said the car began to shake mid-journey and 
eventually shut down in the middle of the road. The car wouldnt restart, so he and his father 
had to push the car back home. 
Mr J raised this with Santander, and then brought his complaint to this service. He wants to 
reject the car and thinks it would be fair for Santander to refund all of the payments hes 
made, along with his deposit and the cost of the diagnostic tests. Mr J has also said the car 
has caused him a lot of stress because of the constant issues and repairs in comparison to 
the value of the car.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint, and thought that it should be upheld in part, in 
that Santander should have compensated Mr J to a greater extent for the first repair, 
However, he didnt think the other aspects of the complaint should be upheld. Santander 
accepted the investigators findings, but Mr J didnt agree, and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Js complaint, but not all of it. Ill explain why.
Because Santander supplied the car under a finance agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was around four and a half years old with a mileage of 75,625 
when Mr J acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to 
expect that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of 
this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr J and Santander provided about the sequence of 
events. And Santander sent in copies of the loan agreement, notes of its contact with Mr J, 
and the independent report.
With regard to the first repair, which involved an issue with the Diesel Particulate Filter and a 
related issue with the Exhaust Gas Recirculation, Santander upheld the complaint under the 
CRA. So Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Santander covered the cost of the repair as it should have done. However, our investigator 
thought that Santander should have compensated Mr J to a greater extent (and Santander 
accepted these findings) and, having reviewed all of the evidence afresh, I have reached the 
same conclusion. I have set out the details below, but in summary, I consider it fair for 
Santander to reimburse Mr J for the cost of the diagnostic reports, and to refund the 
proportion of his monthly payments for the period when he was without the car. I also 
consider it fair for Santander to refund part of Mr Js monthly payments between November 
2021 and January 2022 because the faults affected his use and enjoyment of the car, and I 
consider 60% a fair proportion. Santander should add compensatory interest to these 
amounts. I also consider it fair for Santander to pay Mr J £250 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him in trying to get the problem correctly diagnosed and repaired. I now turn to Mr Js second complaint, involving the condition of the car on its return in March 
2022 (scratches that were not present earlier), and issues with the brakes, the passenger 
window, and the seatbelt operation.
Ad I noted earlier, Santander commissioned a report from an independent company to look 
at these issues. Having looked carefully at the report, I can see that the mechanic concluded 
that, while there were some faults evident, these had developed after purchase and were not 
related to any previously unsuccessful repair. 
The presence of faults does not automatically mean that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality on acquisition  for example faults can develop through normal wear and tear, and 
the need to replace certain parts at the end of their normal lifespan. And Im conscious that 
Mr Js car was, by this point, about five years old with a mileage of around 78,000. On this 
basis, its not unreasonable for the issues identified by Mr J to have arisen, and based on the 
evidence Ive no reason to think they were due to anything other than reasonable wear and 
tear. 
Mr J mentioned scratches that he said had appeared when the car was returned after repair. 
Theres no information about how these scratches occurred, although I note Mr J suspects 
they happened when the repair took place. The dealership is independent of Santander, and 
therefore I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for any remedial action. 
The third element of Mr Js complaint relates to the oil leak and subsequent breakdown of 
the car in July and August 2022. However, I have no evidence to suggest the cause of the oil 
leak, or the breakdown. In relation to the oil leak, I note that theres nothing on the 
independent report to suggest a leak was present or developing, and I think its likely it 
wouldve been spotted if it had been present at the point of supply. On the evidence I have, I 
cant fairly say that the oil leak or breakdown are attributable to anything other than wear and 
tear. 
Overall, whilst I consider that Santander should have compensated Mr J to a greater extent 
for the initial repair, I dont consider that I can fairly hold Santander responsible for the issues 
which have arisen more recently. So Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint in part.  
Putting things right
Santander should:
Refund the monthly payments made by Mr J covering the periods 2 -15 December 
2021 and 16 January  17 March 2022;
Refund 60% of Mr Js monthly payments for the period November 2021  January 
2022 when Mr J was otherwise in possession of the car, but it wasnt performing as it 
should;
On receipt of valid receipts/invoices, refund the cost of all diagnostic tests incurred by 
Mr J in relation to the DPF and EGR fault;
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on these refunded amounts from the date Mr J paid 
them to the date of settlement*;
Pay a further amount of £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr J in dealing with the DPF and EGR fault.
*If Santander considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr Js complaint in part. Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc should pay Mr J the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman