DRN-1671687
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Freemans Plc has sold a debt she doesnt owe to a third party (TP), 
which is now pursuing her for it. She wants Freemans to acknowledge that no debt was 
owed to it. 
What happened
In November 2013, Mrs T opened an account with Freemans. She bought two items, but 
said they were never delivered. So Freemans cancelled them from her account.
In January 2014, Mrs T bought another (third) item, which appeared on her account for that 
month. In February 2014 a fourth item was bought and appeared on her account for that 
month. Mrs T says she returned these two items at the time through the post office.
She didnt buy anything else from Freemans. So as far as she knew she owed Freemans 
nothing, and says she didnt receive any further correspondence from Freemans. It seems 
Freemans sold the debt to TP in 2016, and in 2019 Mrs T started receiving correspondence 
from TP claiming she owed the debt which by this time amounted to £176.93.
Mrs T complained to Freemans that she hadnt owed it anything because the relevant goods 
had been returned. When it didnt accept this, she complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said Freemans 
had provided copy statements that it had sent to Mrs T at the time showing the outstanding 
balance. She was satisfied these were properly addressed and would have reached Mrs T.
She thought Mrs T should have noticed these statements showed a balance due from her to 
Freemans. If she disputed this she should have contacted Freemans about this and the 
returns she said she had made. However, Freemans said they hadnt received any contact 
from Mrs T. 
The investigator said that at this stage she couldnt ask Freemans to remove the debt. Mrs T 
responded to say, in summary, that she had been in contact with Freemans when she 
returned the goods in question, both by phone and by letter. Freemans said it was referring 
the matter to another department, but never got back to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is now some six years since Mrs T bought the two items. She hasnt been able to produce 
any evidence of the items being returned through the post office. Freemans has no record of 
it receiving back the goods. It says it is now too late for it to investigate whether the goods 
were received.Freemans has produced copy statements correctly addressed to Mrs T which it says it sent 
her from November 2013 up till and including June 2014. I think these would have reached 
Mrs T and so if she thought she didnt owe the debt shown I would expect her to have taken 
this up with Freemans at the time.
Mrs T says she did contact Freemans at the time about this, both by phone and by letter. 
However she hasnt produced any evidence to back this up. And Freemans says it has no 
record of any contact from Mrs T.
In the absence of evidence to support Mrs Ts claim that she returned the goods, and raised 
the issue of her account at the time with Freemans, I cant say Freemans has acted unfairly 
in treating the debt as outstanding or in selling the debt to the third party. So I cant 
reasonably require Freemans to take any action to cancel the debt.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Freemans Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman