DRN-2818726
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society took too long to switch his account, and 
that as a result he lost the opportunity to earn interest for that month.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C switched his account from a third party to Nationwide. He was told 
this would take up to seven working days, but it actually took eleven. He says that this 
caused him to miss out on earning interest in that month. This is because his Nationwide 
account only pays interest in a month in which the account holder pays at least £1,000 into 
the account. Mr C paid less than that amount into the account in February, but he says he 
would have paid more if the account had been opened in time.
Nationwide says there was no delay in switching the account. It says Mr C applied to open 
the account on 3 February, and Nationwide completed its account opening checks on 6 
February. It then started the switch procedure on 10 February, which it said was because it 
can take up to ten working days to deliver a new debit card, and if it had completed the 
switch before Mr Cs new card arrived, then he could have been left without access to his 
money.
The switch was completed on 18 February. Nationwide argued that counting from 10 
February, the switch procedure was completed within seven working days, as promised. 
Nationwide concluded that the correct amount of interest (none) had been paid in that 
month.
Being dissatisfied with that explanation, Mr C brought this complaint to our Service. But our 
investigator accepted Nationwides explanation, and so she did not uphold this complaint. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint, albeit for different reasons to those given by 
Nationwide and my colleague. I will explain why.
I do not think it is quite accurate to say that the switch was completed within seven working 
days. I accept that the switch was completed in time if one counts from 10 February, but that 
is not an obvious place to start, and I dont think Mr C was told that the switch would start on 
that date  a full week after he asked for his account to be switched. He didnt know that the 
switch would be delayed in order to give his new debit card time to arrive (which can take 
longer than seven working days). As far as Mr C knew, the process had started on 3 
February. When it concluded on 18 February, that was later than he had reasonably 
expected. To that extent, I agree with his complaint.
However, I cannot fine Nationwide as a punishment for what it has done, I can only require it 
to pay Mr C compensation for his inconvenience or for any financial loss he has been 
caused. So it is necessary for me to consider the consequences of the delay. In this case, 
Mr C says that the consequence is that he was deprived of the interest he would have been 
paid but for the delay.
Seven working days from 3 February (counting 4 February as day one) is 12 February. So 
I have considered whether it is likely that, if the switch had been completed on 12 February, 
Mr C would have paid at least £1,000 into his account before the end of that month. (Interest 
is calculated each calendar month, not a full month from when the account is opened.) 
I have seen Mr Cs Nationwide statements, but not a closing statement from his old account.
Between 18 and 29 February 2020, he paid £660.92 into his account (including the opening 
balance which was switched from his old account, which counts). So to qualify for interest in 
February, he would have needed to pay another £339.08 into the account between 12 and 
17 February, if the switch had been completed on 12 February.
To decide if that is likely, I have looked at his statement for the following month. Between 10 
and 19 March (inclusive), £248.93 was paid into his account.
In the following month, between 9 and 23 April (inclusive), £225.20 was paid into the 
account.
Based on these figures, I dont think its likely that Mr C would have been eligible for interest 
in the month he opened the account.
I therefore conclude that Mr C has been paid the correct interest, and that the delay in 
switching his account has not caused him financial loss. I appreciate that it must still have 
been annoying, but I dont think that reaches the level of inconvenience that would justify an 
award of compensation.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021. But there is no need for him to reply, and if we do 
not hear from him then we will presume that he rejects it. We will not enter into any further 
discussion about the merits of this complaint.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman