DRN-2135819
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society refused his claim brought under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He wants a full refund of charges in respect of hotel 
accommodation which did not meet all the contractual requirements.
What happened
Mr R tells us that whilst on holiday abroad with members of his family he booked hotel 
accommodation with a business Ill call SB. This was paid for by his Nationwide credit card. 
As the result of problems hed experienced with a previous hotel, Mr R says he checked that 
SB would provide hot water in the rooms. He states he was assured that this would be so. In 
the event he says that it wasnt supplied and the hotel did nothing about his complaint. 
Although he had the option to stay longer than two nights, he decided to check out with his 
family and go elsewhere.
Nationwide initially said it didnt find it had any liability under Section 75. But after our 
investigators view it accepted it should refund 15% of Mr Rs costs. Although it felt this 
should only be based on half of the total cost  not for the whole party.
Our investigator thought thered been a breach of contract. And that Nationwide should 
refund 15% of the total cost. He thought as Mr R had paid for his family it was unfair not to 
base the refund on the total cost.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome. He wanted a full refund. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr R and his family had this unfortunate experience. And it must have been 
especially disappointing having tried to ensure the problem would not arise.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Rs complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here the breach of contract is alleged to have occurred by the failure to provide hot water. 
That was a service which was stated on the invoice as being provided as part of the cost of 
the accommodation. As its accepted that it wasnt provided, I think Nationwide should have 
recognised that thered probably been a breach of contract. And that Mr R was entitled to a 
partial refund.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Here the information shows that 
theres been part-performance of the contract  as accommodation was provided and used. 
In those circumstances the usual remedy is for the consumer to be refunded only the value 
of that part of the contracted service which wasnt provided.
Its difficult here to be precise about the exact value of the service that wasnt provided. And 
in many ways its more to do with the resultant inconvenience rather than simply the 
monetary value.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
Nationwide to refund the whole of the booking cost when the main part of the contractual 
service  namely accommodation  was provided.
But I do think that as the payment was essentially for a family arrangement. And Mr R 
wouldnt have been expecting others to contribute, the refund should be based on the full 
amount. Its not fair and reasonable  let alone practical  to expect for members of the 
same family to pay for shared accommodation separately.
Putting things right
Nationwide should refund Mr R 15% of his total booking cost. The sterling equivalent was 
£388.22. So the amount to be refunded is £58.23.
Any interest paid on his credit card by Mr R relating to the refunded amount should also be 
repaid. Or if he paid in full (without incurring interest), then simple interest at the rate of 8% 
per year should be added to the refund from the date of full repayment to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding this complaint.
I require Nationwide Building Society to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
paragraph.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman