DRN-4085866
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have charged her for a 
subscription she believed was cancelled and defaulted her account.
What happened
Ms H says she had taken out a security policy but she cancelled this in June 2021 as she 
had not used her Barclaycard in two years. Ms H says that the payment for the security 
policy was charged to her Barclaycard account and they sent her a text to say she hadnt 
made a repayment on the account and charged her a £12 late fee. They sent another text 
the following month and charged her another late fee. Ms H says Barclaycard rang her in 
either August or September 2022 and she explained the situation to the call handler who 
agreed with her that she wasnt liable for the payment. Ms H says Barclaycard texted her 
again in September and October adding more charges and she felt harassed with the 
communication from Barclaycard. Ms H says her credit card expired in December 2021, so 
she didnt have an account with them. Ms H made a complaint to Barclaycard. Her account 
had defaulted and was passed to a debt management company (DMC).
Barclaycard did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. They said a transaction was made to the third 
party security company on 21 April 2022 for £99.99, which generated an outstanding 
balance on her account. As no further payments were made towards her account following 
this point, this led to a default being registered on 28 October 2022. Barclaycard said they 
had been unable to find any evidence to suggest her policy with the third party security 
company was cancelled. They said they also hadnt been able to locate the previous calls 
that she referred to. They said while Ms H was unhappy with the contact she received from 
Barclaycard, they have a requirement to contact customers when an account falls into 
arrears, and they applied interest and charges in line with the terms and conditions. Ms H 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. She said Ms H had told her that she 
cancelled the policy with her building society, but this wouldnt have cancelled the third party 
security agreement. She said its likely the direct debit for Ms Hs Barclaycard was cancelled 
at this time and that is why the direct debit didnt automatically take the payment in May 
2022. She said Barclaycard hadnt made the third party security payment to the account as 
this was a charge from the third party company for something not related to the credit card. 
Our investigator said that as Barclaycard didnt receive a payment, the account defaulted 
and was passed to a DMC, which Barclaycard were entitled to do.
Ms H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she asked why it was Barclaycard and not the third party security company who 
were chasing her for payment, she couldnt be the only person who stopped a service by 
cancelling it with her building society, she said the call handler she spoke to agreed she was 
not liable and Barclaycards behaviour was aggressive in their pursuit of repayment. She 
said her card expired in December 2021 and she couldnt pay for anything with an expired 
card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ms H has mentioned that her card expired in December 2021. But an expired card would not 
mean her account is closed. And as Barclaycard have shown that Ms H received her 
statements online and by post, it shouldve been clear to Ms H that her account wasnt 
closed. 
Ms H has told us that she cancelled the direct debit to Barclaycard in June 2021 as she no 
longer used her card. But this wouldnt stop any payments debiting her account. It would just 
mean that Barclaycard would not be able to take repayments via this method. So neither an 
expired card or a cancelled direct debit would have notified the third party security company 
that Ms H may not wish to continue her subscription which she also paid for in 2020 and 
2021. Ms H wouldve needed to contact the third party direct to cancel this payment, but Ive 
not been provided with any evidence that she did this. Ive also seen no evidence from 
Barclaycards customer notes that Ms H told them prior to April 2022 that she didnt want the 
third party security company payment debiting her account.
Although Ms H says her card had expired, this doesnt mean that payments could not be 
debited from her account. Once a recurring payment such as the one to the third party 
security company has started it is linked to the account, not the card. So the fact Ms Hs card 
had expired would not prevent payments such as this being stopped, unlike if she tried to 
use an expired card in a shop to pay for something. 
The third party security company was responsible for the debit of the £99.99 on 21 April 
2022. The payment went to them. This is why the third party company did not need to chase 
Ms H for the funds, as these were owed to Barclaycard. I can see that Barclaycard sent a 
statement showing this payment to Ms H and the address matches up to what she provided 
to our service. Ms Hs statements show that she didnt make a repayment, so Barclaycard 
started their collections procedure. I know Ms H found the contact to be harassing, but 
Barclaycard would need to try and get in touch with her to see if she was suffering from 
financial difficulties and see if they could collect what was owed to them. It is not the role of 
this service to say what their collections process should be or how many times and by what 
method they should try and contact Ms H by. 
Barclaycard have said they couldnt locate the calls Ms H was referring to. Ive looked at the 
customer notes to see if I can see any record of any calls she had with Barclaycard, such as 
the one where she says she was told in August or September that she wasnt liable for the 
payment, but there are no notes detailing any calls prior to April 2022, apart from a call on 17 
January 2019 when she set the direct debit up, so I cant evidence that she was told she 
wasnt liable for the payment by a Barclaycard call handler. And if she was told this, it would 
be incorrect information as there was an outstanding balance on her account during this 
time. So she would still be responsible for paying the outstanding balance.
I can see Barclaycard wrote to Ms H at her registered address on 19 June, 12 July, 10 
August 2022 about the arrears. They sent her a default notice dated 13 September 2022, 
which told her she needed to clear the arrears by 14 October 2022. But as Ms H didnt do 
this, Barclaycard registered a default with the Credit Reference Agencies and passed her 
account to a DMC, which the terms and conditions allowed them to do. So it follows I dont require Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman