DRN-2994457
The complaint
Miss K complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) mis-sold a life 
insurance policy to her which she never wanted and that it failed to provide her with the 
documents she asked for.
 
What happened
Miss K believes L&G played a role in selling her a life insurance policy which she didnt want. 
The policy was taken out alongside a mortgage and was arranged by an independent firm of 
financial advisers. 
L&G told Miss K that it didnt sell her the policy, nor was it privy to the advice and 
recommendations made by the financial advisers, and so she should direct her complaint to 
the firm that arranged the sale of the policy.
Miss K says she was made to believe she couldnt get a mortgage without the policy. And 
that she was subjected to pressurised sales tactics at a time when she was extremely 
vulnerable. And as she was unhappy with L&Gs response on the matter, Miss K referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered what had happened, but didnt think she could hold L&G at fault. 
Miss K disagreed with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Whilst I sympathise greatly with Miss Ks personal circumstances, Im afraid I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me of wrongdoing on the part of L&G. This is because the 
available information shows the independent firm of financial advisers recommended the 
policy and L&G simply acted on its instructions. 
I know Miss K strongly believes that the independent financial advisory firm, L&G and her 
mortgage provider all worked together under a commission-based arrangement, and I 
understand and have taken into consideration what shes said about this. But Im afraid that 
all the information Ive seen points to L&G being presented with information from the 
financial advisory firm and being instructed to set up the policy for Miss K. And despite 
Miss Ks strength of feeling about the matter, I cant see from the available evidence that 
L&G had any other role in the process.
In relation to Miss Ks subject access request, I can see this request was processed by L&G, 
and completed on 8 July 2020. The evidence also shows Miss K signed for the documents 
on 10 July 2020. So Im satisfied L&G actioned Miss Ks request and wont be asking it to do 
any more in relation to that.
Finally, Id like to say Im sorry to hear about the extremely difficult personal circumstances 
Miss K has experienced. There is no doubt in my mind that Miss K has been treated 
appallingly and has been manipulated for many years. But I need to consider whether L&G 
has treated her unfairly in this particular instance. And I dont think it has acted unreasonably 
in issuing Miss K with a policy it was clearly instructed to set up. 
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to her, but Im afraid that for the reasons 
Ive explained, I wont be requiring L&G to do anything further.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss K but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman