DRN-2150833
The complaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr D says the lending had a serious 
impact on his well-being caused by huge distress and inconvenience. Mr D wants the 
interest repaid and the negative information removed from his credit file. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr D in June 2018. Mr Ds 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 05/06/2018 13/06/2018 6 £175.00   £51.69
2 13/06/2018 not closed 6 £650.00 £194.47
In our latest assessment, our adjudicator who considered Mr Ds complaint thought it should 
be upheld in full. This was because the lending was unsustainable for Mr D as his 
expenditure exceeded his income. 
MYJAR agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It offered to repay the interest and 
charges on both loans and offset this against the outstanding balance on loan two. This 
would leave Mr D with an outstanding principal balance of £502.74 which once repaid would 
mean Mr D had no outstanding commitments to MYJAR. It also said that it would remove 
any negative information about loans one and two from Mr Ds credit file.
We put the offer to Mr D. After further correspondence with the adjudicator Mr D sought 
clarification about when the negative information on his credit file would be removed and the 
practicalities of the outstanding balance as there wouldnt be any credit agreement in place. 
After referring back to MYJAR the adjudicator told Mr D the negative information would be 
removed from his credit file regarding loans one and two once the offer was accepted and 
would be marked as settled and closed once repaid. It also said that Mr D could contact its 
customer care team who would work out a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance. 
As Mr D still had some questions in response, and as the complaint was waiting to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ill split my findings into two parts  whether MYJAR should have lent to Mr D and whether 
what it has offered to do to put things right is fair.
Should MYJAR have lent to Mr D?
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
MYJAR has told us about the checks it made before it agreed to lend to Mr D. It gave us a 
copy of those checks. These included a copy of its report which recorded details of Mr Ds 
income and expenditure. Mr Ds total monthly outgoings were recorded as being £2,979 
against his declared income of £2,800. So, it was clear from MYJARs own records and 
calculations the Mr D couldnt have afforded to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. 
MYJAR has already agreed it shouldnt have lent to Mr D and to confirm, I agree with the 
outcome. 
Is MYJARs offer to put things right fair?
As I explained above MYJAR has offered to offset the interest and charges on loans one and 
two against the outstanding balance due on loan. This would leave Mr D with an outstanding 
balance of £502.74. It also said that it would remove any negative information about the 
loans from Mr Ds credit file. 
Mr D sought clarification about what this would mean for his credit file and the practicalities 
of repaying the outstanding balance. As Ive also explained above, MYJAR said it would 
remove any negative information from Mr Ds credit file about the two loans once the 
settlement offer was accepted and the account would be marked as settled and closed once 
repaid. It asked Mr D to contact MYJARs customer care team about the outstanding 
balance to arrange a mutually agreeable repayment plan.
At this point the complaint was passed to me. After reviewing the file and in advance of 
issuing my decision I referred back to MYJAR so that I was clear on its intentions. MYJAR 
confirmed that;
if Mr D accepted its offer to offset the redress for loans one and two against the 
outstanding balance on loan two now, then the negative credit markers so far 
recorded on both loans will be removed on the assumption that;
Mr D will be setting up a suitable repayment plan (with its customer care team) for 
the outstanding balance on loan two and provided he keeps to that repayment plan 
no further new negative markers will be added to his credit file. 
I asked our adjudicator to pass this information onto Mr D and further he explained the 
above would be simultaneous. In response Mr D asked which would happen first. 
To be clear my understanding is that all of the actions above are part of linked events and 
one should follow on from the other. Albeit with the potential of the delay between the 
negative information being removed from the credit file and it actually showing as having been removed. This would depend upon the credit reference agency. But information is 
normally shown as being updated between 30  56 days after the request is made. 
MYJAR has explained the actions it proposes to take in order to put the matter of the 
irresponsible lending complaint right. And in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I 
think what MYJAR is proposing to do is fair and reasonable. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more than it has already offered to do.
Putting things right
So, it is now for Mr D to decide whether he wants to accept MYJARs offer of offsetting the 
redress for loans one and two against the outstanding balance of loan two. MYJAR in turn 
has said would remove the negative markers it has so far recorded on both loans and Mr D 
should arrange a repayment plan to settle the outstanding amount. And provided that new 
repayment plan is kept to, MYJAR has said no new negative markers will be added to his 
credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. MYJAR Limited has offered to 
put things right as set out above. Mr D needs to decide whether to accept what MYJAR 
Limited has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman