DRN-2538338
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs N complain Coventry Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs N took out a joint mortgage and PPI with Coventry in 1998. The PPI gave
Mr J and Mrs N an equal joint benefit if either of them lost their job.
When Mr J and Mrs N first complained to us they said the PPI wasnt suitable for them 
because they had employment rights and significant savings. 
In my provisional decision of 23 September 2020, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr J and Mrs Ns complaint. Mr J has given me some comments on my decision. Coventry 
hasnt responded. So Mr J and Mrs Ns complaint has now come back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr J and Mrs Ns complaint. I know Mr J is 
strongly of the view that it should be upheld, so my decision will disappoint him. But I hope 
the reasons Im about to give for my decision  in addition to those Ive already given in my 
provisional decision  help him to understand why I dont think upholding it would be fair and 
reasonable.
In my provisional decision, I said:
From what Ive seen, I think Mr J and Mrs N agreed to the PPI knowing they didnt have to
(and this is something I dont think they dispute). I can see that, in the mortgage application
form they filled in, Mr J and Mrs N said they wished to apply for PPI. They ticked the form to
say they wanted an illustration for unemployment cover only (which, at the time, lasted for 9
months). There were other PPI options available on the form for combined unemployment,
accident and sickness cover. And there was also the option to say no to PPI. Mr J and Mrs N
signed the PPI section of the form separately to the rest of the form to confirm they wanted
unemployment cover.
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI illustration Coventry subsequently sent them, which reflects
their instructions on the mortgage application. Coventry says Mr J and Mrs N would also
have signed a separate PPI application form  and it has sent us an example of the form it
says was in use at the time. It doesnt have a copy of the form Mr J and Mrs N actually filled
in and signed. But, since PPI was added to their account and the PPI provider was a
separate entity to Coventry, I think its likely Mr J and Mrs N completed one.
Mr J and Mrs Ns main complaint, however, is that they didnt need the PPI. They note their
mortgage quotation says Coventry recommends the PPI. And they say Coventry shouldnt
have recommended it because they had employment rights (having been in their roles for
some time), including notice periods of six months. And they say they had significant rainy
day savings they couldve relied on if theyd needed to.
Coventry doesnt think its likely it recommended the PPI to Mr J and Mrs N. It says they
filled in their mortgage application themselves (and from the copy of the form Ive seen, Id
agree). It also says that the form was processed at their head office branch; that, at the time,
this branch processed forms from outside its geographical area; and that Mr J and Mrs N
lived outside the area. It says this points to it not having given Mr J and Mrs N any advice
about PPI. It also says that, having asked for an illustration for unemployment cover in their
mortgage application, it wouldve sent this to Mr J and Mrs N by post  again, suggesting it
didnt advise them to buy the PPI. But Coventry accepts that, the sale having been so long
ago, it cant say Mr J and Mrs N didnt speak to an adviser as some point.
When our adjudicator sent out her view on Mr J and Mrs Ns complaint, she said she didnt
think Coventry had advised them to buy the PPI. But she later changed her mind about this.
And its on this issue that my reasoning differs from hers, as Ill explain.
An advised sale is one where a business makes a recommendation to a customer based on
an in-depth analysis of his or her particular circumstances and needs. I havent seen any
information in this complaint that shows Coventry did an analysis like this. The quotation
Mr J and Mrs N got recommended they take out PPI. But it also recommended they take
out buildings and contents cover. I dont think the use of the word recommend in a generic
statement intended to apply to all customers is the same as Coventry doing an in-depth
analysis of Mr J and Mrs Ns particular circumstances and needs. And Mr J and Mrs N say
they cant remember Coventry discussing PPI with them. Of course, memories can fade over
time. But their lack of recollection of any discussion about PPI could be because there was
none, because Coventry didnt recommend it.
Ultimately, though, I dont need to decide whether or not Coventry recommended the PPI to
Mr J and Mrs N. Thats because, based on what Mr J and Mrs N say of their circumstances
at the time and the policy details Ive got, even if Coventry did recommend it to them, I think
the unemployment cover they got was right for them. I say this because, based on this
information:
Mr J and Mrs N were eligible for the cover. And they werent caught by any of the
main exclusions and limitations we tend to see in PPI policies. So there was nothing
to stop Mr J or Mrs N from claiming the full policy benefit if theyd needed to. And,
indeed, I can see Mr J did make two successful claims on the policy.
Despite what Mr J and Mrs N say, I think the unemployment cover the policy gave
was of use to them. In saying this, Ive borne in mind that their mortgage was a
significant and long-term financial commitment secured on their home, which was at
risk if they fell behind with their repayments. Initially, it wouldve paid a benefit for up
to nine months if either of them lost their jobs and this was later extended to 12
months. Mr J and Mrs N say they had long notice periods. This may have meant they
could plan better for the changes that lay ahead than those with shorter notice
periods. But that isnt guaranteed  and insurance is designed to protect against the
unexpected.
Mr J and Mrs N say they had significant savings at the time. I dont yet have any
evidence of what their savings were  if Mr J and Mrs N have this information, Id begrateful if they could send it in to us. But, looking at their mortgage offer, I can see
they paid an extra fee of nearly £600 because their borrowing was high in relation to
the value of the property they were buying. The fee was included in the amount they
borrowed. And Mr J did make two successful claims  many years after the PPI was
taken out  which I think shows the usefulness of the policy (despite whatever
savings Mr J and Mrs N may have had left at the time of the claims). So with the
evidence I have so far, I cant say Mr J and Mrs Ns savings meant the PPI was
unsuitable for them.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr J and Mrs N couldnt afford the cover.
Whether or not Coventry recommended the PPI to Mr J and Mrs N, it was under a duty to
give them information about it that was clear, fair and not misleading. I can see the cost of
the PPI was set out in the illustration Mr J and Mrs N were sent. And the benefit was set out
in their mortgage application. So I think this important information was reasonably clear.
Its possible some of the other information wasnt made as clear as it shouldve been  such
as the things it didnt cover, like unusual employment arrangements. But these didnt affect
Mr J and Mrs N, so I dont think knowing more about them wouldve changed their decision.
Mr J says he didnt know hed have to wait 30 days before he could make a claim. But this is
a standard term in insurance contracts like this and I wouldnt have expected Coventry to
bring it to his attention specifically.
So, from what Ive seen so far, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
But Coventry has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J and Mrs N because:
Coventry got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr J and Mrs N about that. Because Coventry didnt 
tell Mr J and Mrs N, that was unfair.
To put that right, Coventry has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr J says he thinks it was wrong of me to base 
my provisional findings on definitions of advised and non-advised sales that post-date the 
sale of the PPI he and Mrs N bought. But these concepts have been used in financial 
services law and regulation, and have underpinned industry practice, for a number of years.
Mr J and Mrs N have said from the beginning the PPI was recommended to them by 
Coventry. The further comments Mr J has made about this issue in his response to my 
provisional decision, although more detailed than those hes made previously, are broadly 
the same as before.
In my provisional decision, I explained why Coventry didnt think it had made a 
recommendation. But I also noted it couldnt say Mr J and Mrs N hadnt spoken to an adviser 
at some point. And thats why, in my provisional decision, I decided to treat the sale of 
Mr J and Mrs Ns PPI as if Coventry had recommended it. In doing so, in effect, I was 
placing a duty on Coventry to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr J and Mrs N (and this 
duty was on top of its other duty to give them information about the policy that was clear, fair 
and not misleading).
Mr Js comments dont change my thoughts on this issue. Although I dont think I have 
enough information to decide it one way or another, Im still treating the sale as if Coventry 
recommended the PPI to him and Mrs N.In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought the recommendation (again, assuming 
one had been made by Coventry) was suitable. This was based on what Mr J and Mrs N had 
told us, so far, of their circumstances at the time they bought the cover and the policy details 
we had. Mr J and Mrs N had said they had significant savings at the time but we didnt have 
detailed evidence of what those savings were. So I asked Mr J and Mrs N to send us any 
information they had. 
Mr J has prepared a spreadsheet showing deposits he had of around £10,000 in building 
society accounts and a TESSA, as well as shares he says were worth about £40,000. It also 
shows investments Mrs N had of around £23,000 in a PEP and another investment product. 
This information isnt independent evidence  from, for example, building society passbooks. 
But Mr J says the figures are taken from tax returns and so Ive assumed theyre accurate 
(although of course share values can fluctuate widely). Mr J says hes fairly confident the 
building society accounts were easily accessible and the shares were easily realisable.
With these assets, Mr J and Mrs N say they didnt need the cover and so Coventry shouldnt 
have recommended it. I disagree. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr J and Mrs N were 
taking on a reasonably large mortgage  it was for over £125,000  which had a term of 25 
years. Rather than realising any of their assets to reduce their mortgage borrowing, they 
paid Coventry an extra fee of nearly £600 because they were borrowing more than 70% of 
the value of the property they were buying. 
In addition to this, I dont think Mrs Ns investment assets wouldve necessarily been easily 
accessible (at least without incurring penalties), if theyd been needed in a hurry. And Mr Js 
shares arent the same as savings  their value isnt certain in the way that cash deposits 
are  and so they dont give suitable alternative protection. Also, having PPI meant Mr J 
wasnt at risk of being forced to sell any of his shares, perhaps at a time not of his choosing 
when he mightnt have been able to achieve the price he hoped for. And it meant if either he 
or Mrs N had lost their jobs, his savings couldve been used for other necessary living 
expenses, rather than paying part of the mortgage.
So while Im grateful to Mr J for sending in the spreadsheet, the more detailed information 
hes given us on his and Mrs Ns other assets hasnt changed my conclusion on this point. 
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, as well as those Ive given here, I think the 
PPI was suitable for him and Mrs N.
When I sent out my provisional decision, I said I didnt think Mr J and Mrs N disputed theyd 
agreed to the PPI knowing they didnt have to. I said this because they hadnt said anything 
about this issue when they brought their complaint to us  their focus was on it not being 
suitable for them. 
In response to my provisional decision and having looked at all the paperwork again, Mr J 
says there was a large degree of compulsion to take out the policy. He says this because 
the PPI was recommended in his mortgage quotation and a disclaimer had to be signed if it 
wasnt taken out. The notion of pressure is subjective and what may cause one person to 
feel compelled to buy PPI may not affect another. But this isnt an issue Mr J and Mrs N 
have raised consistently throughout the complaint process. And I cant reasonably and fairly 
say either of the things Mr J says made him feel compelled to buy it amount to Coventry 
putting unfair pressure on him and Mrs N to take it out.
Mr J also says property insurance and PPI were shown on the front page of the mortgage 
offer. He says this meant they were important ingredients of the mortgage and he recalls 
considering them as mandatory aspects of Coventrys mortgage offer. But I think they were in the mortgage offer because Mr J and Mrs N had previously agreed to them, for reasons 
Ive set out in my provisional decision.
Mr J is also unhappy Coventry doesnt have a copy of the PPI application form it says he 
and Mrs N filled in. I mentioned this in my provisional decision and said I thought it was likely 
Mr J and Mrs N had filled in a form like the example form Coventry had sent us. And I can 
see that, in their PPI questionnaire, Mr J and Mrs N refer to filling in an application form. 
So, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision and for those Ive given here, I think   
Mr J and Mrs N agreed to the PPI knowing they didnt have to.
Mr J has made other arguments about this complaint. Although I havent gone through all of 
them here, Ive looked at them closely  along with all the other evidence  and they dont 
change my conclusions. 
But I would like to comment on what Mr J says about how hed like proof from the 
underwriter that he received payments for two successful unemployment claims on his PPI 
policy. This is something he can take up with the underwriter if he would like. But I have no 
evidence to make me think these payments werent made and I can see Mr J and Mrs N 
refer in their PPI questionnaire to the claims as having been paid (minus the first 30 days). 
So Mr Js comments on this dont change any of the conclusions Ive reached on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 23 September 2020, this 
PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J and Mrs N.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr J and Mrs N any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman