DRN-2824684
The complaint
Company M (M) complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
unfairly declined its commercial legal expenses insurance claim.
The details of this dispute are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything in 
detail again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to not to uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions state that DAS will cover insured perils so long as:
the Date of Occurrence of the Insured Incident happens during the Period of 
Insurance and within the Territorial Limits
The term date of occurrence is further defined as:
For civil casesthe Date of Occurrence is when the cause of action first accrued 
[My emphasis added].
M took out its policy with DAS on 31 May 2018. However, its dispute with the company for 
which it was subcontracted to carry out work (B) began when it first notified M of defective 
workmanship on 31 July 2017. This notice was also followed up with a further two notices 
sent by B on 4 January 2018 and 10 January 2018, which reiterated the concerns set out in 
the original notice. 
However, the dispute itself is not the cause of action. In this instance, the cause of action 
would be the alleged defective workmanship carried out by M between July 2016 and 
May 2017. Therefore, Im satisfied that cause of action pre-dates the policys inception of 
31 May 2018.
I understand that M says it was not aware of any claim when it took out the policy with DAS, 
as it was under the impression that its dispute with B had been resolved. It submits that the 
date of occurrence should therefore be taken as the date it was made aware of the legal 
dispute by Bs solicitors. However, the date of occurrence in this case is not dependent upon 
the policyholders knowledge of the issue and neither is the accrual of the cause of action 
itself. The policy term is clear that the date of occurrence will be taken as the date the cause 
of action first accrued. And in these circumstances, I consider it fair for the term to be applied 
in this way.
In this case, the dispute had arisen from an alleged breach of contract and/or negligence of 
M in the way it completed the work it was contracted to do, which B claims is defective. I 
appreciate that M may fundamentally disagree that its work was defective. But this ultimately 
goes to the heart of the legal dispute. The fact is that B has alleged that M breached its 
obligations with regards to the standard and requirements of the work it carried out. That is 
the cause of action B is now pursuing so, accordingly, the date the alleged defective work 
was carried out is the event that has ultimately led to the claim being made in June 2020 and 
is therefore the date of occurrence for the purposes of the claim.
Its important to note that insurance is designed to cover unforeseen and fortuitous events. In 
this case, M had taken out a claims occurring policy, which means it will only cover claims 
that occur during the period of insurance. This is why insurers will often designate the date of 
occurrence as the date the cause of action accrued with these sorts of policies, so as to 
prevent policyholders from insuring themselves against a risk that they couldve reasonably 
foreseen. I accept its possible that M may have thought this matter wouldnt result in a legal 
claim being made. But as Ive set out above, its own knowledge on this matter is irrelevant, 
as its the accrual of the cause of action that is the key consideration here. And Im satisfied 
that DAS have acted reasonably by declining Ms claim on the basis that the incident leading 
to the claim occurred before it took out the cover in May 2018.
I also note that prior to taking out its policy with DAS, M had another legal expenses policy in 
place on a claims made basis (i.e. where it will cover any claim made within the policy 
period regardless of when the alleged breach or cause of action accrued), which is the 
subject of a separate complaint being considered by this service. But when M took out its 
policy with DAS, it changed the basis of cover to claims occurring instead of taking out 
another claims made policy (which ultimately may have provided cover for the claim it is now 
making). 
When considering consumer contracts, there are certain instances where it may not be 
considered fair for an insurer to decline a claim where there is continuous cover and the 
policyholder was unaware of the cover changing from a claims made to a claims occurring 
policy. But M is not a consumer in this instance, it is a business that took out a commercial 
insurance policy. And as a business, it would be expected to ensure that it was taking out 
the right type of insurance.
I note that M has raised concerns that it was mis-sold its legal expenses policy. But DAS 
was not involved with the selling of the policy, so I cannot comment on such matters within 
this decision. However, it may be the case that M has a valid complaint about being sold a 
claims occurring rather than claims made policy, if that has now resulted in it having no 
cover for its claim. But it would need to direct any such concerns to the party responsible for 
selling the policy (such as its broker) in the first instance.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to M, but in the circumstances, I dont 
consider that DAS has done anything wrong, so I wont be directing them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman