The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought the PPI in 1990. Mr and Mrs M recall the sale taking place during a 
meeting although Santander is unable to confirm the sales channel. Although it was a joint 
mortgage, the policy only covered Mr M.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Santander no longer has any point of sale documents, which is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. However, this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. Therefore, 
in reaching my decision, I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs M say they werent given a choice about having the PPI and were told that it 
came as part of the mortgage. From what we know of Santanders sales processes at the 
time, the PPI was normally presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade 
me that something different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would have known they had a 
choice about buying the policy. It seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing 
that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI 
to them, it needed to ensure that it met their needs.
The policy did not cover periods of sickness resulting from pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr M has provided a copy of an NHS letter from 2013 which mentions that he was first 
diagnosed with a particular medical condition around 1983.
DRN-1937040As Mr M had a pre-existing medical condition, Santander should not have recommended the 
policy. Santander says the exclusions would have been discussed with Mr and Mrs M at the 
time, although it hasnt been able to provide any evidence of this. Overall, I find it unlikely in 
the circumstances that Mr and Mrs M would have gone ahead with buying the policy if they 
had understood that Mr Ms pre-existing condition would not be covered. I dont think they 
would have considered it to be good value for money in their situation. It follows that I uphold 
the complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Therefore, Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what
he got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs M.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they a sk for one.
My final decision
My decision is th at I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require SantanderUK Plc to pay 
fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman