DRN-3410381
The complaint
Miss G has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly turned 
down a claim on her business interruption insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G held a business protection insurance policy with AIG. Miss G claimed on her policy 
after her business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
AIG turned down Miss Gs claim. It said while the policy provided cover for a list of specified 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the covered diseases. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Miss G brought her complaint to our service. She thought it 
was unfair that the policy hadnt paid out when her business had incurred a loss due to 
something that wasnt her fault. Miss G said that Covid-19 couldnt be listed on the policy as 
it wasnt in existence when the policy was taken out. She also referred to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case. Miss G said that in 
addition to the interruption to her business shed also experienced consequential losses 
such as the cost of cleaning products and protective wear. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think the policy provided cover. 
Miss G asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G said shes claiming for more than one period of lockdown. In this decision I am only 
make a finding on Miss Gs claim for the lockdown period which commenced in March 2020.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Miss Gs business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Miss Gs claim. 
Specified disease
The relevant part of this extension covers Miss Gs business for losses arising from 
restrictions on the use of her premises due to any occurrence of a specified disease at her 
premises. The policy sets out a specified list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Miss Gs policy is 
not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is 
nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Miss Gs claim or any 
consequential losses.
Prevention of access
This extension covers the interruption or interference with Miss Gs business as a result of:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the premises or the property, which 
prevents or hinders the use of the premises or the property or access thereto, 
regardless of whether the premises or property is damaged
Damage is defined as physical loss or destruction of or physical damage to tangible 
property.
For this to provide cover, the interruption or interference with Miss Gs business would 
need to be due to damage to property in the vicinity of her premises or property which 
prevented or hindered the use of, or access to, her premises or property. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the interruption to Miss Gs business was as a result of 
damage to property in the vicinity of her property or premises. Therefore, this doesnt 
provide cover for Miss Gs claim or any consequential losses. 
FCA test case
Miss G has referred to the test case in support of why her claim should be paid. 
However, whether a claim should be paid depends on the wording within the policy and 
in this particular case the outcome of the test case doesnt impact Miss Gs claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Miss G was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I cant fairly require AIG to pay her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman