DRN-3727041
The complaint
Mr R complains the quality of the work carried out by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) to his 
roof under his Home Emergency policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In May 2021 Mr R contacted his home insurance company to consider a claim for 
damage to the inside of his property.
Mr R also contacted his home emergency provider, Aviva.
Avivas contractors carried out a temporary repair to Mr Rs roof.
Mr Rs home insurance company declined a claim for the internal damage to the 
property, and a complaint about this has been dealt with by this service.
Mr R tells us Avivas contractors caused damage to his roof causing leaks. He adds 
the roof wasnt leaking before Avivas contractors attended.
Aviva say it identified a problem with the roof and carried out a temporary repair. It 
says its contractors did not cause damage to the roof and add that it was poorly 
maintained and been the subject of a previous claim.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service, and it wasnt upheld.
Our investigator felt Aviva had acted fairly in completing a temporary repair under the 
home emergency policy and that a more permanent repair wouldve required 
significant work costing more than the policy limit for emergency repairs. She also 
said there was no evidence to suggest Aviva had caused damage to the roof and that 
on balance she felt the condition of the roof had caused the leak.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
There is some disagreement about the sequence of events, and potentially some confusion 
given the involvement of the home insurance company, and its surveyor, along with the 
home emergency insurers and its contractors. I note the home insurance surveyor mentions 
temporary repairs had been carried out to the roof involving the application of roof sealant to 
cement flashings, so Im satisfied Avivas home emergency contractors did carry our repairs 
prior to an inspection by the home insurers.
I note Aviva didnt carry out a permanent repair to the roof, but Im satisfied it met its 
obligations under the home emergency policy in that it carried out temporary repairs. And 
Ive seen testimony as to the extent of work that would be required to carry out an effective 
and lasting repair. I note the policy limit for repairs is £1,000 and a permeant repair would 
cost more than that.
At the heart of this complaint is a disagreement as to whether Avivas home emergency 
contractors caused damage to the roof when it carried out a temporary repair. I cannot be 
certain what happened, so I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive not seen any evidence to say Avivas contractors caused damage through being 
careless or negligent. Its not unusual for a roofing contractor to need to walk on a roof to 
identify an issue and carry out a temporary repair as it has done in this case. Ive also 
considered comments from Avivas contractors about the condition of the roof, including 
cracking in the cement between the wall and roof and rotten battens and poor maintenance. 
Mr R says his roof wasnt leaking before Avivas contractors attended the property, but hes 
not provided any independent evidence that Aviva caused damage when they climbed on 
the roof. On balance, Im more persuaded there were issues with the roof before Aviva 
carried out the temporary repairs, and it is these issues that are the cause of the leaks.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman