DRN-2315650
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva failed to provide her with a hire car whilst her own car was being 
repaired after she made a claim.
What happened
Mrs R has a car insurance policy with Aviva.
She says her car was damaged after a third party collided with it whilst it was parked. She 
made a claim to Aviva and her car was taken in for repairs.
The repairs took 12 days to complete. Mrs R says Aviva promised her a hire car for that 
period, but then failed to provide one.
Mrs R says she found out she wouldnt be getting a hire car on the morning shed taken her 
car in for repair  and after the garage which carried out the repairs offered her a courtesy 
car for free. She says she turned down this offer on the basis that she expected Aviva to 
provide a car that morning.
This was more inconvenient than it might otherwise have been because Mrs R had an 
important hospital appointment later that same day at a hospital around 18 miles away. 
Mrs R says she took the bus to the appointment but got soaking wet as a result.
Mrs R made a complaint to Aviva. They didnt uphold it. They said Mrs Rs policy didnt cover 
the provision of a courtesy car during repairs. And they said theyd offered to pay for a taxi 
for Mrs R to get to and from her hospital appointment on the day in question.
Mrs R wasnt happy with this response and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. 
Mrs R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She thinks Aviva 
should pay her the amount the hire car would have cost - £20 per day  for the 12 days in 
question  and add compensation for her trouble and upset to bring the total to £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mrs Rs policy doesnt include cover for a courtesy car 
whilst any repairs are being carried out. Its clear from the policy schedule that Mrs R opted 
out of having this cover.
As I understand it, courtesy cars may sometimes be offered in these circumstances by the 
third partys insurer. And they do that so they dont become liable for any hire costs the 
affected driver has incurred if and when its agreed that its their insured party thats at fault.
The complicating factor in this case is that the third partys insurer was also Aviva. So, when 
they offered the courtesy car to Mrs R, they were essentially acting as the third partys 
insurer. And they were doing so on the basis of their assessment of the balance of risk in 
terms of the final cost of the claim.
It might have been helpful if Aviva had pointed that out to Mrs R  theres no evidence to 
suggest they did in all of the contact notes relating to the claim or any other correspondence 
Aviva have provided to us.
However, ultimately, whether they told Mrs R about that or not, they werent ever under any 
obligation  either as Mrs Rs insurer or as the third partys insurer  to provide a courtesy 
car.
Nonetheless, when Mrs R contacted Aviva  as her insurer  after the car wasnt delivered, 
she was entitled to expect good service from them. So, I am interested in what passed 
between Mrs R and Aviva when she called them.
I should say at the outset that the decision not to provide the car was made by the car hire 
company, not by Aviva. They did so because of a dispute with a member of Mrs Rs family 
who lives at the same address. 
Avivas records show that they were told about this  by the car hire company  only in the 
hour or so before the car was due to be delivered. At that point, they tried to persuade the 
car hire company to deliver a car, but without success.
Theres also evidence they tried to contact Mrs R at that point but were unsuccessful. They 
were also told the car hire company had tried to do the same. 
Mrs R says she doubts this is true, but its apparent form Avivas records  and Mrs R 
agrees  that she spoke to Aviva within half an hour or so of the supposed delivery time.
Theres also no dispute that Aviva then offered to pay for a taxi to take Mrs R to her 
appointment. Mrs R chose not to take up this offer, despite being assured that the call was 
recorded, and any promises Aviva made would be honoured.
So, Im satisfied Aviva did all they could reasonably do to try to help Mrs R on the morning in 
question. It wasnt Avivas fault that the car hire firm refused to supply Mrs R with a car - and 
they did their best to mitigate any issues this caused for Mrs R on the day.
I know Aviva effectively changed their mind about whether theyd provide a courtesy car, 
albeit they were acting as the third partys insurer when they did so. But, when Mrs R 
contacted them, as their customer, they took immediate steps to offer her help so that she 
wasnt unduly inconvenienced by this.
Mrs R hasnt said how she was inconvenienced by the lack of a courtesy car for the 
remaining time her car was in for repairs. Shes certainly not referred in her complaint to any 
specific issues or any costs she incurred as a result. 
She thinks Aviva should have told her beforehand that she had the option of a courtesy car 
from the garage which carried out the repairs. She says shes aware Aviva have an 
arrangement with them to do that. 
However, I think that arrangement relates to courtesy cars for Avivas customers who have 
courtesy car cover. And Aviva use the car hire company that refused to deliver a car to Mrs R as and when theyre providing a car to a third party insurers customer. They say they 
dont use alternative suppliers for this, and I have no reason to doubt that.
Mrs R says she was told the garage provide that service for all of their customers. If so, 
thats a matter between them and their customers, and not for Aviva to comment on or to 
offer on the garages behalf. 
Im also satisfied that if the garage did say that, Mrs R could have mitigated any possible 
inconvenience of not having a car from Aviva by going back to the garage the same day and 
taking them up on their offer.
In summary, I dont think Aviva have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mrs R in the way they handled this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont; uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman