DRN-3813439
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) has declined her claim for the cost of treatment for her dog on the ground that it is 
excluded by endorsements relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
What happened
Miss H insured her dog, who Ill refer to as F, with C&G with effect from 4 January 2019. 
In 2021, F was treated for a 'Right Medial Humeral Condylar Fracture', and Miss H made a 
claim under her policy for the significant cost of this treatment.
C&G reviewed Fs previous veterinary history. This showed that on several occasions prior 
to the inception of the policy, F had issues with his front left leg. It therefore applied a 
number of endorsements to Fs policy including:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Anything to do with the Front Left Leg 
Lameness that Occurred on 27 February 2017 and Associated Conditions with effect 
from 04 January 2021. 
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Both Elbows with effect from 04 January 
2021. 
C&G says it retrospectively applied these in accordance with its underwriting criteria when it 
was made aware of the pre-existing conditions that it says Miss H didnt disclose when she 
purchased the policy. 
Miss H referred C&G to a letter from Fs vet, and a report from a specialist radiographer who 
examined a number of X-rays of Fs leg. These both supported her argument that Fs 
fracture was not caused by a pre-existing condition and there were no abnormalities in Fs 
right elbow.
C&G says it declined Miss Hs claim in reliance on the above endorsements. It did this by 
reference to the following term of the policy:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
A Pre-Existing Condition is defined as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
C&G maintains that Fs fracture fell within the terms of the endorsements.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with C&Gs rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint, but then after re-consideration did 
so.  She didnt believe C&G had acted fairly in applying the endorsements so her view was 
that it wouldnt be fair decline the claim.
C&G doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint and Ill give my reasons.
Ive considered firstly whether or not C&G has acted fairly in adding the endorsements upon 
which it relies to decline Miss Hs claim. 
I dont consider that Miss H was asked any direct questions about Fs medical history when 
she took out her policy. She therefore didnt misrepresent Fs health. C&G cant therefore 
rely on the remedy available to it under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), to retrospectively add an endorsement or exclusion it 
wouldve applied at policy inception had it known about the pre-existing medical condition at 
that time.
But in my view C&G can rely upon its right under the General Exclusion that Ive quoted 
above to add reasonable endorsements. Given Fs history of pre-existing issues with his left 
front leg over a number of years, I think it is reasonable for C&G to have added the 
endorsement relating to any future left leg issues. But I can see no basis for adding the 
endorsement that excludes cover for both elbows. There is no evidence that F suffered any 
problems with his right elbow before policy inception and this is confirmed by the specialist 
radiographer who examined Fs X-rays and concluded, referring to Fs right elbow:
There are no clinically significant abnormalities detected in the elbow joint or in the 
humerus or antebrachium. There is no evidence of acute or congenital injury. No soft 
tissue swelling is seen in the study. 
C&G has made reference to Bilateral Conditions, but I consider this is relevant only to the 
application of the Benefit Limit. The policy states that when applying the Benefit Limit and 
the terms of the policy, any treatment for Bilateral Conditions will be considered as one 
condition, regardless of when the treatment occurred. It doesnt state that an issue with one 
body part, of which a pet has two, is to be treated as applying equally to the other.
So my first conclusion is that it is unreasonable for C&G to have introduced any 
endorsement relating to Fs right leg.  
But even if I hadnt come to this conclusion, I wouldve upheld Miss Hs complaint on a 
second ground. In my view C&G hasnt acted fairly in relying upon the specific endorsements that Ive quoted 
above.
Ive taken into account the following policy term:
Veterinary Fees
 What is not insured?
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms
before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period
The treatment being claimed for was for a fracture. A fracture is not a pre-existing condition 
 it is an accidental injury, but it can only relate to a pre-existing condition if that condition 
creates a pre-disposition to the accidental injury. 
Fs vet has addressed this. He has stated (with his emphasis retained):
From the radiographs taken back in 2017 when the left elbow was repaired due to a 
fracture, no significant abnormalities were detected in the right elbow according 
to a radiology specialist from [ Specialists] which has been attached for you to 
review.
Elbow dysplasia could be a condition which can affect BOTH elbows, and therefore 
it would be a pre-existing condition. It is well known it can cause severe osteoarthritis 
(OA) in both elbows, as mentioned from his medical records in 2019. Elbow 
radiographs is not a sensitive diagnostic method to confirm/rule out elbow dysplasia 
in the right elbow. A CT scan of the elbow should have been performed to have a 
better idea if elbow dysplasia was present back in 2017. However, taking into 
consideration the signalment [breed and age] and the clinical and radiographic signs, 
it is fair to assume F suffered from bilateral elbow dysplasia, especially they 
mentioned severe OA in the right elbow in 2019, according to the LV medical 
records.
Bilateral elbow dysplasia WILL NOT predispose any dog to have a fracture in 
the elbow (dogs do not get spontaneous fractures from elbow osteoarthritis). Elbow 
dysplasia can cause pain (and therefore a lameness) due to OA, as mentioned in 
2019 from the medical records of the LV.
Therefore, we do not currently have any radiographic evidence from Fs medical and 
radiographic records to confirm that F was suffering from any pre-existing condition 
that predispose him to an intracondylar fracture on that right elbow (such as Humeral 
Intracondylar Fissure or HIF, also known as IOHC or incomplete ossification of the 
humeral condyle)
Having taken this into account and having seen no alternative medical opinion from C&G, 
my conclusion is that there is no connection between the fracture of Fs right front leg and 
any pre-existing condition affecting his right leg.
So on two grounds I have concluded that C&G has not acted fairly in declining Miss Hs 
claim. Im therefore going to require C&G to settle it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint.I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Miss Hs claim 
subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy. If Miss H has already paid to the vet 
any part of the sum claimed, this should be reimbursed to her.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to pay Miss H  
interest on any sum so paid to her by way of reimbursement at the simple rate of 8% from 
the date she made payment to the date that payment is made to her. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss H a tax deduction certificate if Miss H asks for 
one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman