DRN-3302794
The complaint
Miss E has complained about advice she received to open a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) with Brooklands SIPP and subsequently invest in what she now considers to be 
unsuitable high risk investments. Miss E says Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
(Quilter) is responsible for the advice and should compensate her for the financial loss she 
has suffered. At the time of the events, Quilter was known as Positive Solutions and so Ill 
refer to Positive Solutions in this decision.
What happened
Miss E says she was advised by an adviser - Mr P - to transfer two personal pensions to a 
SIPP with Brooklands. Mr P was a Registered Individual (RI) for Positive Solutions. So he 
was an agent of Positive Solutions and authorised to give advice on its behalf. He ceased to 
be an RI of Positive Solutions in December 2012.
Miss Es previous pensions were with Hartford (which held most of the funds) and Aviva. 
There is no suitability report or recommendations letter evidencing the advice. But the 
application for the switch of the pensions to the SIPP was made on 6 December 2010. 
Around £280,000 was switched to the SIPP and invested in a bond with Skandia from 
February 2011 onwards. This appears to be a type of bond that held managed funds  i.e. 
funds that were traded at fairly regular intervals on the instructions of an adviser.
Miss E realised in 2015 that the investments in the bond had lost a lot of money and it is this 
loss that she now complains about. She thinks that Positive Solutions should pay her 
compensation for the advice given by Mr P.
The following is a brief history of whats happened since the complaint was referred to our 
service.
Positive Solutions thought that the complaint had been submitted too late. But one of our 
ombudsmen issued a decision concluding that Miss E had actually complained in 2015 and 
therefore submitted her complaint within our time limits.
Positive Solutions also said it wasnt responsible for the acts being complained about as 
Mr P had acted outside of the authority given to him in his contract with Positive Solutions 
and was instead acting in a personal capacity.
One of our investigators considered this point and issued an opinion and agreed that Mr P 
had not complied with the provisions of the contract with Positive Solutions. But, she said 
Positive Solutions had placed Mr P in a position which would, in the outside world, generally 
be regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Miss E had complained about. She said 
that Miss E had relied on this representation and therefore her view was that Positive 
Solutions was responsible for the advice given in December 2010 to switch pensions to the 
SIPP on the basis of the common law principle of apparent authority. She thought that this 
switch was unsuitable as the charges were probably more expensive than her previous 
pension plans through which similar investments to those in the bond could have been 
made.
However, the investigator did not believe that Positive Solutions was responsible for the 
bond or any investments held within the bond. She said that the evidence suggested that, by 
January 2011, Mr P was working in a personal capacity  separate to his role with Positive 
Solutions. She based this on the following evidence:
On 6 January 2011, Mr P emailed Miss E from an email with a usonline domain 
name to let her know he was in the process of moving away from Positive Solutions, 
he said:
I am in the process of moving from Positive Solutions and will hopefully be away in 
the next couple of months. I have decided to go directly authorised with the FSA in 
relation to my UK financial services business and will be using this e mail address for 
any ongoing correspondence. As my business is now so much broader in scope than 
traditional IFAs, when I include the tax planning solutions and offshore work, I have 
been finding working through Positive Solutions quite restrictive as they have to work 
to the lowest common denominator of financial adviser..
On 20 January 2011, Mr P emailed Miss E this time using an email with a Synergi 
domain name:
Another new e mail address!! I dont have access to my [usonline email address] 
while I am in Cairo and this is the company that I work for through when I am here.
An application for the Skandia bond for Miss Es Brooklands SIPP was completed by 
Mr P on 4 February 2011. The adviser was recorded as Mr P of Synergi Investment 
Ltd - based in Cairo. The regulatory body and authorisation number were left blank. A 
range of different funds were listed to be invested in from the bond.
The Skandia bond key features document outlined a commission of £16,800 would 
be paid to Synergi for arranging the bond. On 22 February 2011, the bond application 
was accepted, and policy documents provided.
So the investigator thought that Positive Solutions should compensate Miss E for the SIPP 
charges, but not any investment losses or any investment related charges in the bond. She 
also said that Positive Solutions should pay Miss E £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to her by the unsuitable advice.
Both Positive Solutions and Miss E accepted the investigators findings and proceeded to try 
and calculate what compensation was due to Miss E. But agreement on the calculation could 
not be reached and I was asked to issue a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 December 2021. In brief, my findings were that:
Positive Solutions was responsible for the advice given by Mr P for Ms E to switch 
her pensions to the SIPP;
Mr P had also likely given advice to Miss E about the bond and initial investment 
choices  so Positive Solutions was also responsible for the initial investments and 
charges associated with the bond.But Positive Solutions wasnt responsible for any investments in the bond after July 
2011 as Mr P was not operating as a Positive Solutions agent at that time and any 
advice about the investments could not be linked back to Positive Solutions.
The advice given about the SIPP, bond and initial investments was unsuitable and so 
Positive Solutions should compensate Miss E for losses arising from SIPP and bond 
charges throughout the period Miss E was in the SIPP and bond. Positive Solutions 
should also compensate Miss E for losses from the initial investments until July 2011.
Positive Solutions didnt agree with my findings. It said:
Positive Solutions couldnt be responsible for the bond as the application for the bond 
clearly showed that Mr P was working for Synergi not Positive Solutions  at the 
time it was submitted.
Even if Mr P had given advice to Miss E about the bond wearing his Positive 
Solutions hat, liability cant attach back to Positive Solutions if the bond and 
investments had been transacted by a different legal entity.
Positive Solutions couldnt be held responsible for matters executed and advised by 
Mr P whilst working for Synergi for a period of 11 years. Miss E also knew about the 
charges from as far back as 2015.
Positive Solutions was only responsible for the initial transfer to the SIPP from the 
personal pensions. That advice was suitable as Miss Es previous Hartford scheme 
was an expensive one. The recommendation of UK registered investment funds was 
also appropriate and in line with Miss Es attitude to investment risk. That was 
reflected by the fact that even the provisional decision proposed calculating redress 
using an index which tracks equity backed funds  i.e. similar to the investments 
Miss E held in the bond.
Miss E would have been aware of the charges associated with the investment from 
the outset.
Compensation should take account of any indicative charges that Miss E would have 
incurred for a suitable alternative investment.
The provisional decision applied 8% additional interest. This was unfair as Miss E 
could never have achieved this level of return. 
There have also been communications between me and the parties about the tax treatment 
of the compensation. I will explain this below.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can
consider this complaint.
I have previously explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint against 
Positive Solutions. 
The focus of Positive Solutions arguments are now whether it is fair and reasonable for it to 
be accountable for all the losses suffered by Miss E. That is fundamentally a merits point 
which I will address later.But for the sake of completeness, on jurisdiction, my findings are as follows:
For the avoidance of doubt I agree with the previous ombudsmans decision that this 
case is not time barred as Miss E complained in 2015  thats within our time limit 
rules as the advice from Mr P was given in 2010.
There is documentary evidence in the form of correspondence and the SIPP 
application with Brooklands that Mr P advised Miss E about the switch in December 
2010 as a Positive Solutions adviser. The SIPP application is dated 6 December 
2010. 
In giving this advice, Mr P may have breached his contract with Positive Solutions as 
it authorised him to only give advice about products offered by approved institutions. 
Brooklands was not an approved institution and it appears that the advice and 
arrangements were not channelled through Positive Solutions as might ordinarily be 
expected.
But I note that both Aviva and Skandia were approved institutions. So it appears that 
some aspects of the advice might be said to be within the actual authority given to 
Mr P by Positive Solutions in its contract. 
In any event, I dont need to make a finding of fact about whether there was a breach 
of the agreement. Thats because I am of the view that Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the advice based on the common law principle of apparent authority.
Positive Solutions represented to Miss E that Mr P was authorised to give the advice 
he gave to her and make the arrangements he did.
I think its likely that Miss E proceeded with the advice and arrangements to open the 
SIPP in order to invest in the Skandia bond on the basis that Mr P was acting as the 
agent of Positive Solutions with authority from Positive Solutions so to act. In other 
words, Miss E reasonably relied on Positive Solutions representation that Mr P was 
authorised to give the advice he gave. 
I agree that there was a break in the services provided by Mr P before he ceased to 
officially be a RI of Positive Solutions in December 2012. He began operating as 
Synergi (which had no connection with Positive Solutions) at some point in 2011. The 
question is  when exactly did he cease to wear his Positive Solutions hat and 
when did he start wearing his Synergi hat?
On 6 January 2011 he signalled to Miss E his intention to move to his own directly 
authorised business in the next couple of months. But only a month later the bond 
application was signed using his Synergi details in the adviser section. So I think that 
by 6 February 2011, Mr P was wearing his Synergi hat and acting independently of 
Positive Solutions.
But I dont think it is as simple as saying that Positive Solutions is responsible for the 
advice to switch to the SIPP in December 2010 and not the bond or investments that 
followed as they all took place on or after 6 February 2011. There is some overlap 
that must be accounted for.There is no record of the advice that was given in December 2010. So I dont know 
for certain what recommendations were given by Mr P and I have based my decision 
on the balance of probabilities.
I think its likely that Mr P did recommend that the funds in the SIPP would be used in 
a Skandia bond and that this would be used in turn to make investments in a range of 
funds. After all, the SIPP was simply a wrapper to hold investments. I think its 
unlikely that Mr P would have recommended that Miss E undertake the switch of two 
personal pensions involving significant sums of money without advising her about 
what use the SIPP should be put to.
There is also no evidence that Mr P later in January or February 2011 gave 
completely separate advice to Miss E about the Skandia bond and subsequent 
investments wearing his Synergi hat. The emails referred to above appear to all be 
informal and dont make new recommendations.
Furthermore, Mr P ticked a box in the Skandia bond application form (which included 
a list of initial underlying investment choices) that confirmed that he had advised 
Miss P about the investments. He used his Synergi details on the form but, 
importantly, he said on the form that the advice was given on 8 December 2010. That 
isnt the exact date of the SIPP application form, but it is close. And it is before he 
said to Miss E that he was moving to his own business that was separate to Positive 
Solutions.
So, my conclusion is that Mr P, in December 2010, advised Miss E to switch her Hartford 
and Aviva personal pensions to the Brooklands SIPP to make an investment in various funds 
via the Skandia bond  and did so whilst wearing his Positive Solutions hat. Positive 
Solutions accepted responsibility for this advice on the basis of the common law principle of 
apparent authority. So we have jurisdiction to consider Miss Es complaint about this advice. 
I acknowledge that the arrangements were made for the bond and investments when Mr P 
was wearing his Synergi hat. But I dont accept Positive Solutions argument that this means 
that Synergi is solely responsible for the advice about the bond and initial investments. It 
simply means that there are two parties potentially responsible for what has happened. It 
does not mean that I dont have jurisdiction to consider the advice that I think was given by 
Mr E whilst representing Positive Solutions. I will discuss this further in my findings on the 
merits of the complaint below.
However, Positive Solutions isnt responsible for everything that followed. As Ive said above, 
the Skandia bond was used to make investments that were regularly traded. After Miss Es 
bond was initially opened and investments made in February 2011, the first instructions to 
trade funds took place on 27 July 2011. Mr P was likely operating as Synergi at this point 
and theres no evidence he used his Positive Solutions hat at all in giving advice or making 
arrangements. Mr P gave instructions to Skandia for trades in Miss Es bond  but its not 
clear whether he consulted with Miss E on each occasion or went ahead and arranged these 
trades on her behalf without giving advice.
Either way, I dont think it can be concluded that Positive Solutions is responsible for any 
investments within the bond from this point or thereafter. I think Mr P was acting in a 
completely separate capacity when giving advice or making arrangements for these 
subsequent trades. There is no link to anything he might have done with his Positive 
Solutions hat. Other advisers were involved in giving investment advice after 2015 too. So 
Positive Solutions isnt responsible for any investment losses from July 2011 onwards. 
So, my conclusion on jurisdiction is that Positive Solutions accepted responsibility for: the initial advice to switch her two personal pensions to the Brooklands SIPP; and
the advice to invest via the Skandia bond; and
the initial investment choices in the bond; but not the investments after 27 July 2011.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In giving advice to Miss E, Mr P needed to make a recommendation that was consistent with 
her investment objectives, which ought to have been assessed by reference to her personal 
and financial circumstances. He should have carried out a fact find of her circumstances and 
investment experience and given a written recommendation with reasons. There is no record 
that Mr P did any of this before recommending the SIPP and bond. So, the starting point is 
that Mr P did not comply with the regulatory standards required of him.
Miss E doesnt appear to be a sophisticated investor and has consistently said that she 
wanted to invest in low risk products. I think that is supported by emails Ive seen (although 
sent much later in 2015) where she asks Mr P why her funds cant simply be left in a bank 
account. She was 59 years old at the time of the advice, and the SIPP application showed 
she intended to retire at 65.
Miss Es Hartford pension was relatively expensive as it had charges as part of a guaranteed 
income aspect of the plan. Its not clear how important this guarantee was to Miss E at the 
time, but I think it probably wasnt critical as she was clearly open to changing her pensions 
in 2010 when she was advised by Mr P. I think its more likely that Miss E wanted to change 
to a lower cost pension, consolidating both her Aviva and Hartford plans and invest in 
relatively cautious lower risk funds. I dont think she wanted or needed access to specific 
funds that were only available via a specific bond arrangement.
I disagree with Positive Solutions arguments that the advice from Mr P met this objective. 
The Brooklands SIPP charges may have been, in isolation, cheaper than the Hartford plan. 
But the arrangement with Brooklands involved set up costs with Skandia, ongoing fixed bond 
charges and a very large initial payment to the adviser (£16,800)  equivalent to 6% of 
Miss Ps fund. I acknowledge that this payment wasnt deducted from the initial sum invested 
by Miss E and was instead paid by Skandia to the adviser. But it was indirectly paid by Miss 
E through the general bond charges. There were also high exit costs. On any objective 
analysis, the arrangement was very expensive.
The investments initially chosen within the bond were diverse and mainstream  but they 
were not, overall, suitable for Miss E as there were a higher proportion of riskier funds that 
were selected. They dont appear to have caused the losses that Miss E suffered in 
subsequent years, but nevertheless I think the initial selections were more suited to 
someone who had a higher risk appetite  not a cautious investor like Miss E.
So, I dont think Mr P gave Miss E suitable advice even if Miss E was aware (or ought to 
have been aware) of the charges from any key features documents she may have been 
sent. I think Mr P should have recommended a low cost pension plan to be invested in 
relatively cautious funds in December 2010. But, as Ive explained above and as set out 
below in the putting things right section of my decision, this doesnt mean that Positive 
Solutions is responsible for all the losses Miss E has suffered.
Positive Solutions doesnt accept that it should be responsible for any of the bond charges 
and investment losses given the later clear involvement of Mr P wearing his Synergy hat in the arrangements for the bond and initial investments. But in this decision, Im considering 
Miss Es complaint about Positive Solutions  not the role of Synergi an unregulated party. 
While it was the case that Synergi was involved in the arrangements, Positive Solutions had 
its own distinct set of regulatory obligations when Mr P was acting as its agent and giving the 
advice he gave in December 2010. For the reasons Ive explained above, Mr P, and 
consequently Positive Solutions, failed to comply with these obligations. So, I consider it fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances for Positive Solutions to compensate Miss E in the 
manner I set out below. Positive Solutions can have the option to take an assignment of any 
rights of action Miss E has against Synergi in respect of the compensation award below 
before compensation is paid by Positive Solutions. Compensation could be made contingent 
upon Miss Es acceptance of this term of settlement. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss E should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
As explained above, Miss E did not receive suitable advice to take out the SIPP and bond 
and the initial investments within the Skandia bond did not match her risk profile. But 
Positive Solutions isnt responsible for everything that happened thereafter.
In the circumstances, I think its fair to ask Positive Solutions to pay Miss E compensation for 
the bond charges and some investment losses (if there were any). 
I understand that Miss E closed the bond and SIPP in 2019 after she took drawdown of the 
total pension. 
Ill explain how Positive Solutions should compensate Miss E below.
The initial investments
Miss E should be compensated for any investment loss she incurred within the bond up to 
27 July 2011. This is the date of the first subsequent trades within the bond.
Positive Solutions isnt responsible for any investment losses and fund specific charges 
within the bond from 27 July 2011 onwards. So 27 July 2011 is the appropriate end point 
for any investment losses and fund specific charges arising from the bond. 
Miss E would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Miss E's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
The charges for the bond
I think it is also fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to calculate all general and fixed 
costs and charges incurred with the bond from the start date to the date Miss E closed the 
bond in 2019 (i.e. not limited to 27 July 2011) and pay her an amount equal to what this 
would have been worth had the same been reinvested on the dates they were incurred. 
I think this is fair because I dont think Miss E should ever have been advised to take out the 
bond; and the general and fixed charges she incurred throughout the life of the bond can be 
linked back to the initial advice given to Miss E in December 2010 by Mr P whilst he was 
representing Positive Solutions. I have considered whether it would be fair to cap the charges compensation up to 2015. 
Thats because its clear that Miss E was aware of problems with the arrangement and 
complained about this in November 2015 (as decided by the previous ombudsman in his 
decision on jurisdiction). The evidence from the SIPP and bond operators also suggests that 
from around this time, Miss E instructed a number of different professional advisers  all of 
whom gave advice about the arrangement. 
However, Miss E was required to pay 1.1% bond fees per year. And after corresponding with 
the parties and reviewing the evidence further, I accept that the large surrender fee for the 
bond that would have been payable in 2015 (4.4%) was effectively the same as the sum 
Miss E ended up paying by staying in the arrangement until 2019. I appreciate that there 
would still have been other administration charges that could have been stopped by leaving 
the bond (£135 per quarter), but this would have had to be weighed up against the surrender 
fee and the costs of entering into new alternative investment arrangements. So, Miss E 
would not likely have paid significantly less by surrendering the bond early and ending the 
whole arrangement in 2015. She was effectively locked into paying at least the total sum of 
the bond fees (8.8% over the 8 year life of the bond) the moment that she entered the bond. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to pay Miss E for the fixed charges 
associated with the bond until 2019 when the arrangement was ended as its not likely she 
could have mitigated her losses by ending the arrangement earlier in 2015. 
I accept that Miss E might have had to pay some form of investment management charges 
for a suitable alternative to the bond. I dont know what these would have been. But, they 
would likely have been much cheaper than the bond charges. And, as Ill explain below, I 
think its fair to use an investment benchmark to calculate compensation for this.
For the avoidance of doubt, this element of the redress award should not include any fund 
specific management charges incurred after 27 July 2011 or any additional adviser charges 
agreed after this date. In other words, Positive Solutions does not need to include 
compensation for any non-fixed charges associated with specific investment funds chosen 
within the bond after 27 July 2011 as I dont think Positive Solutions can be said to be 
responsible for these given the involvement of other parties by this point.
Ive taken account of the fact that the SIPP fees were cheaper than Miss Es fees with her 
previous pension product providers. And even if Miss E was given unsuitable advice about 
the overall arrangement to enter the SIPP and bond, she would still likely have had to pay 
some form of fees for a suitable alternative pension arrangement. In the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Positive Solutions to refund Miss E her SIPP fees.
What must Positive Solutions do?
To compensate Miss E fairly, Positive Solutions must:
For the investment loss
Compare the performance of each of Miss E's initial investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
Positive Solutions should add interest as set out below.
What is being 
compensatedStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Monies invested in 
the Skandia bond in 
February 2011 
(including the effect 
of fund specific 
charges up to 27 
July 2011)No longer 
existsFor half the investment the 
FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index.
For the other half of the 
investment the monthly 
average rate for one-year 
fixed rate bonds as published 
by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates 
should be applied to the 
investment on an annually 
compounded basis.Date of 
investment27 July 2011
The calculation should include specific fund charges but exclude any general and 
fixed charges as this is separately addressed below.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is 
greater than the fair value, there is a gain. Losses and gains should then be 
combined. If there is an overall loss, that is the amount of compensation payable for 
the investments.
Actual value
This means the value of the monies invested at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Once the investment loss has been calculated (if there was one), Positive Solutions 
should calculate what the loss would be worth had the same sum been reinvested at 
the end date using the same benchmark until the SIPP was closed in 2019. From 
2019 onwards, interest at 8% simple per year on any loss from the end date to the 
date of settlement should be applied. This addresses Positives Solutions concern that an 8% interest award from 2011 
onwards would put Miss E in a better position than she would otherwise have been 
but for the unsuitable advice. 
Interest at 8% from the date the bond and SIPP was closed is still appropriate 
because from this point the 8% is to compensate Miss E for being deprived of these 
funds from that time (when she went into drawdown), not to replicate the investment 
growth she could have achieved in that time.
For the charges and costs associated with the bond
The bond charges and costs element of the compensation should be calculated as 
set out below as if the amounts paid by Miss E were reinvested at the date they were 
incurred and performed in line with the benchmark shown below. The value of the 
reinvested charges and costs is the compensation payable to Miss E.
If there is a gain on the investment loss (as calculated above), this can be offset 
against the compensation for the charges and costs.
What is being 
compensatedStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)
All general and 
fixed charges 
associated with the 
bond (but excluding 
fund specific 
charges after 27 
July 2011 and any 
additional adviser 
charges agreed 
after this date). No longer 
existsFor half the sum the 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total 
Return Index.
For the other half of the 
sum the monthly average 
rate for one-year fixed-
rate bonds as published 
by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month 
is that shown as at the 
end of the previous 
month. Those rates 
should be applied to the 
investment on an 
annually compounded 
basis.Date each 
cost and 
charge was 
incurredDate the bond 
was closed in 
2019
From the end date in 2019 onwards, interest at 8% simple per year on any loss to the 
date of settlement should be applied for the same reasons explained above.
Payment of compensation
 
Ordinarily we would ask Positive Solutions to pay compensation into Miss E's 
pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. However, it appears that Miss E no longer has a pension. So, Positive 
Solutions should pay the compensation amount direct to Miss E. Where compensation for a pension is paid as cash, we would normally allow the 
business to make a reduction to the compensation for the tax that the complainant 
would otherwise have paid. But Miss E lives overseas  and has done for some 
years. I think its fair to take this into account as my decision aims to put her in the 
position she would have been in had she not received the unsuitable advice. 
It isnt clear what tax Miss E would have paid on the compensation had she 
received it as a lump sum when she took the rest of her pension in 2019. Its also 
unclear whether Miss E will now have to pay income tax on compensation she is 
paid now when she submits her next return. 
So, the fairest way to resolve this is for Positive Solutions to appoint an agreed 
independent expert to assist it in its calculations of the tax position. If agreement 
cant be reached about who to appoint, Positive Solutions must ask the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales to nominate an independent expert.
The experts report should be shared with Miss E when the compensation is 
calculated. The compensation payable to Miss E should be reduced if tax would 
have been payable on the compensation had she taken it as a lump sum in 2019. 
The compensation should be increased if Miss E will pay more tax by receiving the 
compensation now as opposed to if shed had a larger lump sum in 2019. In other 
words, Miss E should neither be under compensated nor over compensated in real 
terms by receiving the compensation now as opposed to 2019. And the report 
should assume that Miss E would have adopted the most tax efficient route in taking 
the lump sum.
Positive Solutions may elect to ask Miss Es overseas accountant to compile the 
report. 
The cost of appointing and drawing up the experts report shall be met by Positive 
Solutions.
The ongoing addition of 8% interest shouldnt apply for any period of time where the 
only outstanding item required to complete the calculation is the provision of the 
experts report. To be clear, this temporary suspension of additional interest 
accruing on the redress only applies for the indicated period if Positive Solutions 
has already both commissioned the experts report and provided any information the 
expert might have requested from it. 
Positive Solutions may alternatively choose to pay Miss E the compensation without 
any deduction for tax and agree to pay Miss E an additional sum on receipt of 
evidence in the form of a tax return and payment receipt for any additional tax she 
pays on the compensation in her next tax return. 
Other matters
Positive Solutions should pay Miss E £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her 
by the unsuitable advice she received.
Positive Solutions should have the option of payment of this redress being 
contingent upon Miss E assigning any claim she may have against Synergi to 
Positive Solutions  but only in so far as Miss E is compensated here. The terms of 
the assignment should require Positive Solutions to account to Miss E for any 
amount it subsequently recovers against Synergi that exceeds the loss paid to 
Miss E. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive Solutions deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss E how much has been taken off. Positive Solutions should give Miss E a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Miss E asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is the benchmark set out above suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss E wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss Es risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Miss E into that position. It doesnt mean 
that Miss E wouldve invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Miss E couldve obtained from 
investments suited to her objectives and risk attitude.
Although Positive Solutions says that the benchmark doesnt include the cost of 
charges that might have applied. But the benchmark is also not reflective of an active 
management approach that might have been taken to account for changing markets. 
So, overall, I think its a fair way to compensate Miss E.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation that isnt 
paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance of the decision, 
subject to what I have said above about an independent tax report.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint. Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited must pay Miss E 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman