DRN-4168040
The complaint
Miss A complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) mis-sold her a loan because she wanted 
to pay monthly but was told initially payments would need to be made weekly. She says she 
agreed to pay £120 per month. However, she later discovered that paying monthly could 
lead to payments of up to £150 per month. 
Miss A also said her pay frequency was changed to fortnightly, without her consent. Due to 
this confusion about how much she would need to pay and when, Miss As account is 
currently in arrears. 
What happened
The issues that Miss A has had stems from a loan she was granted for £800 on 
26 August 2022. The credit agreement says Miss A would need to repay a total of £1,560 
which was £30 per week for 52 weeks. I can see from the statement of account that there 
have been times when payments havent been made, for example there were no payments 
made between 24 December 2022 until 28 February 2023. 
Miss A made a complaint to Morses on 24 January 2023 about how often she was due to 
make payment and how much she was due to pay per month. On 15 February 2023, Morses 
sent its final response letter (FRL) on this matter. Morses concluded:
Miss A was told in August 2022 that if she wanted to make monthly payments it had 
to correlate to the number of weeks in that month, so monthly payments could range 
from £120 or £150. 
In January 2023, it was reiterated that monthly payments were an option, but they 
had to have been made in advanced to prevent the account from going further into 
arrears. 
At the time of the FRL Miss A  according to the credit agreement -shouldve paid 
Morses £720 towards the loan. However, by this time Miss A had only repaid £360  
meaning the account was £360 in arrears. 
Unhappy with this response Miss A referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and 
it was then considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold the complaint. She said the loan 
required payments of £30 per week and the call note from Morses at the end of August 2022 
did seem to suggest that Miss A may need to pay £150 some months due to the number of 
weeks that would fall within the payment period.
And while there was now an arrangement to pay £150 per month to help bring the arrears 
down this arrangement was due to start in January 2023 and not February 2023 as 
Miss A suggested. Finally, the adjudicator was satisfied that Miss A had missed payments 
and so the amount of arrears Morses outlined in the FRL was correct. 
Miss A was unhappy with the outcome, and Ive summarised her response below  including 
the documentation received. In summary she explained:
Morses is still reporting missed payment markers on her credit file even though she is 
making overpayments to it. 
Miss A only took the loan out because she was told payments would be £120 per 
month whereas, payments could be as much as £150. Miss A says she shouldnt 
have to pay any interest that is due on the balance. 
Miss A then sent in further information which included screen shots of her on-line 
portal, plus what Morses is recording on her credit file as well as screen shots of text 
messages between herself and Morses agent.  
The adjudicator called and spoke to Miss A to explain why the extra information she had 
provided hadnt changed her mind about the outcome. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a decision. After which I 
asked both parties for further information. Morses provided up to date details of the 
information it is reporting on Miss As credit file about the loan as well as an updated 
statement of account to take account of all payments made up to May 2023. 
Miss A provided evidence including further copies of text messages between herself and the 
Morses agent and a copy of a call recording. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about the all the evidence provided Ive decided Miss As complaint isnt one 
that can be upheld, and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below. To aid the reading of 
the decisions Ive split it up into different sections covering Miss As complaint. 
Repayment amount
Firstly, I have considered what the credit agreement says about the payments. This is 
important because it is the document that outlines the terms on which Morses lent the 
money. The credit agreement is clear in saying that Miss A is due to pay £30 per week for 52 
weeks. 
However, it does seem from the screen shot of the text messages between Miss A and the 
agent that she was told shed only have to pay £120 per month, but that isnt what the credit 
agreement, which she signed said. 
And from the contact notes, I can see that on 31 August 2022 it was explained to Miss A that 
monthly payments can be made, but if there are five weeks in a month she would need to 
pay more. This is correct, and Miss A was informed of this quickly after taking out the loan. 
Indeed, this situation is foreseen in the credit agreement, because as Miss A was due to pay 
£30 per week, if there were five weeks in a month then that month, she would be expected 
to pay £150. 
Even though Miss A said she thought she needed to pay £120 per month towards the loan 
there are times when she didnt pay that, for example she only paid £90 in October 2022 and 
£30 in November 2022. So, even then, Miss A wasnt paying the amount the thought she 
said she needed to pay.  
The adjudicator suggested at this point in time, Miss A couldve withdrawn from the credit 
agreement  as was her right. But she says this wasnt possible as some of the money had already been spent. But Ive thought about what Miss A may have done differently, had the 
agent not mis-informed her about the monthly payment amount. 
In order to do so, Ive gone back to the credit agreement, which does say £30 per week, and 
as such while an error may have been made by the agent, Im still satisfied that Morses has 
explained the terms under which the loan was to be repaid. And it has applied those terms 
and conditions in addition, Morses fairly quickly after the loan was granted, correctly 
explained the position of monthly payments. 
Change of payment term
Miss A says that there was a time when her payments were changed on her online portal to 
fortnightly. And she has provided a screen shot of her online portal which confirms this. It 
isnt clear from either the screen shot, or the system notes provided by Morses when this 
occurred and why it was changed.  But this doesnt appear to have been anything Miss A 
requested. 
But even in this screen shot, it still shows the payment amount is £30 per week  which is 
the amount outlined in the credit agreement. So even though the pay frequency was 
changed, this wouldnt have had an impact on the total amount Miss A was due to Morses. 
So, while, there may have been some confusion as to why the payment frequency had 
changed  which is understandable, the change in payment frequency didnt alter Miss As 
obligation to make payments to Morses. 
There is a dispute about the change in payment date to monthly. Morses has provided a 
copy of its contact notes that say, following a call on 25 January 2023, that the payment 
frequency was changed to monthly  starting from 28 January 2023. Whereas Miss A says 
she agreed to pay monthly from 28 February 2023, and this may explain why no payment 
was made by her in January 2023.  
Its worth saying here that around the time the payment frequency was changed to monthly, 
Miss A has provided a screen shot showing that the agent was sending her messages to 
remind her that a payment needed to have been made on 23 January 2023. And then when 
the payment wasnt made as the agent expected, then the agent sent further messages on 
24 and 31 January 2023. 
And so, even if Morses did agree to change the payment frequency to monthly from 
February 2023, as Miss A has suggested she still needed to make payment(s) in 
January 2023  which she didnt do. 
Morses has provided copies of some calls, but the dates Morses says the calls were made 
on, dont quite match up with the contents of those calls. But, notwithstanding that, from what 
Ive heard its clear from these calls that Miss A is unhappy because she says she agreed to 
make payments of £150 from February 2023. Which she has done. But I dont know exactly 
what was agreed on the call-in terms of when the first monthly payment was agreed to be 
paid  either in January or February 2023.  
But regardless of whether monthly payments were agreed to be paid from January or 
February 2023. By not making any payment in January 2023 (whether Morses agreed to it or 
not) this wouldve pushed the account further in to arrears because Miss As last payment 
was 23 December 2022. 
So, while there clearly is a mismatch between Morses and Miss A as to when the monthly 
payments of £150 would start. The credit the agreement expected payments to be made, and if Miss A didnt make payments, then adverse information could be recorded on her 
credit file, and Ive gone on to think about that below.  
Credit file
Morses has provided, a copy of the information it says it is reporting to the credit reference 
agencies up to May 2023. 
I can see that the account was first reported as being in arrears in November 2022. This is 
likely because, payments were missed in September 2022, October 2022 and Miss A only 
made one payment of £30 in November 2022. This had the impact of increasing the arrears 
on the account because Miss A wasnt making her contractual payment of £30 per week or 
the payment of £120 per month which is what Miss A says she was expecting to make at the 
start. 
The arrears in November 2022 showed as a 1 meaning that Miss A had missed sufficient 
payments to put the account one month in arrears. The arrears remained the same for 
December, before increasing to a 2 in January 2023 and then increasing again in February 
2023 to a 3 where it remained until April 2023 when the arrears dropped to 2.
The arrears increased because Miss A wasnt making her contractual repayments, indeed 
no payments were made at all in January 2023. And, from the end of February 2023 I can 
see that Miss A has been paying £150 per month, which for some months will decrease the 
arrears and this is likely why the arrears being reported by Morses dropped in April 2023. 
I appreciate Miss A may not agree with this, because some months she is making 
overpayments. But the account is still in arrears (even with the overpayments) and Morses is 
entitled to record that until the arrears (or the loan) has been repaid.
This is in line with the Information Commissioners Office guidance for lenders on reporting 
arrears to credit files called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and 
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document is considered good industry practice 
and so its reasonable to consider what it says. 
Principle 2 say Should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this will 
be recorded on your credit file. And part of principle goes on to say:
Arrears should generally only increase by one month at a time e.g. status code 1 to 
2, 2 to 3 etc. There can be exceptions to this such as fraud, bankruptcy, county court 
judgments (CCJs), returned cheques or direct debits. 
In the event that repayments are made and the arrears reduce, the change in arrears 
status should be recorded in the next monthly update.
Taking account of the above guidance, Im satisfied Morses is accurately reporting arrears. 
But also, as those arrears reduce, because Miss A is making overpayments, those arrears 
will also reduce on her credit file. This has already happened from the information Morses 
has provided. Finally, as Morses is reporting information in line with the ICO guidance I cant 
say it has made an error in respect of this. 
Overall, having thought about all the parts of Mis As complaint along with the evidence both 
sides have provided, Im not upholding Miss As complaint. I do appreciate Miss A will be 
disappointed by this outcome.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman