DRN-3721924
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Jarvis Investment Management Limited (JIML) incorrectly 
executed some sell limit orders for bonds she held through it.
What happened
On 11 February 2021 Mrs B instructed JIML to sell a number of her bonds under 
three separate sell limit orders set to expire on 26 February 2021. These were as 
follows:
26,100 units at 85p
26,100 units at 90p
26,100 units at 95p
Despite Mrs B setting the above limit prices, JIML executed the orders at a lower price 
of 83.16p.
Mrs B complained to JIML on 25 February 2021 and asked it to reinstate her bonds so 
she could attempt to sell them again with the limit prices shed originally set.
JIML looked into her concerns and explained that the error had occurred due to a systems 
malfunction. It said Mrs B had contacted it outside of the seven-day period for querying a 
contract listed in its terms and conditions. However, as a gesture of goodwill, JIML offered 
to reverse all three orders. Mrs B requested a current market price to sell the full holding 
from the market but was told that the price she would receive was lower than the original 
dealt price.
Mrs B rejected JIMLs offer and instead requested one of the orders be reversed to see 
what price could be achieved at the current market price before deciding what to do with 
the other two orders. JIML declined to do this. Mrs B requested that JIML break the order 
into three parts to receive a more preferential price from the market, but again JIML 
declined as it said to do so would go against market etiquette as her intention was to sell 
the whole holding.
Despite previously declining to reverse just one order, JIML decided to allow Mrs B to 
reverse one order and sold 26,100 units at the current market price at that time of 84.41p 
per unit. She received £22,397.95 for this on 1 March 2021. JIML says it only allowed this 
on the premise that the original order amount wouldnt be broken up into three separate 
orders and the other two executed orders would be left as they were originally executed.
Mrs B says she only accepted this as it was the least bad option she was given, but still 
didnt understand why JIML couldnt reinstate the bonds and her original three sell limit 
orders. She felt JIML had denied her the opportunity to recover her financial losses as 
the market price had increased yet she couldnt take advantage of it due to JIML not 
allowing her to reinstate the bonds and sell as three separate orders. So Mrs B referred 
her complaint to this Service for an independent review.
An investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary she said:
Whilst she acknowledged that the error was caused by JIMLs system, she 
was satisfied that JIML highlighted from the outset that system failures could 
occur and that it would not be responsible for depreciation of values or 
damage caused as a result of system failings.
JIML had sent Mrs B contract notes immediately after selling her bonds and so 
she ought to have queried the orders within the seven days provided under the 
terms and conditions.
She felt JIMLs offer to reinstate the bonds was fair and agreed that allowing Mrs 
B to break up the orders wouldnt be fair or reasonable.
Mrs B agreed to reverse one trade with the knowledge that she wouldnt be 
able to reverse the other two orders later.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said JIML knew there was a system 
error, yet it failed to disable sell limit orders or to even warn her about the error. She also 
said that had JIML allowed her to manage each of her three orders separately, rather than 
insisting that they were combined into one large single order, then she would have been 
able to sell all three at the higher market rates she had originally set.
As Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022. In this I explained why I thought Mrs 
Bs complaint should be upheld. I include this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JIML accepts that Mrs Bs sell limit orders were executed incorrectly due to a systems 
malfunction and so my provisional decision will focus purely on whether its done enough 
to put things right for Mrs B.
I acknowledge that JIMLs terms and conditions limits its responsibility for any loss caused 
by systems malfunction and sets a seven-day timeframe for querying orders. However, 
JIML has looked beyond its terms and conditions when looking to put things right for Mrs B 
which I feel is fair and appropriate in the circumstances.
I understand JIML gave Mrs B a few different options in order to compensate her for any 
loss suffered as a result of the error. But I dont consider any of these to be fair as they 
dont put her back in the position she would have been but for the error. I think JIMLs offer 
reversing the orders was fair. However, I think it should have retrospectively applied the 
three sell limit orders as Mrs Bs clear intention was to attempt to sell her bonds at the limit 
prices she had set.
Its not clear from the information provided by JIML whether any of the Mrs Bs sell limit 
orders would have been met between placing the orders on 11 February 2021 and when 
the orders would have expired on 26 February 2021. But if any would have, then its clear 
Mrs B has lost out financially because of JIMLs error.
Putting things rightSo in order to put Mrs B back in the position she would have been but for the error, JIML 
should Look at the historic prices for her bonds between the date the sell limit orders 
were placed (11 February 2021) and when the sell limit orders would have expired (26 
February 2021) and consider whether any of her sell limit orders would have been 
executed at the above prices.
If none would have been met, then I dont think JIML needs to do anything more.
But if any would have been met, then JIML should calculate how much she would have 
received and deduct from that the amount she received on 1 March 2021 to give the 
total she has financially been disadvantaged by. JIML should then add 8% simple 
interest per annum to this total amount from the date the sell limit orders ought to have 
been correctly executed to the date of settlement.
Mrs B didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, she said:
JIML should be asked to look at the historical bond prices and consider whether 
any of the three limit orders would have sold had JIML done things correctly.
For the two orders that she said shouldnt have met their limit prices, JIML 
should be asked to consider what would have happened to the value of those 
bonds had they not been sold. She said that she believed their value was 
significantly higher at the end of February than when JIML incorrectly sold them.
She should also be compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused.
JIML also didnt agree with my provisional findings as it said the error was due to a 
third- party error. JIML also provided this Service with a full price history for the bonds.
Following this, I set out further provisional findings to both parties. In this I explained that it 
was clear from the price history for the bonds that only Mrs Bs sell limit order of 26,100 
units at 85p would have been met between when she made the instruction on 11 February 
2021 and when the order expired 26 February 2021. So if JIML hadn't incorrectly sold all of 
her bond units when it did, she would've retained 52,200 units. I said that whilst I couldnt 
be certain what she would have done with her units following the order expiring on 28 
February 2021, I think it's reasonable to assume that she would've remained happy with 
receiving a similar price to her original sell limit orders, i.e. 26,100 units at 90p and 26,100 
units at 95p. Looking at price history for the bonds, she would've been able to achieve 
these prices shortly after her order expired (90p would've been met on 2 March 2021 and 
95p on 29 March 2021).
Considering this, I explained that I was currently minded to change my provisional findings 
to instruct JIML to do the following:
Calculate what Mrs B would've received had JIML sold her 26,100 units at 90p 
and 26,100 units at 95p.
Deduct from this the amount she received on 1 March 2021 for 56,200 
units at 83.16p.
Pay her the total plus 8% simple interest per annum to this total amount from 
the date the sell limit orders ought to have been correctly executed (90p on 2 
March 2021 and 95p on 29 February 2021) to the date of settlement.
Mrs B didnt respond to these follow up findings but JIML did. It said it had done the 
calculations requested and said this amounted to £4,901.19. However, it said that one key 
determinant to the prices in the market is the law of supply and demand. JIML explained 
that had Mrs B retained the units, the buying and selling would have driven different price 
changes and so there is the potential for the price to not have met the 95p price. In summary, JIML said it believed the likelihood of Mrs B catching her ideal prices at a time 
that was convenient to sell was extremely unlikely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate there is an element of uncertainty as to whether Mrs B wouldve been able to 
achieve the prices she originally set after the orders expire. I also appreciate that the market 
is dictated by the law of supply and demand, however, Im not persuaded that had she 
retained her bonds, the prices listed in the price history for the bonds wouldve changed 
dramatically. Im also persuaded from Mrs Bs submissions that she was closely monitoring 
the prices and so Im satisfied she wouldve have capitalised on the price rises.
The only evidence available for me to consider is the unit price history provided and so 
taking everything into account, I think its fair and reasonable to suggest Mrs B would've 
remained happy with receiving a similar price to her original sell limit orders, i.e. 26,100 
units at 90p and 26,100 units at 95p. And looking at price history, these orders would've 
been met shortly after her order expired.
Ive also considered Mrs B comments around distress and inconvenience but I dont think 
any is warranted in the circumstances. I say this as this was a one-off incident and JIML 
did attempt to put things right with Mrs B, albeit not in line with my findings.
Putting things right
I instruct JIML to do the following:
Calculate what Mrs B would've received had JIML sold her 26,100 units at 90p 
and 26,100 units at 95p.
Deduct from this the amount she received on 15 February 2021 for 52,200 
units at 83.16p.
Pay her the total plus 8% simple interest per annum to this total amount from 
the date the sell limit orders ought to have been correctly executed (90p on 2 
March 2021 and 95p on 29 March 2021) to the date of settlement.
I understand JIML has already carried out these calculations, however, it will need 
to recalculate the interest in line with the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Jarvis Investment Management 
Limited to compensate Mrs B in line with the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman