DRN-3801168
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a claim 
under his home insurance policy for damage to his property from an escape of water.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy.
In making his complaint, Mr S was supported by a representative. References to Mr S 
include his representative.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr S contacted RSA to tell them about an escape of water in the 
bathroom of his property. RSA appointed a surveyor (B) to assess the damage initially, 
visiting the property in November. Bs report noted a plumber had previously attended and 
identified the cause of the leak as a failed waste pipe to the shower. RSA also appointed a 
loss adjuster (S) who visited later in November. Ss report noted the extent of the damage 
indicated the pipe had been leaking for some time. As well as damage to the bathroom, 
there was damage to a bedroom and hall. Ss report also noted Mr S had ordered a 
replacement bathroom suite.
RSA also appointed a contractor (C) to arrange stripping out the bathroom and drying. Given 
the extent of the damage (and not having bathing facilities) RSA arranged for Mr S to move 
into alternative accommodation while the work to reinstate the bathroom was carried out. 
While carrying out the strip out work, Mr S asked them to remove the sanitary ware (shower 
tray and cubicle, vanity unit and wash basin and the toilet) given hed ordered a replacement 
suite. RSA had previously asked C to remove the existing suite and retain it for refitting once 
the strip out, drying and other reinstatement work was complete). Given Mr Ss request, C 
asked him to sign a document confirming he wanted the existing suite disposed of.
RSA made Mr S a settlement offer for the claim in April 2022, including the cost of repair 
work to the hall and bedroom (£6,027) as well reinstating the bathroom (£4,324). They 
subsequently increased the offer to £5,896. Mr S was content with the settlement offered for 
the hall and bedroom, but not the offer for the bathroom as the settlement didnt include the 
cost of the replacement suite. RSA said they would only have covered the cost of removing 
and refitting the original suite (but replacing the shower tray and vanity unit) as part of the 
scope of work on which the settlement offer was based. This was what theyd have done had 
Mr S not ordered a replacement suite (and asked C to dispose of the original suite). 
Unhappy at their declining to pay for replacement suite, Mr S complained to RSA. But they 
didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they restated their position that they 
wouldnt include the cost of a replacement suite, as they would only have covered the cost of 
removing and refitting the original suite. 
Mr S then complained to this service. He didnt think RSA acted fairly in declining to pay for 
the replacement suite. As the damage from the leak was extensive, everything in the 
bathroom had to be removed and replaced, which was RSAs decision. Mr S took the 
opportunity to make some changes to the bathroom to make it more suitable for his needs 
(as he had a mobility-related disability). He accepted the cost of the changes would be his 
responsibility, but the replacement suite should be covered by RSA. The shower tray had 
two cracks and the pipework underneath had been incorrectly fitted, leading to the leak. The 
leak had damaged the vanity unit cabinet, and the wash basin was specific to the unit. And 
the toilet had to be removed because of the need to replace the flooring. RSAs decision 
meant he was faced with meeting the cost of a replacement suite (estimated at £5,800).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
She thought it fair RSA had included the cost of items that couldnt be refitted (the shower 
tray and vanity unit) but not the other items that could. She also thought RSA shouldnt have 
to pay for a replacement suite that had been ordered prior to the claim (or before it had been 
assessed).
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said hed acted honestly and had been treated unfairly by RSA, by not 
approaching them before theyd ordered a replacement suite. He also thought RSA had 
benefitted from not having to include VAT in their settlement (as Mr Ss disability meant their 
replacement suite was exempt from VAT). He also said hed not told RSA (C) to dispose of 
the original suite and that it was their decision to take everything out of the bathroom 
(including the suite).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say to Mr S that Ive considered carefully what hes told us about his mobility-
related disability and the impact it has on him. I understand why, when considering the work 
needed to reinstate the bathroom, Mr S would want to include some work to change some 
aspects of the bathroom to better meet his needs. I can also appreciate his saying he 
accepts the cost of those changes would be his responsibility (not RSAs as part of their 
settlement offer for the claim). 
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr S. Given what Mr S has 
said about his disability, I have considered whether RSAs actions reflect his disability and 
RSA have considered Mr Ss vulnerability.
The key issue concerns RSA declining to cover the full replacement of the bathroom suite. 
Nr S says RSA should cover the cost of replacing the full suite, as its removal was RSAs 
decision (and he has Matching Items Cover under his policy). RSA say theyve acted fairly in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions by basing their cash settlement offer on 
removal and refitting items of the suite (but replacing the shower tray and vanity unit) as this 
would have been their normal procedure (as those items werent damaged by the leak). 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the points made by Mr S and RSA as well as 
the information and evidence available. Having done so, Ive concluded RSA have acted 
fairly. I know this will disappoint Mr S, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Looking at what happened, RSAs case notes confirm the original suite was disposed of by 
C at Mr Ss request, as hed ordered a new replacement suite. That being the case, the 
issue comes down to whether RSA should have included the cost of replacing the full suite 
as part of their settlement offer. Ive first considered what the policy provides for, in the context of the circumstances of the 
case. Looking at the policy document it includes the following summary statement:
Matching Items Cover
You can add this optional extra to your Buildings Cover and Contents Cover. If part of 
a matching set, pair or suite is lost or damaged and we cant repair or replace it with 
an identical item, well pay for the replacement cost of the whole set, pair or suite. So, 
if a kitchen cupboard is damaged and we cant find an exact replacement, well pay 
to replace all the kitchen units.
Theres similar wording in the What we cover buildings and contents sections of the policy.
Ive seen an exchange between Mr S and RSA where the issue of whether matching cover 
applies to replacement of the suite. In it, Mr S says all the work in the bathroom (including 
the replacement suite) should be covered by RSA (other than some items he accepts he 
should cover). RSA say the scope of work (and therefore the settlement which is based on 
the scope) includes taking out and refitting the toilet, basin, shower cubicle and shower. The 
scope also includes replacing the shower tray and the vanity unit). In response, RSA say 
that while Mr S had Matching Items Cover, this would only cover items damaged by the 
insured peril (the leak). In this case, the shower tray and the vanity unit. But the other items 
werent damaged by the leak, so could be removed and refitted. 
Ive thought about this carefully, but on balance Im persuaded by RSAs view. From what 
Ive seen, the vanity unit (but not the basin sitting on it) was damaged by the leak. And given 
the leak arose from the waste pipe beneath the shower tray (which contained a crack that 
would seem to have either been present before the leak, or not caused by the leak) then its 
reasonable for it to also be replaced. Particularly as its generally accepted (including by Mr 
S) that removing and refitting a shower tray can be problematic. Its implicit in what RSA say 
that they could replace it to match the other items of the suite they would have planned to 
refit. And its reasonable to think the vanity unit could have been replaced in the form it was 
before the leak (and from the photographs Ive seen of the bathroom, its not specifically 
matched to the other items of the suite). 
So, Ive concluded RSA have acted fairly in declining to replace the other items of the suite 
(apart from the shower tray and vanity unit). And theyve complied with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive considered the additional points made by Mr S when 
disagreeing with our investigators view. 
On the point about RSA benefiting from not having to include VAT in their settlement, as Mr 
Ss disability meant he qualified for a VAT exemption, I dont agree with Mr S. The issue of 
whether there is a VAT exemption is one of the relevant legislation and whether it provides 
for an exemption due to Mr Ss circumstances. On the basis that it does, then Mr S benefits 
in the first instance from the exemption. It wouldnt be fair to expect RSA to include an 
element for VAT in their settlement if that VAT hadnt actually been incurred, as this would 
mean paying for a cost that hadnt been incurred. Had the exemption not applied, then Id 
have expected RSA to reimburse any applicable VAT (its normal practice for insurers to 
reimburse VAT on production of a VAT invoice, where they agree to pay for work carried out 
by contractors).
On Mr Ss point that he didnt tell RSA (C) to dispose of the original suite, as well as the 
reference in RSAs case notes (and their final response) theyve provided a copy of the document signed by Mr S. Ive no reason to doubt its authenticity, so Ive concluded Mr S did 
agree to (ask for) the disposal of the original suite.
On the point about whether RSAs actions reflect Mr Ss disability and his vulnerability, from 
what Ive seen I think RSA acted fairly. RSAs case notes record them being made aware of 
Mr Ss vulnerability when first notified of the leak. And RSA took account of Mr Ss disability 
in their decision to provide alternative accommodation, rather than provide a bathroom pod 
at Mr Ss property, which RSA decided wouldnt be fair as access to a pod would be difficult 
for Mr S. And my conclusion RSA have acted fairly in not covering the replacement suite 
isnt affected by Mr Ss vulnerability.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman