DRN-3173320
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society gave her insufficient warning that arrears 
would be reported on her credit file following a request to make reduced payments.
What happened
Miss C told Nationwide that her circumstances had been impacted a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. In response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released 
specific guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a 
maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments. Where a payment deferral is offered, the 
lender needs to ensure that a consumer is given adequate information to understand any 
implications this may have. 
In response to Miss Cs circumstances and a request for a payment deferral, Nationwide 
agreed a six-month payment deferral for her. Miss Cs account would not be reported as in 
arrears. 
When Miss Cs deferral period was coming to an end, she called Nationwide to discuss her 
options as she still wasnt able to resume full payments. The FCAs guidance said that after 
the six-month deferral period had ended, it expected lenders to resume normal reporting.
Nationwide carried out an income an expenditure assessment with Miss C to help decide the 
most appropriate concession. Miss C had an income deficit in excess of £400 compared to 
her outgoings. A nil payment arrangement was agreed for a further three months. This was 
recorded on her credit file, in line with the FCAs guidance. 
Miss C complains that the implications of this arrangement werent fully explained to her. 
She said, had she been aware that arrears would be reported on her credit file, she wouldnt 
have agreed to this arrangement and instead found the money from somewhere to make her 
payments and maintain her clear credit history.
Nationwide addressed the complaint and agreed that it didnt explicitly make it clear to Miss 
C that arrears would accrue on her account and be reported as that on her credit file, albeit 
she was aware her credit file would be impacted and additional interest charged. 
In its final response letter, Nationwide apologised for its error and to acknowledge the trouble 
and upset caused, it credited Miss Cs account by £75. In response to Miss C saying she 
would have acted differently in the circumstances, Nationwide also agreed to reverse the 
arrears and amend Miss Cs credit file if she paid £1,136.82 to clear the arrears. 
Miss C didnt accept the proposed resolution and brought her complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator looked into things and thought Nationwides resolution was fair and reasonable. 
He didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything else in the circumstances.
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view. The complaint has now been passed to me for a 
final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. Nationwide has admitted it got things
wrong. So, the key issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things
right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
Nationwide has offered to compensate Miss C for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
discovering the reported arrears. I think its important to explain that, as a service, our 
awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
I appreciate it must have been worrying and upsetting for Miss C to learn arrears had been 
reported on her account and subsequently her credit file. But Miss C accepts that she knew 
her credit file would be impacted in at least some way. This was not the case during the 
initial six-month payment deferral agreed in response to the FCAs guidance. So, I think Miss 
C was given enough information to at least know the follow-on arrangement would impact 
her credit file differently, albeit the word arrears wasnt specifically used. Which Nationwide 
accepts it could have better explained. 
Ive also given regard to the fact that Nationwide answered the complaint within a matter of 
days of it being raised, admitting its error. Nationwide also offered to put Miss C back in the 
position she would have been in had she received the right information. 
Miss C had a deficit income at the time the payment arrangement was agreed, and she 
didnt mention at the time that she had access to other funds. As such, other concessions 
like switching to interest only and/or a term extension werent suitable for her in the 
circumstances. And, Miss C had exhausted the maximum six-month payment deferral 
allowance. So, I cant say that Nationwide did anything wrong by agreeing to a nil payment 
arrangement to assist Miss C in the short term, until her income returned to normal as 
requested  as thats all she said she could afford. 
It was only after finding out about the full impact of this arrangement that Miss C told 
Nationwide she could have sourced the funds from elsewhere to make her payments to 
avoid accruing arrears. Nationwide took that into account in its resolution of the complaint 
and said it would reverse the arrears if Miss C cleared them. It also paid £75 compensation 
for the distress caused up until this point.
After considering all of the above, Im satisfied this is a fair resolution of the complaint. The 
level of compensation paid was reasonable when taking into account how promptly the 
matter was resolved, and the other steps Nationwide was willing to take to put things right. 
Miss C didnt accept the resolution, but I see no alternative. Miss Cs monthly payments are 
due under her mortgage contract. She has not made her contractual payments for three 
months. That amount (including additional interest) is currently due. If Miss C clears the 
arrears, Nationwide agrees to back date the payments, meaning interest on the arrears 
wont be charged and it will remove any adverse information from Miss Cs credit file.Lenders have a duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. If Miss C is 
unable to clear the arrears, then her credit file should reflect the true position of her 
mortgage account and I would not expect Nationwide to report anything different.
Miss C says she has received numerous calls about the arrears adding to the trouble and 
upset caused. But she had the opportunity to repay those arrears in February 2021 and 
prevent contact from the collections department. Thus, mitigating the impact suffered.
I appreciate it might have been easier for Miss C to find the money to make her payments 
monthly instead of finding a lump sum in excess of £1,000 in one go. Nationwide has agreed 
that it will still honour its offer and allow a further three months from now to clear the arrears. 
If the arrears are cleared in full by the end of February 2022, Miss Cs account will be 
backdated and any adverse information relating to the arrears removed. This puts her in the 
position she wouldve been had Nationwide given her clearer information at the time. That is 
having to find the additional funds required for a three-month period to avoid her account 
going into arrears.    
If Miss C accepts this resolution, she should contact Nationwide directly to agree how much 
extra she will pay each month, between now and the end of February 2022 to clear the 
arrears. 
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to 
allow Miss C a further three months (until the end of February 2022) to clear her arrears. 
Provided this agreement is met, Nationwide Building Society should backdate Miss Cs 
account and remove any adverse information relating to the arrears from her credit file. For 
reasons already explained I dont find that any further compensation is due in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman