DRN-2507392
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which was taken out to protect Mr Cs credit card 
repayments. It covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr Cs 
representative disagreed saying, in summary, that Mr C was self-employed. The exclusions 
of the policy, and how his self-employment could have affected his ability to claim, were not 
discussed. He would have needed to have permanently ceased trading to make a successful 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Lloyds doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint because:
Lloyds cant provide a copy of Mr Cs application form and it cant say for sure when and how 
the sale was made. Mr C applied for the credit card in July 1998 and I think its reasonable to 
assume that this was when the PPI was sold. Taking into consideration what the bank has 
told us, what Mr C recalls and what we know about PPI policies sold by Lloyds around this 
time, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it. I say this because the credit card application form that Mr C 
would have most likely completed included a separate section about PPI and I think it was 
made reasonably clear  from the need to tick a box  that the PPI was optional. Its not 
surprising Mr C cant remember this, given the sale took place so long ago.
Its not clear whether advice was given so, to be fair to Mr C, Ive considered the case to the 
higher standard of an advised sale. Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for 
Mr C based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C wouldnt have received 
any sick pay and didnt have any other form of insurance to cover him if he couldnt work due 
to sickness or an accident. The PPI would have met his monthly repayments for up to 
12 months if he couldnt work and covered him if hed become unemployed. So I think the 
PPI couldve been a useful benefit.
Mr C was self-employed. But, having considered the terms of the policy, I dont find they 
made it any more difficult for him to make a claim, than if hed been employed. So I dont 
think he would have made a different decision if these terms had been brought to his 
attention.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was
competitively priced. So I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman