DRN-3215206
The complaint
Ms F complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a 
running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2018, Ms F applied for a catalogue shopping accounts through Studio Retail. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £200. The credit limit was never increased. Ms F 
appears to have spent up close to the credit limit in her first month and then no 
payments were made to the account by Ms F. The account fell into arrears in December 
2018 and as Studio Retail received no contact from Ms F, they sold the debt in July 
2019.
In 2020, Ms F complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms F didnt agree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Fs complaint is that Studio Retail shouldnt have given her credit and so it must 
have failed to make adequate checks before providing her with that credit.
Prior to providing credit to Ms F, Studio Retail says it carried out a credit check. It said the 
results of this satisfied it that Ms F could afford a limit of £200. Studio Retail havent been 
able to provide more than a high level summary of the results of that check to us, so I 
cant know exactly what it saw. I note it did estimate Ms Fs annual income using 
information provided by a credit reference agency. The credit checks did appear to 
indicate Ms F had a high amount of debt compared to her income so I think it would have 
been proportionate for Studio Retail to have sought to carry out more thorough checks on 
her financial circumstances before lending. Without this, in the specific circumstances of 
this case, I dont think Studio Retail could adequately assess whether the lending was 
affordable  or not. I therefore dont think the affordability checks they completed were 
reasonable or proportionate in this case.
Ms F says that she had other borrowing and a poor credit history. But that may explain why 
Studio Retail chose to offer an initial credit limit that was small. Weve asked Ms F to 
provide us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time so that we could see 
what more thorough checks would likely have revealed to Studio Retail, but she hasnt 
provided the information thats been requested. I therefore havent seen anything that 
persuades me that Studio Retail would or should have seen that Ms Fs financial 
circumstances were in such a state as to make lending her a revolving credit facility of £200 
unreasonable. And in the absence of extra information from Ms F, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led Studio Retail to 
think that it should not have issued credit to Ms F at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman