DRN-2553826
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy because he says Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
knew of his employment situation when he took out the motor insurance policy but waited 
until after the cancellation period to query it. This meant he would be charged if he chose to 
cancel. He is also unhappy about the price of the additional premium and that the charges 
werent made clear. 
 
What happened
Mr K took out the policy online on 1 July 2019. It was annual cover which commenced on 19 
July. Advantage queried Mr Ks employment status on 18 July. Mr K told Advantage he was 
in a dispute with his employer but believed his job would be reinstated. The business 
amended the policy and charged an additional premium and admin fee. 
Mr K complained because he felt the charges werent explained. He also said Advantage 
delayed raising the query so that he couldnt cancel without being charged. Advantage 
responded and said the amendment had incurred additional cost. 
Mr K also contacted Advantage about his concerns in December 2019. Advantage didnt 
uphold the complaint and felt the additional cost was fair because Mr K had provided 
incorrect information. Mr K didnt accept this and asked us to investigate. 
In the investigators view there had been a qualifying misrepresentation which had been 
careless. But he felt Advantage hadnt fairly provided Mr K with the option of cancelling the 
policy. He recommended £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset. Both parties 
disagreed, so the case has passed to me. 
When I reviewed the case I decided to issue a provisional decision. I said: 
The cancellation period
Advantage say a validation check is triggered when a consumer changes their details 
whilst running quotes. Mr K thinks the checks should have been carried out sooner 
and has referred to distance trading rules which have now been replaced by 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 
2013. This act does not apply to insurance services. But Ive considered the relevant 
rules and regulations in reaching my provisional decision. 
Mr K had a responsibility to ensure the information he provided when he entered into 
the contract was correct. This was outlined by Advantage in the welcome pack sent 
to Mr K in July 2019 and they could therefore assume the information provided for 
the accepted quote was correct. They dont have to check if other quotes were run or 
for discrepancies. 
In this case, Advantage identified that two quotes had been run and raised a query 
with Mr K on 18 July 2019. Mr K is also concerned Advantage did not raise the query 
when they contacted him on 16 July 2019. But it isnt unusual for an insurer to check 
information at a later point or even after the policy starts. 
Mr Ks policy had a cancellation period but Advantage wouldnt have been obligated 
to ensure their own checks were completed by the end of the period. This is because 
they were entitled to assume the information was correct. Therefore, it wasnt unfair 
for Advantage to raise the query on 18 July 2019. 
The additional premium
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.  
 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
Mr K says he was only given two options when asked if he was employed  yes or 
no. He says he selected yes because he expected to be reinstated after resolving his 
employment dispute. But he wasnt employed when he answered this question. 
Although Mr K has said he was unable to provide more detail on the form, Im not 
persuaded this meant the question was unclear. Therefore, Mr K answered the 
question incorrectly and in doing so Im satisfied that he failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation about his employment status.
 
Advantage have provided their underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr K had 
answered the question correctly, they would have charged him a higher premium. 
From this, Im persuaded Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
 
Under CIDRA, Advantage could cancel the policy or keep the policy in place and 
settle claims proportionately. CIDRA doesnt give insurers the right to impose an 
additional premium on the consumer. However, it might be fair to do so where a 
consumer agrees to pay an additional premium after theyve been informed of their 
alternative options.
  
When it discovered the incorrect answer that Mr K had given, Advantage should have 
offered Mr K the option of cancelling the policy. In July 2019, Mr K said he felt unable 
to cancel because of the cancellation fee. Im persuaded by the correspondence from 
July 2019 that had Advantage given Mr K the option he would have opted to cancel 
the policy and not pay the additional premium. 
Advantage provided evidence that Mr K agreed to continuous payment authority. But 
this doesnt mean it was reasonable to take the payment without offering cancellation 
of the policy and without Mr Ks agreement. Advantage also say Mr K was offered the 
opportunity to cancel the policy without a cancellation fee during our investigation. 
They say as he didnt accept this it means he was unlikely to cancel the policy in July 
2019. But I dont agree this is the case because time had moved on and what he 
would have done in July 2019 isnt necessarily the same as what he would have 
done months later. 
The price and cost information 
Mr K is unhappy with the price of the additional premium as there was only a small 
difference between the two quotes he obtained. Insurers frequently update how they 
rate the risk of consumers. Therefore, it is not unusual for their rates to also change. 
So, I cant say Advantage has done anything wrong because the additional premium 
was higher. 
Advantage have provided me with information to explain how the additional premium 
was calculated. Mr K is concerned he hasnt seen this. Im unable to share it because 
its confidential and commercially sensitive. But Ive checked the information and Im 
satisfied the additional premium was calculated correctly and all of Advantages 
consumers in Mr Ks position wouldve been charged a similar premium. 
Mr K says he was confused by the charge because he was initially told it would be 
£150. I understand Mr K raised this with Advantage. I have seen a cost breakdown 
was provided in their email to Mr K on 25 July 2019. They also stated the amount in 
their email of 31 July 2019. There was a second email on this day which referred to 
the admin fee and I can see why this mightve caused some confusion for Mr K. But 
overall Advantage did give him information about the cost. He was also charged less 
then he initially expected. 
Mr K also says Advantage did not properly explain the price of the additional 
premium. I can see in July 2019, Advantage said it had been charged because of the 
amendment to the policy. Advantage also said this in correspondence in August 
2019. I think that was clear.
But although insurers are entitled to make a charge for administration fees if they 
clearly set this out, Advantage has confirmed they wouldnt have charged one if Mr K 
cancelled.  So, in the circumstances I find that this should be refunded to him. 
In December 2019, Advantage also explained there were several factors which could 
affect the price of the premium. Mr K is unhappy because they referred to a change 
of underwriters which was not applicable here. However, they were speaking 
generally about the factors and I wouldnt expect them to provide detailed pricing 
information. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong here.
  
Putting things right
Advantage didnt provide Mr K with the option of cancelling the policy without a 
charge. Mr K was unhappy with the additional premium and Im persuaded, on 
balance, he wouldve cancelled the policy rather than paying it. For these reasons, 
Advantage should refund the cost of the additional premium and the administration 
fee which totals £120.71.
The policy has now ended so its too late for it to be cancelled and Mr K had the 
benefit of the correct cover. I also note if Advantage hadnt raised the query about the 
information they had been provided, Mr K may have found he was not fully covered if 
he needed to make a claim. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. 
Neither Mr K nor Advantage accepted my provisional decision. I have thought carefully about 
everything theyve said and summarised their responses below. 
Mr Ks responseMr K was concerned that I didnt mention the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) and the requirements therein. He feels Advantage are in breach of their 
obligations because they waited to query the information he provided, didnt offer free 
cancellation and charged too much. He says this wasnt in his best interests. 
Also, Mr K responded to say that after 14 days both parties could be said to have accepted 
the terms and information provided. In respect of cancellation, Mr K says the policy 
document he downloaded under Advantages instructions didnt contain this information. He 
also says that Acts of Parliament can overrule terms written into contracts and that I havent 
dealt with his concerns about the distance trading rules. 
Additionally, Mr K feels I focussed too much on misrepresentation and didnt consider that 
Advantages form failed to provide an option for his uncertain situation. He feels this is the 
most important point as he was unable to provide the correct answer because of the limited 
options. 
Further, Mr K says that by filling in two quotes he knowingly informed Advantage of his 
uncertain employment situation. Mr K says it was impossible for him to correctly represent 
his situation because of the limited options on the form. He says he tried his best and that 
the difference between the quotes was only very small, so he didnt misrepresent for 
financial gain. He has said that the price difference needs to be significant for it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
Mr K also says that in a period of three weeks the price suddenly increased. He doesnt think 
this increase can be explained and that it is unfair he hasnt been shown the evidence. Also, 
he says that Advantage justified the increase to the additional premium by stating that it was 
due to a change in underwriters. He didnt agree that this was a general statement. Hes 
concerned about the information he hasnt been able to see. 
Advantages response
Advantage didnt accept my provisional decision because they offered the option to cancel 
the policy in March 2020 when it was still live. They arent clear that this option was offered 
to Mr K at the time. They say that whilst they appreciate Mr K wasnt presented with this 
option at the point of the validation checks or original complaint, Mr Ks terms and conditions 
confirm he is able to cancel at any time. Given the time which has passed, they dont feel 
that a full refund for the additional premium is reasonable. Theyve offered £50 to resolve the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted by Mr K, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out an insurers obligations 
in their Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). It states that insurers must 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. 
Its not my role to make a ruling stating whether the requirements have been breached, but I 
want to assure the parties that I took the obligations into consideration when making my 
provisional decision about whether Advantage have acted fairly and reasonably. However, I should note that given the circumstances of this complaint, its also necessary for me to 
consider the actions Advantage can reasonably take under CIDRA which is why I discussed 
this in my provisional decision. 
Cancellation
ICOBS 3 sets out Advantages obligations in respect of Distance Marketing, but in respect of 
cancellation it refers to ICOBS 7. This section sets out that an insurer is required to provide 
its consumer with the right to cancel. It states that this should be 14 days, which commences 
from the day of the conclusion of the contract or from the day which the consumer receives 
the terms and conditions. Having reviewed the policy documents, I can see Advantage set 
out their cancellation policy in line with this.
Nevertheless, Ive noted Mr Ks comments that the documentation he received didnt outline 
Advantages own cancellation policy. Having reviewed the documents, I can see the cooling 
off period was referred to more than once and Im satisfied this information would have been 
available to Mr K. But Im of the view that the option should have been made clear when he 
explained that he didnt want to pay the additional premium. I think that Advantage should 
put this right.
I also understand Mr K feels strongly that Advantage didnt act in his best interests when 
they questioned the information after 14 days had passed. But I dont agree that they acted 
unfairly as they were entitled to rely on the information on the accepted quote as being 
correct. The obligation here is on the consumer to ensure they provide accurate information. 
Therefore, I wouldnt necessarily expect Advantage to compare information on quotes that 
werent accepted. And I dont agree that filling in information on a quote which is not 
accepted is equal to notifying them. 
 
Additionally, Ive considered Advantages comments about offering to cancel the policy for 
Mr K in March 2020. The investigator also felt Advantage should offer Mr K the option to 
cancel. But at this time Mr K felt strongly that the policy should stay in place because of the 
limited time left before the end and that the additional premium should be refunded. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded this means Mr K wouldnt have cancelled his policy when he 
complained about the price of the additional premium had he been given this option. 
 
Misrepresentation
I appreciate Mr K has concerns about the form and the lack of options. However, there was 
an option which represented Mr Ks situation because, although he expected to be 
reinstated, he was unemployed. I understand that Mr K feels that because he filled out two 
quotes, he did in fact inform Advantage of his employment situation. However, I dont agree. 
As above, I find that this was a misrepresentation.
Moreover, I would like to explain that according to CIDRA a misrepresentation is qualifying if 
the consumer failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer 
and the insurer can show it wouldnt have entered into the contract or would have done so 
on different terms. This is also set out in ICOBS 8. 
In this case, Advantage said that they would have charged a higher premium, although given 
the passage of time they arent now able to say what it would have been. Mr K says there 
was a £2 difference in the quotes. Whatever the exact amount, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Advantage would have charged a higher premium. Therefore, Mr Ks 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.  
Price Increase
I understand Mr Ks concerns about the additional premium. The information provided by 
Advantage shows that they consider a higher risk rating for unemployment. As previously 
mentioned, its not unusual to see changes in the risk or for prices to increase or decrease 
even over a short period of time. As I explained in my provisional decision, I cant share this 
information because its commercially sensitive. 
Having considered the comments made and the evidence I have, Im satisfied Advantage 
would have charged more for Mr K being unemployed. However, Im not convinced from the 
evidence that Ive seen exactly how much more they would have charged. I understand Mr K 
feels strongly about this and it doesnt change my finding that Advantage should refund the 
additional premium. I appreciate this wasnt outlined in my provisional decision, but as Ive 
concluded that Advantage should issue a refund, Im satisfied it doesnt make a difference to 
my overall decision.  
Putting things right
Having considered all of the comments and evidence, I can see no reason to change how I 
concluded Advantage should put things right. I remain of the view that, on balance, Mr K 
would have cancelled the policy rather than pay the additional premium. Therefore, 
Advantage should refund the additional premium and administration fee. I do note he has 
had the benefit of the policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) should 
refund Mr K the additional premium and administration fee of £120.71. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman