DRN-3694711
The complaint
Ms S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), activated her finance agreement before the work the agreement funded 
was completed. Shes also unhappy that they have reported adverse information to her 
credit file. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. If there was an agreement to delay 
the activation of the finance agreement or if there was agreement the goods were not 
supplied there may have been a breach of contract.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The finance agreement explained that BPF would pay the amount of the loan to the retailer:
when the retailer has supplied or shipped the goods or provided the services to you
Ms S signed a document provided by the fitters to say she agreed the work had been 
completed. That document provided the evidence BPF needed to pay the retailer and 
activate the finance agreement. It confirmed the goods had been supplied.
Ms S should therefore have paid her first instalment in January 2021 but didnt. BPF sent 
arrears letters and eventually defaulted the agreement in April 2021, reporting the missed 
payments and the default to the credit reference agencies.
Ms S says that there was an agreement in place to put the finance on hold until faults were 
rectified. I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient evidence of that. 
The text messages in which Ms S responds to a survey were completed after the 
finance was activated. They demonstrate that Ms S was now unhappy with the 
installation but theres no request to hold the finance. 
Ive not seen copies of the emails Ms S suggests she exchanged with BPF before the 
finance was activated and in which it is claimed there was an agreement to hold off 
on the activation date. BPFs contact notes dont list any emails for that period either. 
Whilst Ms S has explained she had conversations with the retailer about holding off 
on the activation of the finance agreement until problems were resolved, I dont have 
any records of those conversations and the retailer havent confirmed they took 
place. I dont think it would therefore be reasonable for me to suggest a verbal 
agreement was likely to have been reached to delay the start of the finance 
agreement. 
The email from the retailer to Ms S in December 2021 was to confirm the start of the 
warranty and not to confirm the start of the finance agreement. 
Having listened to the call Ms S had with BPF in February 2022 I dont think there 
was an agreement to suspend finance payments. The agent explained that he would 
make a request to see if a hold could be applied but there was no promise that would 
be the case and BPFs subsequent communications demonstrate they hadnt done 
so.
BPF have an obligation to report accurate information on Ms Ss account to the credit 
reference agencies, as payments were missed, and the account was defaulted I dont think 
they were wrong to report that.
I understand Ms S is unhappy that BPF didnt provide a final response on this issue within 
eight weeks but in those circumstances this service can then consider the complaint as we 
have done. Im not persuaded Ms S has been disadvantaged by that delay as her complaint 
hasnt been upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman