DRN-4148776
The complaint
Mr W complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who sent him multiple invites for a 
boiler service, which he found harassing, under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr W held a home emergency policy with BG. He said that BG continually sent him invites 
for a boiler service. He said he repeatedly told BG to stop, and this was ignored. Mr W made 
a complaint to BG about this. BG considered the complaint and apologised for the 
unwarranted contact. It said that the contact would stop and amended its systems, as well as 
offered Mr W £30 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W initially accepted the resolution and thought that would be an end to it. But the next 
day after BG said the contact would stop, Mr W received a further call inviting him to book a 
boiler service. Because of this, Mr W withdrew his support for the outcome offered by BG 
and ultimately brought his complaint to our service. 
BG reiterated its apology and its offer of compensation for the trouble and upset caused, in 
its final response to Mr W. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think 
it should be upheld. He said that BG had amended its systems to stop further calls to Mr W. 
Although further contact occurred, he considered this unavoidable, given that it would have 
taken around 24 hours for BGs systems to update to show the actions BG took (that is the 
amending of the system). Finally, he agreed that the compensation of £30 that BG offered, 
and paid Mr W was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And he 
wouldnt be asking BG to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
BG accepted the view, Mr W did not. He said that BG were wrong to be contacting him to 
invite him to book a service when the service plainly wasnt due. He wanted a higher amount 
of compensation for the distress caused. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr W, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision and why I think it is fair. 
Mr W complained that he continually received several calls and messages from BG inviting 
him to book an annual service of his boiler, that was not yet due. Having considered both 
parties comments, I think the main issue here is whether BG couldve avoided or stopped 
the contact made to Mr W, following his original complaint. 
Based on the evidence, BG indicated that an agreement had been reached between itself 
and Mr W. With BG agreeing to pay compensation of £30 for the trouble and upset caused, 
which Mr W found to be acceptable. But Mr W further explained that he received an 
additional call (following the resolution) and it was this that triggered him to reject the 
resolution and make a formal complaint. 
Mr W also said that a few days after the resolution, he was still receiving contact from BG for 
the exact same reasons.
I asked BG why, when it had amended its systems, did Mr W receive further contact. It 
explained that although it had amended its systems not to contact Mr W, the system took 24 
hours to update, and this call was a crossover. As a result, Mr M received another call. So, 
Im persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for BG to say that the call was unavoidable, in 
the circumstances. 
Turning to the further contact that Mr W received, again after the rejected resolution, I asked 
BG about this. It explained that it was again unavoidable to cancel the letter going out. And it 
was likely that the letter had been pre-prepared, just waiting for it to be sent to Mr W.  In the 
absence of any evidence from Mr W to the contrary, I think that it is likely that this happened 
here. Thankfully, since this period, the reminders have now stopped. So, I think BG did what 
it said it would. 
BG offered and paid Mr W £30 for the trouble and upset caused. I understand that Mr W 
would like a far greater amount of compensation. When we assess compensation, we look at 
the impact of a business error on the consumer. Here, I think the impact on Mr W was 
minimal. I say this as apart from the frustration of receiving the communication and BG not 
seemingly complying with Mr Ws instructions, I cant see that Mr W has provided any other 
evidence that shows the impact on his day-to-day life as a result of the error. So, having 
reviewed our guidelines, Im satisfied that the £30 compensation paid to Mr W, falls within 
our recommendations. 
Overall, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr W will be, I think that BG were fair and 
reasonable in its offer of compensation. And I think that it amended its systems and the 
additional contact to Mr W wasnt avoidable. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask BG to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman