DRN-4315396
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the service received from British Gas Insurance Limited
(British Gas) and damage caused under her home care policy. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the term British Gas includes its agents, representatives and
contractors in this decision letter.
What happened
In September 2022, British Gas attended Ms Ss property to carry out descaling of the
waste pipe in Miss Ss property. The next day after use of the bath, water cascaded into the
hallway below. British Gas engineers returned to discover that the waste pipe to the sink and
bath had been dislodged. Miss S then had to empty the bath with a bucket to prevent any
further damage. She has two young children, and the affected bathroom is the only
bathroom in the property.
Miss S complained that the British Gas had caused damage to her property and was left
without washing facilities and lived in damp conditions from September 2022 until February
2023 when the waste pipe was fixed. The redecoration work was not completed until the end
of April 2023. She said that these events had caused considerable inconvenience and stress
for her family over a long period of time. British Gas considered that it had done everything it
could have done to progress the claim as quickly as possible and that any delays were 
outside its control. Miss S therefore referred her complaint to this service.
The services investigator upheld Miss Ss complaint and considered that British Gas should
pay £850 in compensation for the damage caused. Neither British Gas nor Miss S agreed 
with the investigators conclusions. In the circumstances, the matter was referred to myself 
to make a final determination in my role as Ombudsman. In July 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Miss Ss complaint as 
follows; - As there appears to be agreement that British Gas caused damage to Miss Ss 
property, the key issue to determine is whether it has since handled the matter in a fair and 
reasonable manner. On a provisional basis, I dont consider that it has, and Ill explain the 
reasons for this provisional conclusion.
I firstly turn to Miss Ss submissions. She said that when British Gas returned to repair the
damage, she was told that an asbestos check was needed. Miss S asked for this to be
organised as soon as possible or the damaged caused is going to escalate as we are now
experiencing mould in the bathroom. Miss S said that she and her young family had been
without proper washing facilities since September 2022. With Christmas 2022 approaching
she felt the repair needed to be carried out imminently so we arent living in a building site in
the lead up and she thought that hotel accommodation should be offered if the issue went
on for much longer.
When the contractors did attend in January 2023 to remove the waste pipe casing, she felt
there was no co-ordination or information provided by British Gas. She was concerned about
having an exposed, leaking waste pipe in her kitchen. When she contacted British Gas to try
to resolve her urgent concerns, she initially received an unhelpful response from the British
Gas representative and then didnt receive a promised call-back. The contractor attended
the following day but explained that the casing affecting the bedroom of one of the children
and nearly new bathroom suite/tiles also needed to be removed.
Miss S said that her partner had to take two days off work to liaise with British Gas. Miss S
said that finally, British Gas agreed that an external company should complete the repair.
She said that this company had visited many months before to evaluate the costings for
remedial work. Theyd said at that time that they would be happy to replace the waste pipe
too, but had no instructions from British Gas to do so. She said that, thankfully the contractor
instructed a carpenter to come to the house at the beginning of February 2023 to box in the
new waste pipe. At that time, she said I am thrilled that we can now bath our children in a
clean bath but they are still living in a home that needs a lot of work. I fear we have a lot
more distress to come.
Miss S didnt consider that it was the asbestos issue which had slowed things down as an
asbestos check was completed initially and then the report was lost, so another one had to
take place weeks after the initial one. She said that, ironically, the asbestos ceiling wasnt
touched during the repair at all So this concern could have been avoided had [the
contractor] been advised to complete the repair back in September. Miss S thought that the
fact that British Gas didnt have the same person assigned to the job had been the main
problem. She accepted that a British Gas representative called her sporadically and said that
theyd chase matters up, but it never seemed to speed up anything. Finally, she said that
British Gas had trebled her monthly fee for home insurance I presume to try and recoup the
money due to the damage they caused.
In conclusion, Miss S said that the whole scenario had been extremely stressful and
upsetting. Shed hoped that British Gas would have taken responsibility for this. She wanted
British Gas to fix the problem, repair the damage that had been caused and to reimburse
£300. This was the cost shed incurred for British Gas to carry out the descaling work. She
thought that in all the circumstances, the investigators figure of £850 was low, bearing in
mind the initial outlay and increase in monthly payments. She thought this left £450 which
was not particularly high for 8 months of stress, misery, endless time spent chasing, the
money spent on heating, let alone the health impacts whilst living in a damp home.
Turning to what British Gas have said about the matter, it explained that the claim hadnt
been straightforward, and that many of the challenges had been beyond its control. It
provided a detailed timeline of events and said that the claim progressed in the way it would
have expected it to. It considered that each property damage claim was unique, and each
depended upon how much remedial work was required. It also said that settlement
timescales could vary where contractors were used.
British Gas said that it contacted Miss S and instructed contractors in October 2022. It said it
was advised of the presence of asbestos in November 2022. It accepted that it had to chase
the asbestos contractors several times and it had said that the original instructions to
proceed hadnt been received. In December 2022, British Gas passed the building
contractors details to the asbestos contractors so that they could liaise re work dates. The
asbestos contractors eventually attended in January 2023 and British Gas then issued
instructions to attend to deal with the waste pipe repair. However, as its engineers were
unable to complete it as quickly as we would like, the building contractors appointed their
own plumber to deal with the leak. The plumbing repair and replacement of the waste pipe
casing were authorised in February 2023. The final redecoration works were then carried out
in April 2023 to bring the rooms back to pre-incident condition.
British Gas thought it was important to highlight that repair works couldnt be carried out until
the leak had been repaired, and that this was a lengthy repair. It said that the presence ofasbestos in the boxing meant that it first needed to be removed to access the soil stack. It
said that this took time and could only proceed when it was safe to do so and as and when
contractors were available. It also felt that it had maintained contact with Miss S where
required, to ensure she was fully aware of what was happening. It didnt agree that the way
it had handled matters was unreasonable, or that there had been excessive delays. It
explained that like many other organisations that use contractors, following the Covid
pandemic, there is less resource, lack of materials etc, and we feel we simply couldnt have
done any more than we have, to speed things up. It also said that when using a specialist
team, such as the asbestos team, it was reliant on their availability, and some appointments
could take longer to arrange than others.
Having considered all of the above, the reasoning for my provisional decision is as follows.
The starting point is that British Gas has acknowledged that in this case, its engineers had
caused damage to the waste pipe in Miss Ss property. I appreciate that there have been
multiple firms involved in this claim. In the circumstances, British Gas needed to efficiently
and effectively co-ordinate the efforts of its contractors, agents and insurers. However, I
dont consider that it did so in many respects. I also appreciate that the presence of asbestos
requires careful handling and use of specialist contractors, and this can inevitably cause
some delays. I also accept that following the Covid pandemic, British Gas may have
experienced resourcing issues. Nevertheless, many insurance companies have adapted to
these challenges and the customer is still expected to pay their insurance premiums. In
exchange, the insurer is expected to provide a satisfactory and timely service.
Firstly, I deal with the question of asbestos, upon which British Gas relies heavily to explain
the timescales involved in this case. Im satisfied that there is indeed evidence of the
presence of asbestos at Miss Ss property. The relevant report identified asbestos in the
ceilings although not in the waste pipe casing, as suggested by British Gas. Miss S thought
that, ironically, this wasnt touched during the relevant works. Whilst this may be the case, I
dont consider it was unreasonable for British Gas to have commissioned an asbestos report
and specialist casing removal, as it would have been unclear at that stage whether removal
of the waste pipe boxing could have impacted the ceiling. Nevertheless, the British Gas case
notes indicate that this aspect of the work wasnt progressed as efficiently as it could have
been. It accepted that it had to chase this contractor and that there was confusion regarding
the original instructions. In addition, once British Gas instructed the specialist contractors to
carry out work, it took several weeks before the work was eventually completed. On a
provisional basis and on the balance of probabilities I consider these to have been avoidable
delays by British Gas or its contractors.
Secondly, I note that Miss S has stated that the damage to the waste pipe led to the property
becoming damp and mould developing. British Gas evidence confirms this aspect of the
complaint. Its drying report obtained in November 2022 refers to extensive condensation and
water was observed running down the painted wall just inside the hallway. Its therefore
surprising that British Gas didnt arrange at the very least for provision of a dehumidifier at
Miss Ss home. Miss S then said shed had to open windows and had to turn up her heating.
Ive no reason to doubt that this is the case as the problem was continuing over the winter
months.
Thirdly, Miss S considered that British Gas had trebled the monthly premium which she had
to pay. This appears to have been an unexplained and unreasonable increase in premium.
Miss S isnt obliged to continue with British Gas cover however and, as long as British Gas
can explain the increase and the increase is in line with increases charged to all customers,
this isnt an aspect for which I would expect to award further compensation.
Fourthly, Ive considered the general fairness and reasonableness of British Gas actions in
relation to Miss Ss concerns. I note that British Gas doesnt appear to accept that Miss Sshould be paid any compensation for distress or inconvenience caused and it has not issued
a formal apology. However, British Gas was responsible for the waste pipe being dislodged
and this was the catalyst for a substantial amount of damage, disruption and distress for
Miss S and her young family. Its recognised that British Gas has paid for the commission of
reports, repairs and remedial works. Nevertheless, British Gas mistake resulted in Miss S
and her young family being without basic washing facilities for a very significant period. I
therefore agree with the investigator in this case that British Gas could have done more to
assist in her distressing predicament.
Regardless of the presence of asbestos at the property, it shouldnt have taken from October
2022 to April 2023 to place Miss S back in the position she was before the damage caused
by British Gas through no fault of her own. From the case notes, there appeared to be little
sense of urgency or concern in this instance where two young children were affected. British
Gas considered that the claim progressed in the way it would have expected it to, and I
consider this to be concerning.
Finally, I also consider on a provisional basis that British Gas communication with Miss S
was lacking. There appear to have been periods where there had been no updates from
British Gas, and I accept Miss Ss evidence that she received unhelpful service on occasions
and that promised call-backs didnt occur. I consider that this would have added to the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Bearing in mind all of the above, and on a provisional basis, I agree with the investigator that
a significant sum of compensation is appropriate in this case. I consider that its appropriate
that the compensation figure recognises that Miss S should not have been expected to bear
the cost of £300 for the initial descaling work which caused such significant difficulties. Im
also satisfied that its very likely that Miss Ss heating bill was somewhat higher than it would
otherwise have been but for the damage caused. In addition to these two factors, I consider
that the total sum of compensation should properly reflect the substantial impact the poor
service had caused. I therefore consider that compensation, to include all of the above
factors, in the sum of £1,200 is an appropriate sum, to recognise the significant unnecessary
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss S and her family over a sustained period.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Miss S and British Gas if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas hasnt indicated that it has any other final points which it would like to make, or 
any further evidence which it would like to supply. Miss S said she had nothing further to add 
and that all her points have been included in the provisional decision. She said hopefully this 
time British Gas take some responsibility. Miss S subsequently added details of what she 
considered to be further substandard repairs. However, as British Gas hasnt had the 
opportunity to issue a final response letter in this respect, its not a matter which can be 
addressed in this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint, and require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay Miss S compensation in the total sum of £1,200 within 21 days of this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman