The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited mis-advised him about a transaction and the 
balance of his account, causing him to become overdrawn. He also says the staff weren't 
empathetic and dealt with his complaint poorly.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020, setting out the background to the case and 
what I was minded to conclude: 
"Mr H says he owed his friend £80, so he agreed to pay a fine she owed Company A 
for that amount from his Starling account. Shortly after, he called Starling to check that 
an incoming payment had been received (which it had) and his balance  which was 
higher than he was expecting. He was told that the £80 transaction to Company A had 
been declined. So he withdrew cash and paid his friend. But when checking his 
Starling app a few days later, he saw the payment had since been taken. As a result, 
he was overdrawn.
When Mr H called Starling about this, it said there could have been a processing issue 
on Company As end which caused it to decline initially and take the payment later. Mr 
H queried why the transaction had gone through given his lack of available funds. 
Starling said this was because he had enough in his account when he authorised the 
payment. Mr H complained, saying hed been given the impression that the money 
was available to him as the payment had been declined. He also said the staff 
member wasn't empathetic  and the complaint wasn't resolved in three days as hed 
been told.
Starling said that, during the initial call, Mr H had been correctly told his balance and 
that the payment could be taken later. But it acknowledged that it hadnt explained 
how the transaction could be processed. As it was an offline payment, Company A 
could take it later if the initial attempt didnt work. Starling also said its staff had been 
courteous, and explained thatalthough hed been told it would aim to respond within 
three working days it did so within the regulated fifteen working days. In its final 
response, it offered £10 compensation.
Mr H didnt accept this and referred the matter to our service. He said he couldnt 
access the compensation as it had been paid directly into his overdrawn account. He 
said he hadnt been able to get hold of his friend to return the £80 overpayment as 
shed gone abroad. He said hed suffered a lot of stress and Starling was chasing him 
for the overdrawn balance  which he considered it responsible for. It took him a few 
months to pay off the overdraft.
DRN-1908793Our investigator asked Starling for a recording of the initial call, but it didnt provide 
this. Taking all the available information into account, he didnt think Starling had done 
enough to make it clear that the declined payment could still be taken. And he didnt 
think Mr H wouldve withdrawn money to pay his friend if it had. So he recommended 
that it should pay Mr H £80 for the transaction, refund any fees or interest charged, 
and remove any adverse information it had reported due to Mr H being overdrawn. He 
also suggested it should increase the compensation from £10 to £100, for unfairly 
chasing Mr H for payment.
In response, Starling provided the initial call recording. After listening to this, our 
investigator maintained that Mr H hadnt been given clear enough information about 
the declined payment. He explained that it therefore didnt affect his view. As Starling 
hasnt accepted his recommendation, the case has been escalated to me for a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to 
uphold this complaint - but to award a different amount than our investigator 
recommended.
I havent seen anything to show it was Starlings fault that Company A took the 
payment after initially declining it. As Mr H had authorised the payment, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Starling to have blocked it. The account terms make it clear that 
payments may still be allowed even if there arent enough funds in the account. But, 
listening to the initial call, Im not satisfied with Starlings explanation of the payment 
status. Mr H was told the transaction had been declined, and the advisor said:
Be aware that there is a chance it could be coming through as an offline 
payment so just keep an eye on that, but at the moment your balance is 
£139.63.
The phrase offline payment was said very quickly  I had to listen to the call a few 
times to catch it. In any event, I dont think that was an appropriate way to explain that 
the payment could still be taken. Given that Mr H was querying how much money he 
had available, I think Starling shouldve made this point clearer.
Ive thought about what the reasonably foreseeable consequences of this were. 
Shortly after the initial call, Mr H made a cash withdrawal large enough to pay his 
friend £80. When the Company A payment was taken, his overdrawn balance was -
£79.70. So I consider it unlikely he wouldve become overdrawn if he knew the 
payment could still go through  meaning he didnt need to pay his friend separately.
For this reason, our investigator concluded that Starling should refund the £80 
transaction. But Im not comfortable holding it responsible for this as I dont consider it 
to be a reasonably foreseeable loss. Although I agree that Starlings error caused Mr 
H to go overdrawn (Ive addressed this impact below), I wouldve expected him to get 
the overpayment back from his friend  particularly as the issue came to light within a 
few days. He says she went abroad and he hasnt been able to get hold of her. Whilst 
I empathise with the difficulty of his situation, I consider the dispute over the £80 a civil 
matter between him and his friend. Im minded to conclude that Starling cant 
reasonably be held responsible for his friends lack of response  so it doesnt have to 
refund this payment.That said, I dont consider it fair for Starling to report to the credit reference agencies 
that Mr H was in arrears  as he wouldnt have been but for its error. For the same 
reason, I consider it unfair to charge him for being overdrawn. Im satisfied Mr H did 
what he could to mitigate the impact of its error, bringing the account back in credit 
when he could around three months later. Banks are expected to keep customers up-
to-date about the status of their account, particularly when theyre overdrawn. But Im 
not satisfied Starling showed enough forbearance and due consideration in the 
circumstances. For example, it couldve been proactive and proposed a plan allowing 
Mr H to pay back the overdraft in a reasonable time (as he did) and at no additional 
cost.
From what Ive seen, its clear the lack of support from Starling caused Mr H trouble 
and upset  particularly given his vulnerable circumstances (which hes been open 
about with Starling, meaning it shouldve taken particular care to support him). 
Additionally, whilst I think the staff Mr H spoke to provided reasonable service, I do 
think Starling gave him a false expectation about how long the complaint was likely to 
take  causing him disappointment when this wasnt met. I agree with our investigator 
that Mr H should be compensated for this  and Im not persuaded that £10 is enough. 
I consider £100 compensation overall (so an additional £90 on top of what he's 
received) to be a fairer reflection of the impact Starlings errors had on him.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint and direct 
Starling Bank Limited to:
Remove any adverse information its reported to the credit reference agencies due 
to Mr H being overdrawn
Refund any interest and fees charged on his overdrawn balance
Pay him an additional £90 compensation"
 
I invited both sides to respond before I made my final decision. Starling accepted the 
outcome. But Mr H said he respectfully declined due to Starling lying about the first call 
recording and turning down the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
I appreciate why Mr H is unhappy that Starling initially told him it had listened to the first call, 
but then said it didnt have the recording. However, I was aware of this when I issued my 
provisional decision. And I concluded that Starling didnt make it clear enough that the 
payment could still be taken. So this hasn't caused me to revise my provisional decision. 
Similarly, whilst I appreciate that Mr H has been kept waiting for a resolution, both sides 
have the right to appeal an investigators view. And ultimately, I didnt reach the same view 
as our investigator about how the complaint should be resolved. So Im not persuaded it 
would be fair to award more compensation because of this.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision alongside everything else, my 
decision remains the same.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Starling Bank Limited to:
Remove any adverse information its reported to the credit reference agencies due
to Mr H being overdrawn
Refund any interest and fees charged on his overdrawn balance
Pay him an additional £90 compensation
This should be done within 28 days of being notified by us of Mr H's acceptance of my 
decision, failing which interest will accrue on the compensation at the simple rate of 8% a 
year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman