DRN-3426293
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly applied charges to his account, 
contributing to his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr J complained to Lloyds about the charges that had been applied to his account for using 
his overdraft, he said that these had contributed to his financial difficulties.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, and as Mr J was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to 
our service.
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he felt Lloyds 
should have realised Mr J might be struggling financially by October 2015 and so 
recommended that it refund all charges and interest applied form that point onwards. Lloyds 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 10 March 2022 I explained why I felt Lloyds had treated Mr J 
fairly and so wasnt intending to uphold Mr Js complaint. Neither Mr J nor Lloyds made any 
further comment following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds has charged Mr J over the years were fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services  and how and when it chooses to apply 
those charges  is a commercial decision. So this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloydss charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr J if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr J 
fairly and reasonably.
But based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr J unfairly or 
unreasonably, Ill explain why.
As our adjudicator explained, were only able to look at charges going back six years from 
when Mr J made his complaint. So Ive looked closely at Mr Js bank statements from March 
2015 onwards to get an idea of how he was managing his account. I can see that there were 
periods of time when Mr J was using his overdraft for extended periods, was going over his 
overdraft limit, and where payments were being returned because he didnt have enough 
funds to cover them. All of these issues can be signs of financial difficulties. 
However, in Mr Js particular circumstances I dont think the issues detailed above would 
have been enough to flag to Lloyds that something might be wrong. I say this because 
throughout the period of time weve considered Mr Js account received significant regular 
credits to the account which didnt suggest that there was no reasonable prospect of him 
seeing a credit balance. Indeed, I can see that while there were some extended periods of 
time when Mr J was overdrawn, his account was always bought back to a credit position, 
and at some points was regularly in credit by several thousand pounds. 
I can also see that, particularly in later years, Mr J was often transferring the bulk of the 
income into his account to another individual, which meant that his account would once 
again go back into an overdraft. Mr Js account also showed signs of regular overseas travel 
and other discretionary spending that wouldnt generally indicate someone who was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
I appreciate that all of this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr J wasnt experiencing 
financial difficulties. But in the absence of any contact from Mr J to say he was struggling 
 and Lloyds notes dont show any evidence to suggest he did make contact  there isnt 
anything which I think ought to have triggered Lloyds to review Mr Js circumstances in 
more detail, or alerted it to any potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees 
and charges it did.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr J, but Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt 
treated him unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
As neither Mr J nor Lloyds has said anything to make me change my decision, I remain 
satisfied that Lloyds has treated Mr J fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman