DRN-1988265
 
The complaint
This complaint is about Ms Ds mortgage with Mortgage Express. Shes unhappy with how 
Mortgage Express handled her attempts to secure a shortfall sale; that is, one where, by 
agreement with the lender, a borrower still has a balance to repay after the property has 
been sold
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
A lender isnt obliged to agree to a shortfall sale at all; its a concession that a lender 
considers on its merits, and it if agrees it, does so as a forbearance measure to help a 
borrower in a difficult situation.
Its also important to keep in mind that this wasnt a simple or straightforward transaction; a 
shortfall sale never is, but here there was an added complication. Ms D wanted to split part 
of the land off from the property itself, and sell the two parcels separately. 
This would have impacted on Mortgage Express security, and therefore affected how it 
exercised its commercial judgement. Mortgage Express may not have agreed to the terms 
Ms D wanted, but it didnt have to. It had to treat her fairly, and the available evidence 
doesnt persuade me it failed to do that.
I think its fair to say this process took longer to come to a conclusion than anyone 
anticipated at the outset, but there were more parties involved than just Ms D and Mortgage 
Express. Whilst there were delays on Mortgage Express part, they were relatively minor and 
I think the compensation it has paid Ms D is fair in the circumstances.
The position now is that the sale has gone through and a shortfall arrangement is in place. 
Theres been the added complication of lockdown; Ms D hasnt been able to pay in recent 
months but tells us she expects to resume doing so in August 2020. Ms D would like 
Mortgage Express to agree to a lower monthly payment, so it seems to me theres still a 
conversation for the parties to have going forward.
I cant prescribe how that conversation should go; its not up me to tell either party what they 
should agree to. Id simply make two observations: 
Mortgage Express still has an obligation to treat Ms D fairly; and 
treating a customer fairly doesnt mean a business must agree to everything the 
consumer asks for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman