DRN-4001031
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under a block 
building insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C is a leaseholder of a property that has a block building insurance policy. Mrs C isnt 
the policyholder, but the policy was taken out in part for her benefit.  
Following a storm, rainwater entered the property and all the residents needed to vacate 
their apartments, including Mrs C. She moved into alternative accommodation whilst repairs 
were carried out to the property, before returning home. 
Mrs C later complained to Aviva about its handling of the matter, via her representative. In 
particular, she was unhappy about the alternative accommodation arrangements and the 
reinstallation of her existing kitchen. 
Aviva said it had tried to arrange alternative accommodation for Mrs C. It noted there had 
been around ten nights where Mrs C hadnt been in alternative accommodation, and so it 
offered to pay her disturbance allowance of £15 for each day. Aviva said there was no 
evidence of water damage to Mrs Cs kitchen, and that it understood Mrs C had accepted 
this previously. Finally, Aviva said it had reimbursed Mrs C for all costs associated with the 
claim, but if she thought there were any other costs which hadnt been reimbursed, then it 
would consider any further invoices provided. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mrs Cs representative brought a complaint to this Service 
on her behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the disturbance 
allowance offered by Aviva was reasonable. She noted Mrs C had been offered like-for-like 
accommodation by Aviva, but had chosen different accommodation. The investigator said 
there was no evidence that Mrs Cs kitchen had been damaged by the storm, and thought 
any issues with regards to the reinstallation of the kitchen should be directed to the 
policyholders contractor/loss assessor.
Mrs Cs representative didnt accept our investigators findings. He said the need for the 
kitchen to be removed and reinstalled was directly linked to the storm. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only provided a very brief summary above of what happened, but Id like to reassure 
Mrs Cs representative that Ive read his submissions in full. 
Alternative accommodation
Mrs Cs representative hasnt disputed the investigators findings in respect of the alternative 
accommodation, but for completeness, Ive considered this.
Emergency accommodation was initially arranged for all the residents, however Mrs C was 
unhappy with the proposed hotel because she had a pet. An alternative was found, but 
Mrs C turned this down. She then self-funded her accommodation elsewhere, though this did 
involve her needing to move a number of times to different short-stay options. That of course 
was up to Mrs C, but Im satisfied emergency accommodation was available to Mrs C 
through Aviva if she wanted it. I therefore dont require Aviva to reimburse Mrs C for any 
interest charges on her credit card. 
There were a number of nights where Mrs C had to stay with family and didnt pay for 
alternative accommodation. Aviva offered to pay her £15 a day disturbance allowance for 
this, which I find to be appropriate. Aviva initially thought there were ten days where Mrs C 
had stayed with family which Mrs C didnt dispute. Though after bringing the complaint to this 
Service, her representative said Mrs C stayed with family for 14 days, which Aviva has 
accepted (though this hasnt yet been paid). 
Longer term rentals were then arranged for the residents. Mrs C turned down the options 
provided by Avivas agent. I understand Mrs C found some properties herself and put these 
to Aviva as possible options, but Aviva says those properties wouldnt accept its agents 
invoicing requirements so they couldnt be agreed. Mrs C did then find an alternative 
property, but as this was not comparable to her insured property, Aviva only agreed to 
contribute a monthly payment that was for like-for-like accommodation. 
I would expect an insurer to cover the reasonable cost of alternative accommodation when 
an insureds home becomes uninhabitable. That would be a similar type of property to the 
property insured. Whilst I havent seen details of the property Mrs C moved into, her 
representative doesnt seem to dispute that it wasnt a like-for-like property. I find it was 
reasonable for Aviva to contribute the amount it would have paid for similar alternative 
accommodation. I understand that Mrs Cs contents insurer contributed to her alternative 
accommodation costs, so she didnt need to pay the full remaining amount herself.
Kitchen
The repairs to the property, including the removal and reinstatement of the kitchen, were 
carried out by a contractor acting on behalf of the policyholder. As Aviva did not arrange for 
its own contractor to carry out the repairs, that means it was not responsible for the standard 
of the repairs that were carried out. Any concerns about this would need to be directed to the 
policyholders contractor.
Mrs Cs representative has asked me to look into how the policyholders loss assessor and 
contractor were appointed, but it is not for me to do this. That decision was taken by the 
policyholder, and so if Mrs Cs representative would like more information about this, I would 
suggest he contacts the policyholder directly. 
Mrs Cs representative says theres damage to the kitchen and it shouldnt have been 
reinstated. I understand the contractor initially didnt intend to reinstate the existing kitchen, 
but it was later reinstated. The policyholders loss assessor said it had been agreed with 
Avivas loss adjuster that there was no damage to the kitchen, and it didnt require 
replacement. It seems to me that responsibility for this decision lay with the policyholders loss 
adjuster/contractor. Aviva didnt prepare the schedule of works, and only approved this (as 
Id expect, before agreeing to make any payments for the repairs). I see that Avivas loss 
adjuster was under the impression that the kitchen was undamaged, and so I can 
understand why they would have agreed for this to be reinstated. But ultimately, the repairs 
were carried out by the policyholders contractor, and so they were responsible for the 
quality of those repairs. 
Though having said that, I havent seen any evidence that the kitchen was damaged by the 
storm and therefore shouldnt have been reinstated. It seems the issues relate to the quality 
of the reinstallation. Mrs Cs representative has provided photos of some problems with the 
kitchen (such as doors not sitting flush) as well as an independent report (from a joinery and 
furniture manufacturer and installation company) which said the installation was to a poor 
standard. I understand the contractor has corrected some outstanding snagging issues, but 
if further issues remain, these should be raised with the contractor who carried out the 
repairs.
Mrs Cs representative has argued that the reinstatement of the kitchen has voided the 
warranty from the original kitchen supplier (the kitchen was fairly new). I havent seen any 
evidence that this is the case, though even if it were, this isnt something that is covered 
under the policy.
Aviva had previously offered Mrs C an ex-gratia payment of £1,000 for the potential loss of 
warranty, though it was made clear this was offered outside the terms of the policy and that it 
was a time-sensitive offer. Mrs C chose not to accept this offer, which was of course up to 
her. I understand that offer has now been withdrawn. Since this offer was made outside the 
terms of the policy, I see no reason to require Aviva to pay this.
Other issues
Mrs Cs representative has also complained about the time taken to get responses, and that 
he sometimes didnt get a response at all. I note that a number of parties were involved in 
the claim, including the policyholders surveyor, contractor and loss assessor, as well as 
Aviva and their loss adjuster. I can only consider what happened with Aviva and its agents, 
and I havent seen that there were any significant delays in responding to Mrs Cs 
representative.
Mrs Cs representative has raised concerns about Mrs Cs apartment being occupied by the 
contractor without her knowledge, and that the contents of the apartment were placed into 
an unknown storage facility and without an itinerary being done. I think these should 
concerns should be directed to the policyholders contractor/loss assessor rather than Aviva. 
Before the complaint was brought to this Service, Aviva had offered to consider any further 
invoices which I think was reasonable. I see that our investigator forwarded Aviva some 
invoices sent to her by Mrs Cs representative, to see if these had been paid. Not all of them 
had been, and so Aviva offered to pay some of these. If Mrs C has any concerns about 
Avivas offer in respect of the actual amounts, she should raise this with Aviva as a new 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva should pay £15 disturbance allowance for each night that 
Mrs C stayed with family. As both parties accept this was 14 nights, this would be £210 in 
total.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman