DRN-3200668
The complaint
Mrs W says The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as Scottish 
Provident has unreasonably refused a claim she made under her critical illness policy. To 
resolve her complaint, she requires Scottish Provident to pay her claim in full.   
What happened
In 2003, Mrs W took out a Self Assurance policy with Scottish Provident, alongside 
mortgage lending. It offers her life and critical illness cover for a 23-year term. Included 
within the policy is total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit on a work tasks basis.   
In 2012, Mrs W suffered from a prolapsed spinal disc, and underwent a discectomy. 
However, she was left with disabling symptoms despite her surgery such as chronic lower 
back pain, leg pain and urinary disturbance. These symptoms deteriorated further in 2019 
causing weakness in Mrs Ws foot and leg.   
Mrs W made a claim to Scottish Provident for TPD under the policy. She provided detail from 
relevant specialists and her GP in support of her claim. 
As Mrs Ws policy required evidence of her inability to perform two of six specified work 
tasks, Scottish Provident proposed that an independent home assessment where a 
functional capacity examination was carried out. It took place in November 2018.  
Mrs W made a complaint to Scottish Provident in January 2019 with extensive submissions 
about the manner in which the assessment was undertaken, how the assessor had behaved 
towards Mrs W (as witnessed by her partner) and the evidence she had failed to obtain. 
In April 2019, Scottish Provident rejected the complaint.  In respect of Mrs Ws TPD claim, it 
said it could not be paid as the assessor had concluded Mrs W could independently perform 
all of the work tasks and therefore she could not meet the TPD definition. Specifically, she 
hadnt completed either the walking task but it was believed that she could complete it if she 
had sufficient motivation to do so.  
Mrs W remained unhappy and continued corresponding with Scottish Provident. It was 
thereafter suggested that a second assessment be carried out, offered as a gesture of 
goodwill by Scottish Provident. Unfortunately, the second assessment became delayed 
because of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. It took place in June 2021.  
In July 2021, Scottish Provident rejected the claim. It said the second assessor had reached 
the same view as the first, and there was not objective evidence that Mrs W could not 
complete two of the six listed work tasks. Four of the tasks were not in dispute as Mrs W 
could do them. For the remaining two  walking and lifting  Mrs W had refused to complete 
them as observed by the assessor. He formed the view that Mrs W had no barriers to 
prevent her from attempting either walking or lifting. The claim was therefore rejected again.  
Mrs W lodged a second complaint. Scottish Provident was not prepared to change its view 
on the claim. It said the second assessor had undertaken a distinct evaluation from the first 
one. So, Mrs W brought her complaint to this service in September 2021. 
Mrs W said the second assessor didnt give her the opportunity to demonstrate either 
walking or lifting and carrying and instead made assumptions. He also refused her request to 
record the meeting. Finally, the assessor injured Mrs Ws neck causing her to visit her GP  
and he denied this. Mrs W explained that Scottish Provident had caused her a great deal of 
anxiety at a time where she was suffering with her disability. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. 
He noted that he couldnt look at the issues arising in Mrs Ws first complaint, as these had 
been brought to this service beyond six months from the date of the complaint. In respect of 
the decision to refuse the TPD claim, he felt that Scottish Provident had acted fairly based 
on the two independent assessments of Mrs W.  He also said he had not seen any objective 
evidence to conclude that the assessor had acted unreasonably, as Mrs W had suggested.  
Mrs W disagreed. She said that our investigator had said he couldnt reach a conclusion as 
to what had happened at the two assessments, but he had also contradicted that by saying 
that it was reasonable for Scottish Provident to rely on the content of the assessments.  
Further, Mrs W felt the investigator had not given any weight to the evidence from her GP 
and the confirmation that her condition had deteriorated further in 2019, with medical 
evidence such as scans supporting this finding. Given this, Mrs W explained that she wanted 
the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a further review.  
Scottish Provident had no further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Mrs Ws disability. I send her my best wishes at what I can see 
has been a hard time for her. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the 
view that this complaint cannot succeed. I recognise this will be upsetting for Mrs W, but I 
will explain my reasons below.  
I do not doubt Mrs Ws explanation of her circumstances. But, sadly, a policyholder ceasing 
work or experiencing symptoms that impact daily activities doesnt mean a claim is 
automatically payable.
The policy Mrs W has is not one that gives income protection  so it cant simply pay out 
where the policyholder is too ill to work. It offers cover in the event of death or a listed critical 
illness. Unlike some of the other critical illnesses listed on the policy, TPD is not payable 
upon diagnosis of the underlying condition(s) a policyholder may have. Its based on when 
the disablement means the policyholder has no reasonable chance of undertaking specific 
common employment tasks, and most importantly, that this will be the case permanently.
To satisfy a claim, the policy wording must be met in full. In Mrs Ws policy, the wording 
says:
Total and Permanent Disability - Work Tasks
Becoming permanently disabledBefore age 65
Through illness (other than mental illness of any kind) or injury
To the extent of becoming unable to do any 2 of the 6 work tasks listed below 
without the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive aids 
and appliances; and
The disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement
Walking - The ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface with a stick or other aid 
without stopping or severe discomfort
Lifting - The ability to pick up 1 kg from table height and carry it for 5 metres
Using a pen, pencil, or keyboard - The ability to use a pen, pencil, or keyboard with 
either hand using any aids
Hearing - The ability to hear well enough to understand someone speaking a 
common language in a normal voice in a quiet room with a hearing aid
Speech - The ability to be understood in a common language in a quiet room
Vision - The ability to see well enough to read 16 point print using spectacles or other 
aids
Neither party disputes that Mrs W can complete the last four tasks set out in the definition 
above. To satisfy a TPD claim under the policy, there needs to be objective evidence that 
Mrs W cannot complete the walking or lifting tasks set out above even with assistive aids, 
and that there will not be any prospect of improvement of her disability in the future.  
In terms of the definition regarding prospect of improvement, I believe it is clear that Mrs W 
doesnt have any realistic surgical or medical options remaining open to her. After she 
underwent nerve conduction studies in 2020 to try to ascertain the reason for her further 
deterioration, her consultant orthopaedic spinal surgeon could not find a specific cause for 
the symptoms particularly those in Mrs Ws ankle, though it was suspected that her chronic 
pain remained because of impingement in a particular spinal nerve root. Nevertheless, the 
surgeon was clear that further surgeries were not a realistic option for Mrs W in the absence 
of any evidence of acute denervation.  
I understand Mrs W has kindly supplied evidence of state benefits she has received since 
she was medically retired in 2013. I can see that in assessing her for receipt of these 
payments, a number of measures have been assessed, including her mobility  where it is 
has been confirmed in an assessment that she cannot walk more than 20 metres.  
While Im mindful of this evidence and Mrs Ws account, my remit is to review all of the 
information Scottish Provident has assessed and decide if it has reasonably concluded that 
Mrs Ws claim isnt payable. It was a reasonable suggestion that Mrs W undergo a functional 
capacity evaluation as it will not have had objective evidence of that undertaken for state 
benefits  as that decision is made on a different basis.  
Mrs W wasnt able to perform the walking task in the first assessment, and was restricted to 
walking approximately 50 metres with the aid of her cane. Despite this, the assessor said 
she could walk 200 metres, but the fear of pain stopped her from doing so. This was not 
measured in the second assessment as Mrs W couldnt complete the task.  
I recognise that Mrs W has explained to Scottish Provident how the increased weakness in 
her left leg/foot causes her significant unsteadiness; this makes her stumble and fall. She 
fundamentally disagrees about the distance she can walk with a crutch or crutches. 
However, even if it could be said Mrs W cannot and will not be able to complete the walking task, I dont think Scottish Provident was unreasonable in relying on the evidence in respect 
of the lifting task.  
In the second assessment, Mrs W says the assessor stopped her from doing the task as she 
attempted to place the item in a carrier bag on the handle of her walking aid. The assessor 
disputes this and says Mrs W did not want to carry out the task.  
In the first assessment, it says [Mrs W} was observed lifting and transferring a half-filled 4 
litre bottle of milk weighing an estimated 2kg from her kitchen side to the table in her living 
room, an approximate distance of 5 metres. She was able to do this with limited difficulties or 
restrictions observed, although she confirmed that her partner normally transfers some milk 
into a jug to assist her with making a cup of tea during the day.  
Mrs Ws comments on that statement were, a half-filled 4 pint container of milk weighs
1kg and not 2kg as you state. The carton I carried was less than half full.
Even if I accept Mrs W attempted the task in the second assessment, it would appear that 
objectively, she is able to undertake the task of lifting, as defined by weight of 1kg and 
distance of 5 metres  albeit that Mrs W does so with the aid of a crutch or crutches, and 
notwithstanding that she suffers from unsteadiness, pain and limitations in her movement. 
There isnt clear evidence that I have seen by which Scottish Provident should have 
reasonably concluded that Mrs W cannot meet the lifting task. 
I do not underestimate how severely incapacitated Mrs W is by her disability and I realise 
that her mobility is incredibly limited. But the definition set out above is a high threshold to 
meet. This is true of TPD definitions generally  it is not specific to Scottish Provident, but 
instead, set out as suggested wording by the Association of British Insurers in model 
wordings for such policies. 
To successfully make a TPD claim, there needs to be evidence of permanency and totality 
as well as - in the case of work tasks - the insured person being unable to perform the task 
in question by themselves even with the use of special equipment and therefore needing the 
help or supervision of another person to do so.  
From the information Ive seen, Scottish Provident was reasonable in concluding that Mrs W 
can perform the lifting task, as evidenced by her self-reporting of her condition and the 
observed first assessment. The policy wording requires a policyholder to be permanently 
unable to perform two of the six defined work tasks and the remaining four are not in dispute; 
therefore, the policy definition was not met and consequently a claim wasnt payable. 
Mrs W remains free to provide further evidence of her measured inability to complete the two 
specific tasks to Scottish Provident to have another claim considered at any point before the 
policy ends and possibly retrospectively, if the evidence showed she met the definition at an 
earlier point in time. 
For this complaint, I dont find Scottish Provident to have unreasonably refused the claim.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont uphold the complaint or make any 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman