DRN-4158721
The complaint
This complaints about an Alliance and Leicester-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs F hold with 
Santander UK Plc. There are several elements to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  Ill detail them 
below  which relate primarily to how Santander has treated them during a period of arrears.
What happened
The broad circumstances of the dispute are known to Mr and Mrs F and Santander. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs F being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The background to the complaint is a spell of financial hardship that started in 2019. Arrears 
built up, and in 2021 Santander began legal action to recover the debt. In May 2021, a 
payment arrangement was agreed, but Santander continued with the court action. This was 
eventually struck out, in November 2021, after Mr and Mrs F had complained about 
Santanders actions.
In a decision dated 22 May 2022, I determined that our jurisdiction to consider this complaint 
was confined to the following: 
points 3, 4 and 5 of Santanders final response dated 17 November 2021, which are;
oa payment arrangement was set up to collect payments on the 28th of the 
month instead of the 31st;
oa letter was sent by mistake saying the payment arrangement had been 
broken;
othe costs of solicitors acting for Santander  a firm Ill refer to as AC  were 
added to the mortgage debt; and
points 1-3 of Santanders final response dated 2 August 2021, which are;
oon agreeing a payment arrangement on 26 May 2021, Mr and Mrs F were 
apparently told this would stop possession proceedings, but a hearing was 
then set for 20 July 2021;
oAC told Santander that a payment made on 26 May 2021 was made the 
following day; 
omembers of staff who handled phone calls on 19 May and 11 June 2021 were 
condescending in their manner.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Santander had treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly on any of 
these issues. Theyve asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive set out my conclusions and the reasons for them below, using the 
same headings I used in the above summary.
A payment arrangement was set up to collect payments on the 28th of the month instead of 
the 31st
I wouldnt expect a lender to agree to an arrangement to collect payments on the 31st of the 
month when five months of the year dont have 31 days. The most days that every month 
have is 28, so it sensible and reasonable that the 28th day of the month be the latest day in 
the month to be used for a payment arrangement. Anything later than that and an 
arrangement is guaranteed to fail.
A letter was sent by mistake saying the payment arrangement had been broken
It isnt in dispute that this happened. Santander apologised and sent Mr and Mrs F a cheque 
for £250 compensation, albeit its my understanding the cheque wasnt cashed. In my view, 
that is fair and proportionate to the likely effect of the error. If no offer had been made, I 
would not have awarded more for an error that, whilst irritating, causes no financial 
detriment. 
The costs of solicitors acting for Santander  a firm Ill refer to as AC  were added to the 
mortgage debt
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges incurred by solicitor acting for them in recovery action. But lenders 
also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been applied in 
accordance with the account terms, well still give separate consideration to whether theyve 
been applied fairly. 
The following legal costs were incurred by AC and debited to Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage 
account:
14 October 2021 £1,069
14 November 2021    £120
18 November 2021    £120
Santander has agreed to remove these charges, backdated for interest purposes. In my 
view, thats fair.On agreeing a payment arrangement on 26 May 2021, Mr and Mrs F were apparently told 
this would stop possession proceedings, but a hearing was then set for 20 July 2021
Its not unusual for a lender contemplating legal action to agree a payment arrangement but 
then continue with the court hearing. The premise behind this to seek a court order that 
backs up the arrangement to give the lender a greater sense of security in case the 
arrangement isnt kept to. Its then for the court to decide whether to grant a possession 
order that is suspended on condition the borrower keeps to the payment arrangement. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F should reasonably have understood from the phone 
conversations that the court proceedings would continue despite the payment arrangement 
being agreed. They were told this in the 19 May 2021 phone call, and the message was 
consistently reinforced throughout the course of the 26 May 2021 call.
AC told Santander that a payment made on 26 May 2021 was made the following day
AC told Santander on 27 May 2021 that it had agreed the arrangement, and taken a 
payment, the day before but was having difficulties logging this on the system. Its possible 
Santander took this to mean the events being described took place a day later than they did. 
If so, the confusion is unfortunate, but nothing more than that. In my view, nothing turns on it, 
and it caused no detriment.
members of staff who handled phone calls on 19 May and 11 June 2021 were 
condescending in their manner.
These are always difficult matters to deal with as everyone perceives things differently. One 
persons assertiveness is anothers rudeness; one persons straight-talking is anothers 
condescension. 
As our investigator set out when she gave her view of this case on 24 March 2023, 
Mr and Mrs Fs conversations (each of them spoke from time to time, and in the 
11 June 2021 call, both frequently spoke at the same time) were stressful and at times 
heated. Having listened to those calls myself, I havent set out the content in similar detail 
here; theres no need to. All Id say is that the stress in those calls is palpable. 
Thats understandable, given how close Mr and Mr F have been to what must be a horrible 
situation to have to deal with. But overall, I think the call handlers at all times retained the 
requisite degree of civility, courtesy and professionalism that Id expect of them in such 
circumstances. Certainly, I dont find there to have unfair treatment in how the calls were 
handled. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs F £250 and remove the three items of 
solicitors fees detailed above from their mortgage account, backdated for interest purposes, 
and I think that is fair in all the circumstances. Accordingly, my final decision is that 
Santander UK Plc should, if it has not already done so:
pay Mr and Mrs F £250; and
remove the following legal fees from their mortgage account, backdated for interest 
purposes;
o14 October 2021 £1,069
o14 November 2021    £120
o18 November 2021    £120. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman