DRN-2699367
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Vanquis Bank Limited dealt with a fraudulent account 
that was opened in his name.
What happened
In March 2019, a Vanquis credit card was fraudulently opened in Mr Cs name. Mr C 
discovered this and reported it to Vanquis.
Vanquis asked Mr C to send them a form so they could start an investigation. Mr C was 
working abroad at the time, in a remote location. He says he was told on the phone that 
Vanquis would only accept the form by post. That meant he had to travel to the nearest city 
and stay overnight in order to post the form back internationally. It later turned out they 
wouldve accepted it by email.
It took some time for the form to arrive, which delayed the fraud investigation. Vanquis 
closed the account and amended Mr Cs credit file in July 2019.
Mr C complained about having to send the form by post, as well as other issues such as the 
time he spent dealing with Vanquis, the length of their investigation, his international call 
costs, and the effect on his credit file.
Vanquis offered Mr C £275 compensation in total. Our investigator looked into things 
independently and felt £750 compensation was fairer. Mr C disagreed, as he felt £2,000 was 
more reasonable. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will say that I understand Mr C has been the victim of a crime here, and so he has 
my sympathy. I can imagine that the fraudsters have caused him a good deal of distress, 
and this will have been even more difficult to deal with while abroad.
Vanquis say they cant find the recordings of Mr Cs calls, so they cant be sure what they 
told him about returning the form. Here, Mr Cs testimony has been consistent and plausible, 
he tried to get the relevant recordings to back up what he said, and it seems unlikely hed 
have gone to the trouble of sending the form by post if he knew he didnt have to. So I think 
its most likely that Vanquis did mis-advise him.
Ive thought very carefully about how Vanquis should put things right. When a business gets 
something wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to acknowledge their error and 
the impact that it had.
Ive taken into account that Mr C felt he had to travel quite some way to the nearest postal 
facility, including an overnight stay and the costs involved. Ive also taken into account the 
call costs he gave us, the delay in sorting things out, his credit file being negatively affected 
in the meantime, and the general stress involved. Of course, Ive also taken into account the 
time that Mr C had to spend dealing with this situation. Though Ive not based the amount of 
compensation on his hourly rate as I dont consider one persons time to be intrinsically 
worth more or less than anothers. So while I understand where Mr C is coming from, Ive 
considered that point on a more holistic basis.
When it comes to the amount of compensation Id award, its worth bearing in mind that the 
actions of the fraudster, rather than Vanquis, will have been responsible for a significant part 
of Mr Cs distress and inconvenience. Further, it was always going to take some time to 
resolve the situation, and it takes time for a credit file to update in any case. Its also worth 
bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, and not to issue large fines 
or punish businesses. 
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that £750 is a fair 
total amount of compensation to put things right here.
Putting things right
I direct Vanquis Bank Limited to pay Mr C £750 compensation in total.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I agree with our investigator that Vanquis Bank Limited 
should pay Mr C £750 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman