DRN-4259470
The complaint
Mr B says NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, withheld a refund made to his (then closed) 
credit card account by a third-party.
What happened
In August 2022 a third-party refunded £91.90 to Mr Bs credit card account. From November 
2022 Mr B tried to find the payment with Marbles and obtain the refund but he said it kept his 
money for over a year. 
Marbles didnt uphold Mr Bs subsequent complaint, saying it could find no error in the 
administration of his account. But, in April 2023, it agreed to refund £91.90 to a bank account 
of his choice.
Unhappy with Marbless response, Mr B brought a complaint to this service. On sending us 
its submissions, Marbles agreed to pay him £100 as compensation for any inconvience 
caused in addition to the refund it had already offered. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and considered that Marbless latest offer was fair in the circumstances.  
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that something went wrong to the extent that Mr B didnt receive the refund 
he was expecting when he was expecting it. I cant comment in great detail about the actions 
of the third-party in processing the refund given the available information and because this 
complaints about Marbles, not the third-party. But it does seem that the third-party 
attempted to refund the amount back to the Marbles account in August 2022. 
Its difficult to say with any certainty, but it would appear problems arose because the 
Marbles account had already been closed (more than two years) before the attempted 
refund. I gather the account was closed at Mr Bs request. Because of the sequence of 
events, there are no statements available after the date of closure, or around the time of the 
refund more than two years later, for me to review. I dont think Marbles is responsible for 
that.
That being the case, I cant fairly say that Marbles did anything wrong with regard to 
processing the refund. I realise that Mr B feels strongly that it did but Im afraid the evidence 
doesnt indicate that to me on balance.
Having said that, I recognise that Mr Bs been frustrated by the responses hes received from 
Marbles in querying the whereabouts of the refund. As compensation for that, Marbles has 
offered to pay him £100 in addition to refunding him in full. Again, Im aware that Mr B 
doesnt consider the offer to be fair. Hes asked that it pay him £100 for every month hes 
had to wait for the refund.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr Bs said. But, taking account of the level of 
inconvenience hes been caused, the refund amount, and the period of time the issues been 
ongoing, Im satisfied that Marbless offers fair in all the circumstances. Mr B says Marbles 
should face legal penalties for its actions, but I cant comment on that as this service isnt a 
regulator and has no power to impose fines or penalties on financial businesses.
Putting things right
In addition to paying Mr B the full amount of the refund as its agreed to, Marbles should pay 
him £100 in total as compensation for the inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided that NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, should put things 
right for Mr B as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman