DRN-4037633
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Curve UK Limited charged her excessive fees and did not respond to 
her concerns in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mrs H says that she incurred extortionate fees in relation to a payment of £2,670. She says 
she used the chat facility on 12 January 2023 regarding this, but other than being contacted 
for details of the transaction, she heard nothing from Curve. Mrs H says shes been a 
customer of Curve since they first offered the account, to save on foreign transaction fees. 
She says that as a minimum there should be a warning message to advise of a fee and 
provide the option not to proceed. Mrs H made a complaint to Curve.
Curve partially upheld Mrs Hs complaint and credited her Curve account with £10. They 
apologised for the delayed responses to her chat conversation. They explained that their 
team works from the oldest tickets to the newest tickets, meaning every time Mrs H sent a 
follow up message her ticket was placed lower in their line. Curve said the transaction fee 
Mrs H incurred was correct. They said as a standard (free) customer, she has £1,000 per 
month fee-free FX (foreign exchange) spend limit, but she had exceeded her fee-free FX 
spend limit on this transaction, so she was charged an FX fee. Mrs H brought her complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said that although when Mrs H signed 
up for the account, there were no fees, Curve have made it clear that there are fees 
associated with certain transactions, as they sent her several emails explaining that there 
were fee-free limits for foreign transactions. There were also updates to the terms of service 
sent to her in 2018 and 2019. and Mrs H has a fee-free limit of up to £1,000 per 30-day 
period and anything over that, there is a 2% fee. He said Curve dont notify customers of the 
value of the fee until after the transaction, because it has not been calculated at the time of 
authorisation. Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint as she said derisory 
compensation had been credited which could only be spent as Curve cash and this is 
inadequate for the distress they caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mrs H that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as asking them to display a warning message when fees 
would be incurred as a result of a transaction. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Curve to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
My understanding is that Mrs H opened her Curve account when there were no fees for the 
type of transaction which incurred a fee recently. But Curve had updated their terms of 
service since Mrs H opened her account and they have told us they email all of their 
customers when they update their terms of service. I can see the terms were updated on at 
least a couple of occasions in 2019 as Ive been provided the terms of service from January 
and November 2019. These terms show that there were fees for spending in currency other 
than the currency of the selected payment card. At the time there was up to a spend of £500 
per rolling 30 day period where no currency conversion fees would be charged.
But Curve told us this fee-free limit was updated in 2022. I can see they sent their customers 
emails on 31 May 2022 which stated We are increasing our fee-free currency conversion 
limit for purchases made Mo-Fri by our Curve Standard customers from £500 per rolling 30-
day period, to £1,000." This was followed with an email to their customers the following day 
We're doubling our fee-free allowance on Curve Standard for purchases in foreign 
currencies. It's going from £500/month to £1000/month. And remember, you can also 
withdraw up to £200/month in cash abroad too - fee-free. That goes up to £400 when you 
upgrade to Curve Black and £600 when you upgrade to Curve Metal." So Im persuaded that 
Mrs H shouldve reasonably been aware that there were limits to fee-free currency 
conversion transactions. Im satisfied that the charge she incurred as a result of the 
transaction which she says was for £2,670 was in line with the terms of service. 
Ive considered what Mrs H has said about the compensation and that this was in Curve 
cash. But I can see a message a Curve agent sent her (which was seen on 25 January 
2023 at 4:47pm) which said on this occasion they would be able to send her the £10 to her 
via a bank transfer, and they told her what she needed to do to receive this to her bank 
account.
Im satisfied that the compensation was fair. I say this because Curve have a 3-5 working 
day response time to respond to the messages. So while it could appear to Mrs H that they 
were ignoring her, Im not persuaded that they were. They responded within five working 
days to the messages she sent them, including her complaint (which they would have longer 
to respond to). So Im not persuaded that further compensation is proportionate for what 
happened. So it follows I dont require Curve to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman