DRN-3369391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) declined a 
claim on their legal expenses insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have the benefit of legal expenses cover on their home insurance policy. 
Mrs K made a claim relating to an employment dispute. A support plan had been put in place 
and Mrs K was unhappy about the way that had been managed. She said she had been 
bullied and discriminated against, and resigned from her post claiming constructive 
dismissal.
UKI initially agreed to provide cover but later changed that decision. It said that having 
considered further information from Mrs K it had concluded the dispute dated back to 
October 2019, the legal expenses insurance didnt start until January 2020, and theres no 
cover where a dispute has already started before the policy begins.
Mrs K complained about the decision but UKI didnt change its mind. When she brought the 
complaint to this service our investigator agreed with UKI that the dispute started before the 
policy was taken out. So Mrs K has requested an ombudsmans decision. She has made a 
number of points, including:
She never complained about her employers actions until February 2020, when her 
line manager made a specific judgment  thats what gave rise to everything that 
happened.
If date of incident really means the very first event relating to her performance or 
the support plan that was in place, that would date back 2018.
Even if thats right, UKI did accept the claim and only withdrew cover later, but there 
was no new information and nothing had changed, so it wasnt fair to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes cover for employment disputes. But cover is only provided where the 
date of incident is during the period when cover is in force. 
Date of incident is defined as follows: the date of the incident that leads to a claim. If more 
than one incident arises at different times from the same cause, the date of incident is the 
date of the first of these incidents.
Theres an exclusion for incidents that begin before cover started. 
So for the claim to be covered, Mrs K would need to show that dispute began after she took 
out the policy in January 2020. And to decide when the dispute began, I need to look at 
when the first incident took place.
Mrs K says the relevant date is February 2020. I appreciate thats when she raised concerns 
about what was happening. But looking at the grievance she raised about her treatment, this 
refers to various issues, including the way the support plan was managed during 2019. It 
referred to an appraisal meeting in October 2019 as an example of bullying, harassment and 
victimisation. There were ongoing issues leading to the mid-year appraisal in February 2020.
I dont think the fact a support plan was put in place would necessarily mean there was a 
dispute. And I appreciate the particulars of claim filed with the employment tribunal refers to 
implementation of the plan from February 2020 onwards. But Im satisfied from the 
documents Ive seen that Mrs K was already unhappy with the way the plan was being 
implemented during 2019. And she says that in October 2019 she felt she was being bullied 
and harassed. 
This was all a series of connected events, and Mrs K already felt she was being treated 
unfairly before the policy started. I dont think it would be fair to say the dispute only started 
in February 2020 and wasnt related to everything that had led up to that point; it was all 
directly related. Im satisfied the first incident was before she took out the insurance.
Although UKI had initially said it would cover the claim, it was entitled to review the claim and 
did so once further information was received, specifically the employment tribunal 
documentation. If at that point UKI was satisfied Mrs K wasnt in fact entitled to cover, it 
wouldnt be fair to expect it to carry on providing cover, unless she had acted to her 
detriment as a result of being told she had cover  for example if she only took action 
because she thought she had cover, and would not have pursued the matter otherwise. I 
dont think thats the case here. She had already resigned on the grounds of constructive 
unfair dismissal, claiming discrimination and victimisation (on the advice of her solicitor) 
before she made her claim on the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman