DRN-2560301
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection 
with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
Mr R says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr R opened a store card account in a shop in 1997. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Rs store card 
each month if hed made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she didnt think 
Mr R would have taken out the PPI policy if AXA had made it clear to him that he wouldnt be 
able to claim for existing medical conditions.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for much the same reasons as the 
adjudicator. 
The policy didnt cover Mr R for any medical condition or illness which he knew about, or 
ought to have known about, or for which hed sought or received advice or treatment from a 
doctor during the 12 months before the policy started.
Mr R had had a major operation the year before he opened the store card account, and he 
was still taking medication following the surgery. Its true that hes told us that as far as he 
was aware, he was in good health when he opened the account. But the surgery was both 
serious and recent. And Mr R wouldn't have been able to make a successful sickness claim 
under the policy if he experienced any complications from the surgery, or further symptoms 
related to the medical condition that had given rise to the operation. 
I cant know exactly what was said to Mr R when he opened the store card account. But Ive 
seen nothing to make me think that AXA drew the provision about existing medical 
conditions to Mr Rs attention, as it should have done. And I think its likely that if Mr R had 
been aware of the provision, he wouldnt have thought the policy worth taking out.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr R in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr R would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis- sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr R owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mr R 
would have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the 
refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr R would have owed each month without PPI  Mr R 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 
8% a year) on the extra Mr R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr R would have owed AXA something on his store card.
D. AXA should tell Mr R what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr R that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr R a certificate, showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman