DRN-2860930
The complaint
Mr W complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money), for its 
actions and information in relation to payments charged to his credit card. He wants Virgin 
Money to reimburse him for any additional charges he incurred and to pay him 
compensation.
What happened
Mr W held a Virgin Money credit card. He used this during each month and then settled part 
or all of his balance when he received his income. 
In summer 2020, Mr W purchased a mattress at a cost of around £850. 
He used his Virgin Money credit card as the supporting payment method, and used a cost 
spreading app, S, to pay the sum off over 12 months. 
The terms and conditions for S explained that each month it would apply to his credit card for 
pre-authorisation for the remaining balance. Once approved, it would apply for the agreed 
monthly payment. 
If the pre-approval for the larger balance was rejected, S would apply for the full remaining 
balance. 
Mr Ws payment was processed in this way in July 2020, and his monthly payment of £69 
was taken from his card. 
In August 2020, Mr W learned that S was about to apply for pre-authorisation from his Virgin 
Money credit card. He did not have sufficient credit available for this so he contacted Virgin 
Money. He was advised that S had tried to take the full payment and that this had been 
declined. Mr W asked for confirmation that the full payment would not be taken, and that he 
would not incur charges, and he was told that this would not happen.
Shortly afterwards, S applied for the full balance and Virgin Money approved this, taking Mr 
W above his credit limit. 
Mr W complained. He felt that he had been left without his facility to spend through the rest 
of the month because of S taking the full amount, and he thought that Virgin Money ought to 
have declined the transaction from S. 
Virgin Money responded to his complaint. It partially upheld the complaint on the basis that 
the agent Mr W had spoken to appeared to misunderstand that the declined payment was 
the pre-authorisation, and that Virgin Money may still approve the payment when requested. 
The agent therefore gave confusing information to Mr W. Virgin Money offered Mr W £50 
compensation to reflect this confusion. 
Mr W was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She noted that Virgin Money had given 
confusing advice, but that Virgin Money had applied its terms and conditions correctly and 
was entitled to approve the transaction. She therefore felt that Virgin Moneys offer of £50 
was reasonable. 
Mr W did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
iWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration here and can see why he is upset. It seems to defeat the 
object of using a payment spreading service if he needed to have available funds for the full 
balance at the time of pre-approval each and every month. 
That said, I agree that Virgin Money acted in line with its terms and conditions, and was 
entitled to both decline the pre-approval, which would have notionally taken Mr W over his 
credit limit, and also to approve the balance being taken when this was requested by S. 
The transaction requested by S was legitimate and was made under Mr Ws agreed terms. I 
appreciate that Mr W realised that the system operated by S was not suitable for his 
situation and tried to contact Virgin Money to prevent the payment being taken, but by the 
time he realised this he was already bound by Ss terms. 
I agree that Virgin Moneys agent misunderstood the situation when speaking to Mr W, and 
that the information given during the call was confusing as a result, but I do not think that this 
made any material difference to the transaction being able to proceed. As my colleague 
explained, businesses are able to decide to approve a transaction exceeding the credit limit, 
and often do so to enable customers to make essential purchases. Virgin Money was not 
obliged to decline the transaction even though Mr W would have preferred this. 
I understand that Mr W found it frustrating when he tried to prevent the transaction 
proceeding, to believe it would not be processed, and then to learn that it had, so I agree he 
has suffered some distress and inconvenience due to the confusion, but this is limited. The 
majority of Mr Ws frustration is due to the transaction being requested by S in a way which 
did not work for Mr W, and because it was accepted by Virgin Money, which Virgin Money 
was entitled to do. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. I 
understand that this will be disappointing to Mr W but I hope it explains clearly why I have 
reached this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and do not ask Clydesdale 
Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman