DRN-2875340
The complaint
Miss S complains that Pepper Money Limited withdrew its mortgage offer when she was 
placed on furlough. She said that it wouldnt reassess affordability and incorrectly said that 
she was being paid by the government, when it was in fact her employer who was paying 
her wages.
What happened
In March 2020, Pepper Money issued a mortgage offer to Miss S to move home. But, in May 
2020, Pepper Money told Miss S it was withdrawing its offer because she was had been 
furloughed under the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme.
Miss S considers that Pepper Money hasnt treated her fairly. She said it incorrectly told her 
it was because it was the government who was paying her wages. She pointed out that she 
was still paying her current mortgage and hadnt taken a mortgage holiday. Miss S said she 
has lost around £1,000 in solicitor fees and this matter had caused her upset and distress.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the mortgage offer 
allowed Pepper Money to withdraw or vary it if there was a material change in Miss Ss 
ability to meet her obligations since she made her application. The investigator said that 
Miss S being furloughed was a material change in her ability to meet her obligations 
because at the time in question Pepper Money would not have known how long the furlough 
scheme would last  and there was an increased risk that Miss S might lose her job. He said 
that Pepper Moneys offer to refund the application fee and consider a new application if her 
circumstances changed was fair
Miss S didnt accept what the investigator said. Her representative made a number of points, 
including:
The reason Pepper Money gave for its decision is that her wages are being paid by the 
government so we cant lend to you.
There was no conversation about any return to work and Pepper Money made its 
decision before that phone call.
Miss S was still being paid and the mortgage was still affordable. Pepper Money failed to 
check this.
Pepper Money should provide a recording of the phone call.
There was no material change, it was a temporary drop in earnings.
The mortgage should have been re-underwritten based on new evidence.
The refund of the application fee was not a goodwill gesture  it was part of the contract.
Pepper Money still hadnt acknowledged or investigated the complaint.
Our investigator listened to the phone call in question, but it didnt change his mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about what Miss S has been through. It must have been a shock to hear 
that Pepper Money had withdrawn her mortgage offer for reasons outside her control. But 
after carefully looking at everything both she and Pepper Money have said, I dont consider 
that Pepper Money has treated her unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this 
case.
Pepper Money didnt have a free hand to withdraw the offer just because it wanted to. It 
could only do so for certain reasons set out in the mortgage offer. The offer says, as is 
relevant:
We may withdraw or vary a Mortgage Offer before advancing any funds to you:

(b) if there is a material change in your ability to meet your obligations to us since you made
your application for a Loan;

We will not be responsible for any loss you suffer if we withdraw the Mortgage Offer.
So Pepper Money could withdraw the offer if there was a material change to affordability.
Miss S had been placed on furlough by her employer. I consider that was material change to 
her ability to meet her obligations. I say that for two reasons. First, there was no guarantee 
that Miss S would be paid the same amount that she had originally declared on the 
application to Pepper Money  there was no requirement for employers to pay more than 
80% of usual wages. Second, part of Pepper Moneys obligations under the relevant rules in 
assessing affordability was to consider whether there will, or are likely to, be future changes 
to Miss Ss income. In May 2020, there was a high degree of uncertainty  about the 
economy generally and the furlough scheme. For example, how long it would continue for 
and what level of support would be offered to employers and employees.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Pepper Money to consider there was a material change 
to Miss Ss ability to meet her obligations. It was reasonable for it to have concerns about the 
change in income, how long that would last for and whether Miss S would return to work. So 
I dont consider Pepper Money has acted unfairly based on the information available to it at 
that time. I agree with the investigator that it could have left Miss S in a vulnerable position 
had it allowed the mortgage to go ahead.
Ive listened to the phone call where Pepper Money tells Miss S it is withdrawing the offer. It 
gave Miss S the option to keep the offer open until the original expiry date of 8 June 2020 
and discussed her return to work. I dont consider that it was unreasonable for it not to 
extend the offer further. And it set out that Miss S would need to make a new application if 
she wished to pursue an application after that.
During the phone Pepper Money said that the furlough was requiring the government to pay 
something towards [Miss Ss] salary. I dont agree that is the same as the government was 
paying Miss Ss wages. In any case, Im satisfied that Pepper Money made its decision fairly 
 and I dont think this comment changes my decision.The mortgage offer says the application fee is non-refundable. Nevertheless, I think 
refunding the fee was fair in the circumstances.
Pepper Money has produced a copy of a final response letter in relation to this complaint 
dated 12 June 2020. In that letter it addresses the complaint Miss S has made. There is no 
address on the letter. So I cant say if it was sent to the right address. But I am satisfied that 
it did investigate Miss Ss complaint and that it also did so when the complaint was referred 
to us. Its disappointing if Miss S didnt receive the final response letter. But as Im not 
upholding the complaint, I dont consider Pepper Money has anything further to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman