DRN-2089454
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has handled an
escape of water claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs B suffered a water leak at their property. They made a claim
on their home insurance policy, which RSA accepted. It appointed contractors to deal with
the claim. Due to the repairs that were needed, the drying contractor removed Mr and Mrs
Bs kitchen units and put them in storage.
Mr and Mrs B were put in alternative accommodation for some months while the property
dried, and works were carried out. They found that RSAs contractors had caused damage to
some of their things. In particular, one of the contractors had dropped a worktop and had
also broken the sink. When it came to refit their kitchen, Mr and Mrs B said they also found
damage to one of the cupboard doors. They said they found warping and bleaching to the
others. They werent happy with RSAs handling of their claim and complained.
RSA agreed to cover the cost of replacing the worktop, sink and replacing the cupboard
door. Two replacement sinks were ordered; but arrived damaged. RSA initially looked to
replace only the damaged door, but the kitchen manufacturer couldnt offer this. It also said
thered be a loss of colour match. RSA had already paid Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation
for its handling of the claim, but it offered them an additional £250 for their distress and
inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with RSAs response and asked us to look into their
complaint. They told us none of their kitchen doors aligned any longer. They felt many of the
problems that had arisen were because RSA had delegated the handling of the claim to
contractors. To resolve the complaint, they either wanted all of their doors and drawer fronts
replaced, or if this couldnt be done, then for a new kitchen to be fitted. Thats because the
kitchen manufacturer had told them new doors wouldnt fit on their existing kitchen
carcasses.
RSA let us know that after ongoing discussion with the kitchen manufacturer, itd been able
to provide a quote for doors, panels and plinths which would fit on the existing carcasses. It
also told us that overall, itd offered Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation during the life of the
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought
total compensation of £500 for RSAs handling of the claim was fair and reasonable. But he
thought RSA should fully restore the kitchen.
RSA disagreed. It said its current offer would fully indemnify Mr and Mrs B for the damage its
contractors had caused in their kitchen.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I felt RSAs current offer of settlement was fair. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that while Ive summarised their complaint and all the
issues they experienced with their claim; Ive carefully considered everything theyve said
and sent us. I appreciate this claim has been going on for over a year and that its had a real
impact on their lives.
Its clear there have been errors in the way this claim has been handled. I can see that there
were delays in the alternative accommodation being extended for the family. This mustve
been stressful, given Mr and Mrs Bs daughter has a respiratory condition which couldve
been exacerbated if shed had to return to a damp or dusty home.
And its also clear that RSAs contractors have caused damage to Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen 
breaking a worktop, a sink and damaging a cupboard door. It also seems like the kitchen
doors became warped and bleached whilst in storage. I dont doubt how frustrating this
mustve been for Mr and Mrs B on top of the inevitable disruptions caused by a large-scale
claim.
So RSA needs to put right the mistakes its contractors have made. This means putting Mr
and Mrs Bs kitchen in the position it was in before the claim. I can see that it promptly
agreed to replace the worktop and sink, although I appreciate there were issues with the
replacement sink. These dont appear to be down to RSA though and I hope the sink has
now been replaced to Mr and Mrs Bs satisfaction.
Replacing the kitchen doors and panels has been a bit more problematic for RSA. What I
can see from its claims notes is that it accepted liability for the damage and agreed to
replace the doors, plinths and panels. It spent some months going back and forth with the
manufacturer, trying to check what the manufacturer could do. Originally, the manufacturer
told both RSA and Mr and Mrs B that new doors wouldnt fit on their existing carcasses. So I
can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs B felt RSA should replace their kitchen.
But in late-November 2019, the manufacturer told RSA it could provide new doors, panels
and plinths which would fit on Mr and Mrs Bs existing carcasses. It provided them with a
quote for doing so. In my view, it seems that if the doors, panels and plinths can be replaced
using the frames already in place, then this will be placing Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen in the
position it was in before the claim. So I think this is enough to indemnify Mr and Mrs B for the
damage RSA's contractors caused.
This means I dont think RSA needs to replace the whole kitchen  but I plan to direct it to
replace the doors, door plinths and panels in line with the manufacturers quote.
Ive then thought about what compensation feels fair for the way RSA handled Mr and Mrs
Bs claim. I understand they feel RSA shouldve handled their claim itself and shouldnt have
delegated it to contractors. Its standard in insurance claims though for insurers to appoint
loss adjusters and its network of contractors to carry out repairs on its behalf. So I dont think
it was unreasonable for RSA to delegate the works to its loss adjuster and contractors.
But as Ive acknowledged, there were clear mistakes in the handling of the claim and RSA
has acknowledged these. I currently think £500 total compensation  a significant award  is
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I plan to direct RSA to pay Mr and Mrs B £250compensation on top of the £250 its already paid.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept my provisional findings. They said it was RSAs own contractor 
that identified that the doors were warped. RSA had previously agreed for the doors to be 
fitted, but they were concerned this was no longer the case. They were also concerned that 
the manufacturer wouldnt be able to replace the doors, plinths and panels, as no-one from 
the manufacturer was prepared to confirm it could do so. The manufacturer had changed the 
thickness of its doors, which could cause issues with replacing them and they were also 
concerned about whether thered be a colour match issue. They havent been able to find a 
contractor whos prepared to do the work. Theyre happy for RSAs contractor to do the work 
if RSAs prepared to accept liability if its contractor causes any further issues.
RSA was prepared to offer two options. It could appoint another one of its suppliers to fit the 
doors, etc. It confirmed this wouldnt be the same contractor thatd caused the issues. Or it 
said Mr and Mrs B could submit an invoice for the work and RSA could cash settle the costs.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think RSAs offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
RSA has now confirmed its prepared to either arrange for another of its contractors to fit the 
new doors, plinths and panels  or it can cash settle if Mr and Mrs B can provide a quote for 
the work. As Mr and Mrs B have said they cant find their own contractor to carry out the 
work; they may wish to take up RSAs first option. I hope it reassures them that RSA is 
prepared to cover the fitting costs.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have concerns that the manufacturer wont be able to provide new 
doors that will fit on their existing kitchen carcasses. Ive seen a copy of a quote sent by the 
manufacturer which states that it can provide doors, plinths and panels only. So I think its 
most likely this can be done. Ive also seen copies of contact notes between RSA and the 
manufacturers head office. The manufacturer told RSA that its doors were now 22mm thick 
and would fit Mr and Mrs Bs existing carcasses. So it appears RSA has looked into ensuring 
the doors will fit, given the change in thickness. Overall, I think RSA has taken reasonable 
steps to make sure Mr and Mrs B are indemnified for the damage its contractors caused.
If any issues should arise though, Id expect RSA to take a fair and reasonable approach to 
putting things right. Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen shouldnt be left in a worse position than it was 
prior to the claim as a result of RSAs contractors. This decision is made on the basis that Mr 
and Mrs B will be put in the same position they wouldve been in if the repairs had happened 
as they should.
I still have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs Bs position and the additional distress 
and inconvenience they suffered as a result of the way this claim has been handled at times. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that overall compensation of £500 
feels fair and reasonable to recognise the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B have suffered.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer of settlement is fair.
I direct RSA to:
-Replace Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen doors, panels and plinths in line with the
manufacturers quote.
-Pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation, on top of the £250 its already paid them.
RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman