DRN-3817371
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc blocked and then closed his accounts and didnt let him 
withdraw his funds.
What happened
Mr A had an account with TSB. In October 2021, TSB blocked the account while it carried 
out a review. It completed the review in November 2021, and decided to close Mr As 
account. At this time, however, TSB wasnt willing to give Mr A access to the remaining 
funds. Dissatisfied, Mr A complained to TSB and referred the complaint to us.
After the complaint was referred to our service, TSB offered to pay Mr A £250 for the trouble 
and upset its actions caused. It also offered to pay simple interest (the rate was 8% a year) 
from the date the account was blocked until Mr A got the money back. Our investigator 
looked at this and thought that what TSB had offered was fair.
Mr A didnt initially agree. He doesnt accept that the compensation TSB awards should 
reflect this impact its actions had on him  he says these were his funds which should have 
been available for him to use when he chooses to. He thinks that fair compensation would 
be 100% interest and £1500 in compensation, to ensure this wouldnt happen to anyone 
else.
After our investigator explained our approach in more detail, Mr A said he agreed to the 
compensation TSB offered. But after TSB paid the compensation, Mr A says he didnt 
understand the offer  he thought hed get 8% of the funds that were withheld, which is 
£272. The interest TSB worked out came to £30.11 after tax. Mr A has therefore asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been referred to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses, like TSB, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements. These 
require them to monitor customers accounts and may mean they need to review 
transactions or accounts at any time. Where it does this it doesnt need to give reasons. And 
these legal and regulatory requirements may need TSB needs to block the account while the 
review is carried out.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied TSB was acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
requirements when it reviewed and blocked Mr As account.
Id expect TSB to complete any review in a timely manner. Here, TSB accepts that it could 
have released Mr As funds sooner than it did. And although I accept that the terms and 
conditions may have allowed TSB to close Mr As account, Id expect it to give him 
reasonable notice of this  and in Mr As case he effectively lost access to the account 
immediately.
I accept it might have taken TSB some time to complete its review. Nonetheless, TSB has 
agreed to pay simple interest  the rate is 8% simple per year  from 11 October 2021 when 
it blocked the account until Mr B got the funds back on 20 December 2021. It has also 
offered to pay Mr A £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
As such, I think the main question left for me to consider is whether this offer is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint should be upheld, the compensation 
Id recommend is intended to put the consumer so far as is possible in the position theyd be 
in if things had happened as they should have done. 
Here, TSB has already returned the £3,440.35 held in the account when the account closed. 
So Ive considered if TSB needs to do more.
TSB accepts it could have released Mr As funds sooner. So it has agreed to pay simple 
interest to Mr A to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket. The rate is 8% 
simple a year.
Mr A thinks he should get more. Hes suggested a rate of 100%. Hes also questioned why 
TSB has paid him £40.14, when hes worked out 8% would come to £272.
Im not persuaded it would be fair to award interest at 100%. This part of the award is 
intended to compensate Mr A for the time hes been deprived of money. It wouldnt have 
cost customers in the position of Mr A that much to borrow money, and nor would they have 
received that level of return had they invested it or left it in the account. Moreover, this is not 
intended to punish TSB. In the circumstances of Mr As complaint, and in line with our 
general approach to compensation for being deprived of money, Im satisfied a rate 8% is 
appropriate.
I appreciate Mr A worked out hed get more. But the rate is 8% per year, so for periods of 
less than a year Mr A receives a proportionate amount  here, just for the period between 
October 2021 and December 2021. I recognise Mr A is disappointed by the amount. But as 
Ive already said, Im satisfied this is a fair approach in the circumstances of Mr As 
complaint.
Ive next turned to the compensation for the distress and inconvenience TSB accepts it 
caused. I note that our investigator asked Mr A for further information about his 
circumstances, so we could assess the impact TSBs actions had on him. But Mr A said he 
wouldnt provide this. In particular, he said that some of the information he had also included 
details that werent related to this complaint but that he wasnt comfortable sharing with us. 
Mr A also says that hed lost his phone which included information about some of the 
payments into his account. I therefore need to consider the impact based on the other 
information Ive seen. Based on everything Ive seen, I accept that being denied access to 
the account would have been inconvenient to Mr A. That said, he appears to have used the 
account infrequently, mainly to receive money from the sale of gift vouchers. It appears he 
had access to other accounts. And while hes sent us rent statements and council tax 
showing he was in arrears, this is something that predated the closure of the account and 
Im not satisfied that TSBs actions made a material difference to his position. Mr A has in 
any case now had had the funds back.
With this in mind, while I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr A, I cant fairly tell 
TSB to pay him more. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied £250 fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset TSB caused.I note Mr A says he doesnt understand why his individual circumstances are relevant to the 
compensation wed award. In particular, he feels this was his money to do with as he 
pleased, and that we should award a significantly higher sum to ensure this doesnt happen 
to anyone else. He suggests that were telling him how he should spend his money and what 
is important for him. I recognise Mr As strength of feeling on this point. But where I award 
compensation for distress, inconvenience, pain or suffering, this isnt to punish the business 
but to reflect the impact its actions had on the complainant.
For these reasons, I think that the offer to pay Mr A £250 and simple interest is fair.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I think fair compensation in the circumstances of Mr As complaint 
would be:
£250 for the trouble and upset TSB caused.
simple interest (the rate is 8% simple per year) on the amount that was left in Mr As 
account from the date of the block until the date Mr A has got it back.
TSB says it has already paid this. HM Revenue & Customs required TSB to deduct tax from 
the interest. It says this came to £10.03. TSB should also give Mr A a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate..
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank PLC has now offered fair 
compensation in the circumstances of Mr As complaint. I understand TSB Bank PLC has 
already paid this. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman