DRN-3234805
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Real Garant Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft. He isnt happy 
that his motor warranty was cancelled. 
What happened
Mr B bought a car through a dealership and bought a warranty at the same time. When Mr B 
made a claim under the warranty some work was undertaken, and he was subsequently 
asked to pay for the work. This was because his policy was cancelled due to non-payment. 
Mr B complained to the dealership and then this service about this as he maintained hed 
paid for the warranty. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B but she didnt uphold his complaint. She liaised 
with Real Garant and it said the policy was cancelled after some work was carried out by the 
dealership due to non-payment. She asked Mr B for verification of payment for the policy but 
he didnt provide this. And ultimately she decided that Real Garants agent hadnt acted 
unreasonably in cancelling the policy. 
As Mr B didnt agree, maintaining that he had paid for the policy, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B but without any verification of payment for the warranty I cant say 
Real Garant have acted unfairly.
I know Mr B believes the policy cant be cancelled once it was put in place, but I wouldnt 
expect Real Garant or its agent to keep the policy in place if it hadnt been paid for - and I 
havent seen any evidence Mr B paid for this policy. Our investigator asked Mr B to send his 
bank statements in order that the payment could be traced and verified but Mr B hasnt 
provided this. And without any evidence to verify payment I cant say Real Garant have done 
anything wrong.
I note that Mr B has provided some details of a payment to the dealership. But this payment 
is for a totally different amount, seems to be paid using a foreign currency and doesnt 
correspond with the warranty. And as Mr B bought a car from the dealership as well I cant 
be sure that this payment has anything to do with the warranty.
Given all of this, I cant say that Real Garants agent has acted unreasonably in cancelling 
the policy. And Im sure it will revisit the position if Mr B can provide clear evidence that he 
paid for the warranty.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman