DRN-2036305
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt do more to prevent him 
from being the victim of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too 
much detail here. In June 2018 Mr G joined a betting syndicate. In November 2018 he used 
online banking to transfer £9,999 from his Nationwide account to the syndicates bank 
account which was held with another bank
In February 2019 Mr G was informed by appointed official receivers that they were closing 
down the syndicate. They asked Mr G to register details of the amount he was owed. Shortly 
after this, Mr G reported to Nationwide hed been the victim of a scam and asked it to help 
him recover his money. 
Nationwide contacted the receiving bank where the syndicates account was held and to 
which Mr G sent the money. But it was informed in March 2018 they were seeking legal 
advice and couldnt respond to the request at that time. The receiving bank stayed in contact 
with Nationwide, which provided information to the bank when requested, but it appears it 
hasnt been able to return any of the funds.
Mr G brought the complaint to our service. He said that Nationwide, along with other banks, 
has allowed the individuals running the syndicate, who he considers fraudsters, to move 
millions of pounds through its bank. He felt it was clear the society wasnt carrying out proper 
due diligence in protecting its customers against financial crime so it was to blame for the 
loss of his money.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that:
We could only consider Nationwides obligations in relation to Mr Gs own account, 
not how it monitored its accounts generally.
They felt the payment Mr G had made to the syndicate was unusual enough that 
Nationwide shouldve intervened when he made it. But, as there was nothing to 
suggest the syndicate was a scam at the time the payment was made, they didnt 
think any intervention from Nationwide wouldve likely prevented the payment being 
made.
They felt Nationwide had done everything we would reasonably expect in trying to 
retrieve the funds and this had unfortunately been unsuccessful.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings. He felt Nationwide had failed in its obligations 
to him. As a result the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint was that various banks including Nationwide failed to adequately protect its 
customers from financial crime because it failed to identify the financial crimes of the 
individuals running the syndicate. He says the fraudsters managed to move millions of 
pounds through their accounts and the fact Nationwide didnt identify this was criminal 
activity meant it was responsible for him losing his money and is proof Nationwide wasnt 
doing enough to protect him. 
But Mr G only has the right to bring a complaint against Nationwide that stems directly from 
his being a customer of the society. What hes described as his original complaint is about 
his dissatisfaction with Nationwides banking practice and fraud prevention activity as a 
whole and this isnt something we can consider as part of his complaint. This is because our 
service isnt a regulator and doesnt police how businesses generally comply with relevant 
regulation and legislation. Our role is to consider individual complaints.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr G feels Nationwide shouldve done more to protect him 
from fraud. And I have considered whether or not, in Mr Gs particular case, Nationwide has 
acted as I would expect.
Should Nationwide have intervened when Mr G made the payment?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr G made were authorised payments. He made the 
payments himself under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of his account, and so Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Having reviewed Mr Gs account statements for the six months leading up to the payment in 
question Im satisfied the amount he paid to the syndicate was significantly unusual activity 
for him. I say this because it was for considerably more than any other payment hed made 
from the account and was to a new payee. 
And Ive considered the warnings Mr G wouldve been shown when making the payment 
online but I dont think this was enough. I think Nationwide reasonably ought to have stopped 
the payment and contacted Mr G to carry out further checks before processing it.
Would Nationwides intervention have made a difference?
Had Nationwide intervened I think it reasonably ought to have asked Mr G more about the 
payment he was making such as what it was for and who it was to. And I wouldve expected it to use its knowledge of fraud and scams to identify any potential concerns and have given 
Mr G specific warnings and guidance around how to protect himself based on what hed 
said. But had it done this, I dont think its likely it wouldve uncovered a scam or Mr Gs 
answers wouldve given Nationwide reasonable cause to refuse to carry out his transaction.
I say this because at the time he made the payment, the syndicate Mr G was paying into 
wasnt a scam. Or at least it wasnt a scam I wouldve expected Nationwide to be able to 
easily identify or be familiar with.
From what Ive seen, it was a genuine syndicate that had been running for a number of 
years. And it seems it was later revealed that the individuals running it have been 
misappropriating funds and failing in their obligations to members. But this wasnt known 
publicly at the time Mr G was making his payments.
So had the bank questioned him, Mr G likely wouldve been able to provide genuine and 
persuasive answers about the syndicate because as far as anyone knew it was legitimate at 
the time. So I don think Nationwide reasonably ought to have identified any scams to warn 
him about. But even if it had given him more general warnings, I think its unlikely Mr G 
wouldve felt they applied to his situation given his circumstances wouldnt have been similar 
to any of the common scams Nationwide mightve described. 
I understand Mr G feels Nationwide shouldve been doing more to monitor the accounts of 
the individuals that he paid the money to. But the account Mr G was making the payment to 
was with another bank and Nationwide has no way of monitoring an account with another 
bank. And as Ive already explained, our service cant investigate a complaint about 
Nationwides general fraud prevention activity across all its accounts, only its actions in 
relation to Mr Gs account. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr G. I can see this mustve been difficult for him. 
But when he made the payments he did, the syndicate he was paying into was legitimate as 
far as anyone knew. So I dont think theres anything Nationwide reasonably ought to have 
uncovered or warned him of that wouldve likely exposed any crime that mightve been 
taking place in the background.
Should Nationwide have done more to retrieve the funds?
As soon as Mr G notified Nationwide about the fraud it contacted the receiving bank to try 
and recover the funds. By this time it seems the recipient of the funds had declared 
bankruptcy. The receiving bank told Nationwide it was seeking advice before it would be 
able to respond to its requests and ultimately hasnt been able to return any funds. 
Its unfortunate Nationwides contact with the receiving bank didnt result in a return of Mr Gs 
money. But Im satisfied Nationwide did everything I wouldve expected it to in the 
circumstances. Overall, and for the reasons set out above, I cant fairly tell Nationwide to 
refund the money Mr G lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman