DRN-4230378
The complaint
Mr M complains a branch counter cheque for £1,000 he was issued by Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) has been lost, and it has failed to investigate his complaint properly.
What happened
Mr M says in 2021 he withdrew £1,000 from his Nationwide account by way of a counter 
cheque but this has been lost. Mr M says Nationwide havent properly investigated this 
matter and wants Nationwide to refund this sum to his account. 
Nationwide says it has carried out a full investigation of Mr Ms account but could find no 
evidence of a £1,000 counter cheque withdrawal. Nationwide says it has seen other counter 
cheque withdrawals since 2021 but these are all fully accounted for. Nationwide says it has 
asked Mr M for any evidence he might have regarding the £1,000 withdrawal, at which point 
it would investigate the matter further. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says although he asked for specific dates relating to the £1,000 counter cheque 
withdrawal from Mr M, this hadnt been forthcoming. The investigator says Nationwide had 
checked Mr Ms account back to the beginning of January 2021 and there wasnt any £1,000 
withdrawals made, as Mr M claims. The investigator noted there had been other counter 
cheque withdrawals made by Mr M, but these were for different sums and had all been re-
deposited back into his account with Nationwide. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be worrying for Mr M to believe a counter cheque for £1,000 had 
gone missing. When looking at this complaint I will consider if there is any evidence to 
suggest such a counter cheque had been issued by Nationwide and if it had carried out 
sufficient checks to investigate the matter.
Mr Ms complaint centres around the fact at some time in 2021 he requested a counter 
cheque from Nationwide which was debited to his account with them, but the cheque was 
misplaced, and Mr M wants this sum credited back to his account. Mr M also feels 
Nationwide havent sufficiently investigated the matter. 
While I understand the points Mr M has raised here, like the investigator I cant see Mr M 
has provided any evidence to support his claim that a £1,000 withdrawal by way of counter 
cheque was made from his account with Nationwide since early 2021. This service has been 
provided with copies of statements covering the period in question but again theres nothing 
to indicate a £1,000 counter cheque withdrawal.
I can see Nationwide have carried out a thorough investigation of Mr Ms account with them, 
in fact Nationwide have searched its records and Mr Ms statements going back to January 
2017 and can find no evidence for the £1,000 counter cheque withdrawal Mr M refers. As 
explained by the investigator Nationwide have advised this service that other counter 
cheques had been issued in the past for different amounts, but these have all been 
accounted for.
So, while I can see Mr M feels strongly about this matter, without any further evidence from 
him showing the withdrawal of £1,000 from his account during the time period he refers to, I 
am unable to say such a counter cheque for this sum was ever issued by Nationwide or 
debited to his account.
With that in mind Im satisfied Nationwide have carried out a full investigation here, but 
theres no evidence to show a debit to Mr M s account with them for this sum during the 
period he refers to.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman