DRN-2496185
The complaint
Ms T says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms T bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint because:
Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where 
PPI wouldve been offered to Ms T. This shows that she wouldve had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could continue with her application. Eggs 
record of the application data shows that Ms T selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  although I can 
understand why Ms T may no longer remember this.
Ms T says that she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer, and she had some savings. But Egg didnt recommend the policy to Ms T so 
it didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. As Ms T chose 
to take the PPI, I think she wanted to protect her repayments against illness and 
unemployment.
But even if Egg had recommended the policy to Ms T, I dont think it was unsuitable for 
her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Having the policy in 
place wouldve meant Ms T could use her employer benefits and savings to cover other 
expenses if she wasnt working. So I think she wouldve had some use for the policy 
despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Ms T wouldve been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman