DRN-3236426
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined to switch their mortgage to 
interest only payments for six months to allow time for their financial position to improve. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a repayment mortgage with Lloyds. Mr D was furloughed during the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and was then made redundant. Mrs D remained in work. They agreed 
payment deferrals with Lloyds for six months, making some payments during this time. 
When this ended, Mr and Mrs D asked to switch to interest only payments for six months 
while Mr D looked for a new job.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said it doesnt offer a switch to interest only payments to customers in 
financial difficulty. This is because payments would have to be higher when the mortgage 
returns to a repayment basis. It offered a reduced payment arrangement for two months. 
Mrs D says she understands theyd have to make higher payments after being on interest 
only terms for six months  but this was also the case with a reduced payment arrangement. 
And the reduced payment arrangement would mean arrears on their account. Mrs D says 
Mr Ds pension would cover the mortgage (they could withdraw about £100,000 in April/May 
2021). But theyd prefer not to access Mr Ds pension, and expected him to find work before 
then. Mrs D said if theyd known how inflexible Lloyds would be they wouldnt have made 
part payments during the payment deferral. 
Our investigator said Lloyds didnt deal fairly with Mr and Mrs Ds request. He said guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says after payment deferrals end lenders 
should look into tailored support for customers in financial difficulty. This would include 
considering a switch to interest only. Our investigator said Lloyds should pay £150 (in 
additional to the compensation of £110 it had paid) for the upset caused to Mr and Mrs D by 
not doing this.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said after reviewing the matter it didnt agree it would have been right 
to offer a switch to interest only. It explained why it thought a reduced payment arrangement 
was the right approach to help Mr and Mrs D through temporary financial hardship. It said 
rules on mortgage regulation dont require it to offer a switch to interest only, and it wasnt 
appropriate to offer this simply to avoid reporting Mr and Mrs Ds financial position to credit 
reference agencies. It said Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage hasnt fallen into arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D contacted Lloyds in October 2020. Mr and Mrs D had already taken six months of 
payment deferrals. This was the maximum allowed under the guidelines issued by the FCA 
in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs D was worried about meeting their contractual monthly payments in the short term. She 
wanted a solution that didnt mean their account going into arrears. Mrs D said she wanted 
to switch to interest only payments for six months. By that time, Mr D would have access to 
his pension. But they were hoping hed be in work by then.
Lloyds says its policy is not to offer a switch to interest only to customers in financial 
difficulty, as this could ultimately put them in a worse position. 
After the investigator issued his view, Lloyds said it reviewed the matter. It said it still thought 
a reduced payment arrangement was the appropriate support to offer Mr and Mrs D. It said 
rules on mortgage regulation dont require it to transfer mortgages to an interest only basis, 
but to consider the appropriateness of this given the customers circumstances. It said it 
could consider an exception to its policy where appropriate. For instance, if theres an 
appropriate repayment vehicle or a confirmed increase in income which would support a 
return to a repayment basis. Lloyds also said that reporting arrears and payment 
arrangements to credit reference agencies ensures potential lenders are aware of 
customers circumstances.
I understand the points made by Lloyds. But I dont agree that it dealt fairly with Mr and 
Mrs Ds request. 
Lloyds asked this service for information about Mr and Mrs Ds repayment vehicle, their long-
term work plans and what monthly payments would be affordable so it could review the 
matter. I think these are the types of questions Lloyds should have asked Mr and Mrs D in 
October 2020.
What Lloyds did know in October 2020, was that Mrs D was still in work and earning about 
£35,000. Mr D had recently been made redundant, and he wasnt expecting a large 
redundancy package. Mr D was looking for work. Mrs D told Lloyds they could access Mr Ds 
pension (about £100,000 cash) in April/May 2021 which could be used as a repayment 
vehicle. This was about the same amount as the outstanding mortgage balance. She said 
they preferred not to access the pension for tax reasons, and were hoping Mr D would be in 
work by then.
Mr and Mrs Ds account didnt fall into arrears. They say they made lifestyle changes to 
prioritise their mortgage payments. Mr D found work within three months. Lloyds says this 
suggests Mr and Mrs D werent in real financial difficulty as they had options, such as to use 
Mr Ds pension or reduce their outgoings. Its good news that Mr and Mrs Ds financial 
circumstances didnt deteriorate, and in fact improved within a short period. But this doesnt 
mean that Lloyds treated them fairly in October 2020. 
The FCA issued guidance in response to the pandemic, and updated the guidance several 
times. The FCA said lenders should be flexible and employ a full range of short and long-
term forbearance options to support customers and minimise avoidable financial distress 
and anxiety to customers in financial difficulty. Lenders should support customers through a 
period of payment difficulties and uncertainty. Lenders had to consider customers individual 
circumstances. They had to offer appropriate forbearance to enable customers to avoid, 
reduce or manage any payment shortfall that would otherwise arise, including the range of 
forbearance tools set out in rules on mortgage regulation. Lloyds had to treat Mr and Mrs D 
fairly. I dont think Lloyds did that when it applied a blanket policy to Mr and Mrs Ds 
request without fairly considering whether an exception was appropriate.
Lloyds might have needed to ask Mr and Mrs D for more information, but what Mrs D told it about their circumstances suggested there were options to explore. The FCA guidance 
required Lloyds to be flexible and consider all forbearance options  including a switch to 
interest only payments. Lloyds says it can make exceptions to its policy not to switch 
customers in financial difficulty to interest only in certain circumstances. I dont think it fairly 
considered whether it would be appropriate to do so here. 
I dont know what the outcome would have been if Lloyds had considered Mr and Mrs Ds 
request fairly. It might still have decided that a reduced payment arrangement was the most 
appropriate support to offer. Lloyds also made the point that Mr and Mrs D maintained their 
monthly payments, and this means theyre in a better position than if theyd made interest 
only payments. I agree that its unlikely Lloyds failure to consider Mr and Mrs Ds request 
fairly has caused them financial loss.
But I think it did cause upset and worry to Mr and Mrs D and its right for Lloyds to pay 
compensation for this. Mr and Mrs D wanted to manage their financial affairs during a period 
of uncertainty and short-term financial difficulties to minimise the effect on their long-term 
financial position. Its understandable that they wanted to protect Mr Ds pension and their 
credit score if they could. Mr and Mrs D asked Lloyds for support, and I think it caused 
unnecessary upset when it didnt consider their request fairly. In the circumstances, I think 
its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to pay £150 compensation for this. This is in 
addition to the £111 it paid for poor service. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay £150 to Mr and 
Mrs D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman