DRN-2914595
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) managed his account since it was 
purchased by them, including that Arrow recorded a default on his credit file.   
What happened
Mr R held a credit account with a third-party which fell into arrears. In September 2019, Mr 
Rs account was sold to Arrow by the third-party.
Arrow contacted Mr R to arrange a payment plan on the account, but Mr R declined to make 
payment to Arrow and advised that he wanted to continue making payments to the original 
company from whom the account had been purchased. Because Mr R made no payments 
towards the account, Arrow eventually defaulted Mr Rs account in March 2021.
Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint. Arrow looked at Mr Rs complaint. 
But they felt that they had followed the correct processes, both in regard to the account 
being sold to them and their subsequent management of the account, including their 
requests for payment from Mr R. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. They also felt that the account had been legitimately 
sold to Arrow and that Arrow hadnt treated Mr R unfairly in how it had requested payments 
toward the account from Mr R, or in how Arrow had ultimately defaulted the account. 
However, our investigator did feel that Arrow had defaulted the account later than should 
reasonably have been expected. So, they recommended that Arrow amend the date of 
default to April 2020  the date by which Mr R was six months in arrears with them  so that 
Mr R wont be disadvantaged by the default remaining on his credit file longer than ought 
reasonably be the case.
Arrow didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
essentially the same reasons. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions for the account that Mr R held with the original 
account provider, Im satisfied that a sale of the account to Arrow was permitted by those 
terms and conditions.
Furthermore, having reviewed the Notice of Assignment letters sent to Mr R by the original 
account provider and Arrow, Im satisfied that Mr R was informed of the sale of the account 
to Arrow and that any future payments towards the account needed to be paid by Mr R to 
Arrow.
As such, while I appreciate that Mr R might have wanted to continue to make payments to 
the original company with whom he opened the account, this wasnt a choice he was open to 
make in this instance. And because of this, I cant conclude that it was unreasonable or 
unfair for Arrow to have recorded a default on Mr Rs credit file on the basis on continued 
non-payment, given that the account had been sold to Arrow and Mr R informed as such.
However, I do echo the position expressed by our investigator regarding the timing of the 
default reported to the credit reference agencies by Arrow. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) sets out how arrears and defaults should be
reported to credit reference agencies. In general, an account may be defaulted if it is three
months in arrears and normally by the time the account reaches six months in arrears. 
However, in this instance, Arrow didnt report a default on Mr Rs credit file until 
approximately 17 months after he first fell into arrears with them. 
This doesnt feel fair to me, and I say this because the consequence to Mr R of the default 
being reported to his credit file eleven months later than would be reasonably expected is 
that the default will remain visible on Mr Rs credit file for eleven months later than would be 
reasonably expected, given the circumstances.
As such, I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Rs favour on this basis only and instructing 
Arrow to amend the date of the default to April 2020  the date by which Mr R was six 
months in arrears with them.
I hope that both Mr R and Arrow can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Arrow must amend the date or default on Mr Rs credit file to April 2020.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Arrow Global Limited on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman