DRN-4290641
The complaint
Mr D complained that The Co-operative Bank plc hadnt refunded him for transactions to a 
betting firm, which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
In the evening of 13 April 20223, Mr D rang The Co-op to report that hed lost his card. He 
said his basic bank account showed seven transactions to a betting firm, totalling £120, 
which he said he hadnt authorised. The Co-op stopped his card and issued a replacement.
The Co-op noted on Mr Ds account that a refund for the fraudulent transactions had been 
issued. So when Mr D rang again, he was told this had happened, but in fact it hadnt yet 
been done. The £120 refund did credit Mr Ds account on 19 April. 
From 16 April onwards, Mr D sent multiple messages of complaint. He said that when hed 
phoned to report the fraud, the adviser had had a bad attitude. He said it had taken him 6 
hours to get through and hed been hung up on 6 times. He wanted compensation.
The Co-ops final response to Mr Ds complaint, on 22 April, said that it had credited Mr Ds 
account on 19 April. It also paid Mr D £30 for the cost and time hed spent on the phone 
trying to resolve the complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and contacted this service about the £120 of transactions. He said he 
couldnt pay bills, and wanted a refund and compensation for the distress.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said The Co-op had refunded Mr D in full 
for the £120 of disputed transactions on 19 April, six days after Mr D reported them. And The 
Co-op had also paid Mr D £30 after it incorrectly told him the money had already been 
refunded, when in fact it was still being progressed. The investigator told Mr D that was a fair 
and reasonable figure and he didnt recommend that The Co-op should pay Mr D any more.
Mr D and the investigator exchanged further emails. In summary, Mr D said that there had 
been two subsequent occasions when there had been multiple betting transactions which he 
said he hadnt authorised. He said The Co-op had issued cards which he hadnt received, 
and he said The Co-op wasnt keeping his money safe by preventing transactions. He said 
that each time it happened, hed gone six or seven days without hundreds of pounds which 
he needed for daily living.
Our investigator explained that we could only consider the seven transactions totalling £120 
which Mr D had complained about to The Co-op, and had then brought to us. If he wanted to 
complain about further transactions, hed have to complain to The Co-op first. Mr D didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are rules which set out what this service can and cant consider, and consumers need 
to give the financial business a chance to sort things out before bringing a complaint to us. 
When Mr D completed the complaint form to us, he said his complaint was about £120 of 
disputed transactions over three days. Those transactions are the ones covered in The Co-
ops final response to Mr D on 22 April. I understand there were further betting transactions 
after then, but they cant form part of this complaint. So this decision relates only to the 
seven transactions from 11 to 13 April 2023 which totalled £120.
The Co-op refunded those seven betting transactions to Mr Ds account on 19 April. This 
was six days after he reported them, which I find was reasonable. 
I recognise that on one of the occasions when Mr D contacted The Co-op, it wrongly told him 
that it had already credited his account when it hadnt. But The Co-op paid Mr D £30 for the 
inconvenience of this incorrect information and for his time and costs in reporting the 
problem.
I note that when Mr D complained to The Co-op, he said that the original call handler had 
had a bad attitude; that hed been hung up on 6 times; and that it had taken him 6 hours to 
get through. But the transcript of Mr Ds first call on 13 April doesnt mention any of these. Id 
have expected that he would have raised these points then.
Mr D also said in his complaint form to us that hed lost over £150 in late fees because of 
this. But Ive seen no evidence that any charges were made to Mr Ds account, even though 
the betting payments sent it into unauthorised overdraft.
In considering compensation, we're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and 
its not unusual to experience a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when 
dealing with financial businesses. But for us to make an award wed need to see that the 
impact of a business's mistake was more than what someone would expect to experience in 
everyday life. I find that the £30 which The Co-op paid Mr D was fair and reasonable for its 
error in telling Mr D the money had been refunded when it hadnt yet been processed, and 
any time and cost problems. I consider that The Co-op doesnt have to pay any further 
compensation for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman