DRN-1361359
 
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs S, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to remind 
the estate that an investment it held until it contacted the executors in 2019.
What happened
This complaint has been made by the executors of the estate of Mrs S but one of the 
executors, Mrs M, has dealt with matters on behalf of the estate.
Mrs S died on 2 January 2015 and Mrs M sent a copy of the death certificate to Woolwich 
Plan Managers (now Barclays) with whom Mrs S held an ISA. It responded on 10 February 
2015 with a valuation for the ISA and explaining what Mrs M needed to do to get funds 
released  namely provide a sealed Grant of Probate (GOP) and a completed Executors 
Instruction Form.
Mrs M provided the GOP in August 2015 at which point the cash in Mrs Ss bank account 
was sent to the estate. The Executors Instruction Form wasnt returned and so nothing 
further happened with regard to the ISA at that time. Barclays then wrote to the executors in 
March 2019 saying it had carried out a review and identified that there were sums due to Mrs 
Ss estate.
Mrs M then complained that Barclays hadnt contacted the executors in the previous four 
years since she had first contacted it on behalf of the estate. She said the investment had 
lost value over that time and the estate had missed out on investment opportunities.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Barclays had provided the correct information to Mrs H in 2015. She said there was 
no obligation on it to chase for return of the executors instruction form and the responsibility 
for providing this remained with the estate.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She said Barclays had an obligation to either 
transfer the shares or dispose of them when it received the death certificate and GOP. She 
said it was clear she had overlooked the initial letter form Barclays and it shouldve issued a 
reminder to fulfil its obligations. And it apologised for the delay so should be responsible for 
the loss arising from it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I ma not going to uphold 
this complaint for reasons I will explain.
In its letter of 10 February 2015 to Mrs M Barclays gave a valuation for the investment held 
and stated that to release any proceeds it needed sight of a sealed GOP. In the following 
paragraph it stated that for the investment plan to be sold or transferred the enclosed Executors Instruction Form should be signed and completed by all executors and returned 
together with the appropriate legal documents.
Mrs M acknowledges that she received the letter and form but, because there was delay in 
obtaining the GOP, other accounts to deal with and this was overall a distressing time, this 
was missed. 
I acknowledge what she has said and accept this must have been a difficult time for her and 
the other executors. It would no doubt have been helpful if Barclays had chased her up to 
find out what it should do with the investment, and something she might have expected it to 
do where it has already been contacted about the investment and provided a valuation. 
But ultimately the responsibility for gathering in and dealing with the assets of the estate 
remains with the executors. Having been made aware of the investment and its value it was 
for them to instruct Barclays what they wanted done with it. So it is clear Barclays didnt have 
any obligation to sell or transfer the shares and it had no authority to do so without any 
instruction from the executors.
I understand how returning the form might have been missed by the executors, but Barclays 
isnt responsible for that. I cannot reasonably find that Barclays shouldve chased for a 
response sooner when the executors themselves took no action with regard to the 
investment over the same four year period.
I acknowledge that the letter of March 2019 apologised for the delay in making the executors 
aware there were assets due to be paid from Mrs Ss account.  Firstly the executors had 
already been made aware of this in its letter of 10 February 2015. Secondly this apology 
does not mean Barclays is then responsible for any loss resulting from delay in the 
investment being sold. As I have already explained, it was for the executors to instruct 
Barclays what they wanted to happen.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
the estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman