DRN-4383992
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled 
and settled their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. 
They made a cancellation claim due to illness which Aviva accepted and paid. But Mr and 
Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva didnt cover all the costs they claimed including costs of 
vaccinations, medication, trip extension, a guidebook and insect repellent. They complained 
to Aviva and unhappy with its response, referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had incorrectly or unfairly 
settled the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Costs which cant be claimed elsewhere and related to the specific trip are covered 
under the policy  this includes the vaccinations and medication which were 
purchased specifically for the cancelled trip, and cannot be recovered elsewhere 
It was a medical necessity under the policy terms to have the vaccinations and 
medication in order to be covered
Trip extension is a specific cost of the holiday
Aviva didnt handle the claim fairly and caused Mrs B to spend unnecessary time on 
the claim
It should have applied the fair and reasonable test and considered each expense on 
its merit 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Under the cancellation section of the policy, it says the following is covered due to 
illness: If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay 
for the following: unrecoverable costs that each insured person has paid or legally 
has to pay for their own unused personal travel and accommodation (including pre-
paid excursions and green fees); and/or Additional travel costs (if you cannot use 
your return ticket), and/or accommodation costs (of a similar standard you had 
booked for your trip) necessary to allow you to come home early. We will only 
consider claims for your costs which are unrecoverable from your travel and/or 
accommodation provider or agent, your debit/credit card company, PayPal, ABTA, 
ATOL (or similar organisation). 
Under general exclusions, the policy does not cover: Any loss that is not specifically 
described in the stated terms and conditions, e.g. we will not pay for loss of earning if 
you are unable to return to work due to illness or injury during your trip, or any 
payment which you would normally have made during your travels.
Aviva covered flight and visa costs. But it said the trip extension, medication, 
vaccinations, insect repellent and guidebook werent covered. 
Having carefully considered the terms, I dont think Aviva incorrectly settled the claim. 
The terms clearly explain personal travel and accommodation costs are covered. Ive 
carefully considered Mr and Mrs Bs comments and whilst I wont address every point 
they have made, I will focus on what I consider to be key to my decision. 
The trip extension had to be purchased in order for Mr and Mrs B to be covered for 
their trip. Without this, they would have been uninsured. They were able to make a 
claim on the basis of having valid insurance. And so I dont think this was an unused 
cost.
The medication and vaccinations are not specific travel costs but Mr and Mrs B 
needed to have them, to have valid insurance. Additionally, these costs are not 
specified in the policy and so the general exclusion applies. Insect repellent and the 
guidebook are also not travel costs and also not specified as covered under the 
policy. 
So overall, I dont think Avivas position is unfair or unreasonable as the additional 
costs Mr and Mrs B are claiming are not specifically travel costs. The policy does not 
cover all costs or all out of pocket expenses in the event of cancellation. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the way Aviva dealt with the claim and 
specifically that Mrs B had to spend time dealing with the claim. Having considered 
the time it took Aviva to settle the claim, I dont think it was unreasonable. Mrs B sent 
her completed forms to Aviva on 23 January 2023 and Aviva paid the claim on 8 
February 2023. This was just over two weeks which I dont think was an excessive 
amount of time.
Mrs B did email Aviva as she was unhappy about the settlement and I can see that 
Aviva responded but maintained its position. It did however apologise for copying and 
pasting an email which it accepted wasnt helpful. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything further. Overall, I think Aviva handled the claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman