DRN-1782528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment
protection insurance (PPI). And they are unhappy with how the bank has handled their 
complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments in 1993. They 
recall the sale took place at a meeting in one of the banks branches. The bank cant confirm 
this but agrees to the complaint being reviewed on that basis. The cover was in Mr Hs sole 
name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly 
amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs H said it seems we have made 
assumptions rather than rely on facts and clear evidence. In cases where some of the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to reach a decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do 
have and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. As an independent and 
impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumers or banks - theres no 
benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say they were told taking out PPI would help with the smooth processing of 
their mortgage application, and that it was in their interest to have it. But Halifax has supplied 
records showing the policy didnt start at the same time as their mortgage - which was in 
August 1987. And it says its more likely than not that the optional nature of the policy was 
verbally explained in good time before the sale was concluded.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax isnt able to provide the documents to
show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs H. But the sale was over 25 years ago, so 
this isnt surprising or unreasonable. In cases like these where there is limited information, I 
have to decide what I think is most likely. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs 
H said but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might 
affect what they recall. As their mortgage had been in place for a number of years when they 
took out the PPI I think they would have known it was a separate, optional product. Overall, 
without stronger evidence to show Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr 
and Mrs H didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Its most likely Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for Mr H. I know they feel strongly Mr H didnt need it, but based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances, I think that it was suitable. Mr H was entitled to at least six 
months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months for 
each successful claim. It also offered up to 12 months unemployment cover. Mr H told us 
they had savings worth around six months salary, but the PPI would have allowed them to 
use these to cover other living expenses whilst Mr H wasnt working, or to keep them intact 
for their future needs. Mr H said their parents would have helped out, but thats not suitable 
alternative protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. 
Mr and Mrs H had borrowed a large sum of money over a long period, secured on their 
home. And the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. 
So, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if Mr H was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced 
for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable. Its also not clear that the bank
pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. However Mr H doesnt appear to have
been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the
policy wouldve changed their mind about buying PPI for Mr H.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But 
Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
the complaint handling
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with how Halifax has managed their claim. As they know the 
adjudicator raised this with the bank and she shared its response with them. But they say the 
bank has been dishonest in this response. 
I know this will be frustrating and disappointing for them, but I cant investigate this further for 
them. In the circumstances of this complaint I couldnt instruct the bank to do anything with 
regards the way the complaint was managed. This is because I can only act within the rules 
that govern this service and these only give me the power to review complaints about a 
financial service. 
 
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman