DRN-2853962
The complaint
Mr Ws representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC, referred to as 
Barclays.  
In summary, the CMC says:
Mr W had no previous investment experience. He was unfamiliar with the investment.
The investment carried too much risk. 
The adviser failed to asses Mr Ws circumstances
What happened
In April 1999, Mr W invested £5,280 into a Market Track Personal Equity Plan (PEP) 
marketed under Barclays B2 brand name. In August 2004, he surrendered the PEP and 
received £4,253, which amounted to a loss of around 19.45%.  
Barclays initially raised an objection to us considering the merits of this complaint. It later 
consented but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that the PEP was bought on a 
non-advised basis. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Notwithstanding any discussions that may have taken place, hes unable to say that 
this was an advised sale. 
In a non-advised sale, Barclays would still need to provide clear, fair, non-misleading 
information about products to enable the customer to make an informed choice. 
Despite what the CMC says, hes not persuaded that this amounted to advice. 
If advice had been given, even though the event was 20 years ago, there wouldve 
been some evidence of this, but there isnt. 
Mr W couldve discussed matters further with Barclays over the phone, but he didnt, 
which further suggests that he made up his own mind about what was best for him.  
The evidence suggests that Mr W applied for the investment and did so because he 
wanted to. 
Barclays isnt responsible for any losses Mr W may have suffered. 
Barclays (unconditionally) offered Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays in responding to his complaint. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Theres been some confusion about the information possessed by Mr W and itself. 
Its aware that the product was designed to be sold on a non-advised basis. 
However, Mr W thought he was receiving financial advice.
Previous complaints at the ombudsman service have held that despite the way a 
product was designed, it wasnt sold in the correct way. In other words, advice had 
been provided to sell a non-advised product. 
From what Mr W recalls, its clear that significant details were discussed about his 
financial circumstances. The application form shows that it was completed by the 
adviser, with an x placed by the declaration that Mr W needed to sign. 
Mr W was an HGV driver and a first-time investor, he shouldnt have been sold an 
investment with so much risk.   
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, 
Im unable to safely conclude that this was an advised sale.  
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mr W wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that the policy was 
taken out on a direct basis. In other words, it was sold without financial advice.
I think its likely Mr W bought the investment of his own volition, by filling out an application 
form and as a result, Im unable to consider the suitability of it. Whether or not he was an 
HGV driver with no investment experience at the time, I believe the onus was on him to 
make sure it was suitable for his circumstances. Even if the product carried too much risk, I 
cant safely conclude that Barclays was responsible for this. 
I appreciate what Mr W says about what happened at the point of sale. Despite what Mr W 
now says about what happened some 20 years ago, I think its likely that his recollection of 
what happened wouldve been clearer at the time than it is now. And given the passage of 
time, I think its likely that his recollection will differ from what actually happened. 
In the circumstances, I also have to consider the documentary evidence available from the 
point of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied the policy documentation supplied before Mr W 
applied for the PEP wouldve been clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr W might now feel that the adviser shouldve made clear to him the level of risk. But 
because this was likely to be a non-advised sale, Im not persuaded that Barclays was 
required to advise him.  On balance, Im unable to safely say that Mr W was entitled to think that he received 
financial advice. But if he did, in this instance I cant blame Barclays for this. It seems that 
Barclays offered help with filling out the form and asked  as per the note on page one of the 
application form  that only after reading the terms and conditions that it be handed to the 
applicants personal banker. In my opinion, this, or any assistance filling out the form doesnt 
constitute advice. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W was given any advice explaining 
why the PEP would meet his demands and/or needs. 
I note that it was Mr Ws responsibility to read the terms and conditions before signing and 
submitting the form. If he didnt, in the circumstances, I cant blame Barclays for this.  
I appreciate what the CMC says about previous cases, but it will be aware that I am not 
bound by the decisions of other ombudsmen. Every case is considered on its own merits 
and no two cases are the same. Even the smallest factual difference can make all the 
difference in outcome.
In this instance, a lack of the necessary documents persuades me that this probably wasnt 
an advised sale. It certainly doesnt allow me to conclude that this was an advised sale. I 
note that Barclays says that it spoke to Mr W who accepted that this was a non-advised sale 
and that he raised a complaint about a different product. Notwithstanding this, I understand 
the CMC made clear that Mr W would still like our service to consider this complaint. 
Having taken all the factors into consideration, on balance Im unable to safely conclude that 
this was an advised sale and therefore I dont uphold this complaint. Whilst I appreciate Mr 
Ws frustration, Im unable to require Barclays to do anything because I dont think it has mis-
sold the policy. 
I appreciate Mr W will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman