DRN-3087617
The complaint
Mr G complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) for the way it handled his
claim for a leak at his home. He wants Inter Partner to clarify its literature and to pay him
compensation for the damage to his roof which occurred as a consequence of the leak.  
What happened
Mr G had home insurance with company A. This policy included buildings insurance,
underwritten by A, and Mr G had also purchased optional Home Assistance cover, which
was underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner).
On 21 August 2020, Mr G noticed a wet patch appearing on his living room ceiling, which
was beneath the bathroom. He contacted Inter Partner immediately and logged a claim
under his Home Assistance cover.
Inter Partner advised it would send out an engineer. Inter Partner then sent a work request
to Engineer 1.
Engineer 1 declined the work as it was not able to respond promptly. But Inter Partner did
not receive notice of this decline. No engineer attended Mr Gs home.
Mr G chased Inter Partner. He was advised that Engineer 2 would be sent out to his home
the following day.
Engineer 2 then did not attend on 23 August and on 24 August Engineer 2 contacted Mr G to
advise that he had been given incorrect address details and that Mr G would need a new
appointment.
Mr G contacted Inter Partner and requested a new appointment. Inter Partner sent Engineer
2 again.
Engineer 2 attended Mr Gs property and diagnosed that there was a loose waste trap on the
bath. He told Mr G he was not authorised to carry out a repair and that Mr G would need to
engage a plumber to carry out the repair.
Mr G engaged a plumber who attended and replaced the bath waste trap, at a cost to Mr G
of £70.
This did not resolve the leak and Mr G contacted Inter Partner again. He was advised that
Engineer 2 could come back, but that Engineer 2 would be limited to isolating the water
supply as Mr G had an alternative bathroom, and so it was no longer an emergency.
Engineer 2 eventually attended and diagnosed that there was a leak from the hot water feed
pipe. He attempted to isolate that pipe but then advised that he was unable to do more, and
that Mr G should engage a private plumber to fix the leak.
Mr G then engaged a plumber who attended and fixed the feed pipe leak on 2 September
2020 at a cost of £110.
Mr G submitted a complaint. He considered that Inter Partner had provided a poor customer
service and the delay had led to the leak getting worse and so had required more extensive
repair works. He thought that Inter Partner ought to reimburse him for the costs of the
plumbers he engaged, the cost of a fire alarm which was damaged by the leak, and the cost
of repairs to his ceiling.
Inter Partner sent him its final response in March 2021. Inter Partner partially upheld Mr Gs
complaint in relation to delays and the time spent on calls, but declined to cover the damage
to his ceiling. It noted that some damage had occurred when he first called and so a level of
damage had already been caused before Inter Partner had delayed in responding. Inter
Partner also advised that Mr Gs cover did not include trace or access, so its engineers were
only able to base their diagnosis from what they could see. Inter Partner offered Mr G £350
compensation to reflect the delays and £145 to reimburse him for the costs of the bath waste
trap and damaged fire alarm.
Mr G was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They considered that Inter Partner had provided
poor customer service and had delayed in responding to the claim, but that the policy did set
out that trace and access was not covered, and the offer that Inter Partner had made was in
line with awards we would make in similar circumstances. He therefore did not recommend
that Inter Partner do anything further.
Mr G did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He set out that he did
not want to use his buildings insurance to claim for the ceiling cost due to a large excess and
he felt that the information in the policy documentation was confusing and unclear.  
I set out my preliminary view in a provisional decision issued in September 2021. I explained 
that I thought that, in this case, the home emergency cover had exacerbated the damage 
sustained to Mr Gs home. 
The leak, which ought to have been identified and stopped promptly in order to minimise 
damage to his home, was allowed to continue for more than 10 days before it was ultimately 
stopped by a third party, engaged by Mr G. 
I explained that I considered that there had been a number of mistakes by Inter Partner, 
which led to delays responding to Mr G, and that the contractors sent out wrongly refused to 
make repairs to the leak, instead requiring Mr G to engage his own contractors. I considered 
that Inter Partners engineers should have investigated the leak more thoroughly as no 
tracing or access was required, and it was not clear why repairs would be excluded. I 
therefore thought that the complaint should be upheld, and Inter Partner should compensate 
Mr G for the losses and damage he incurred.
My provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr G has responded, indicating that he accepts the provisional decision. 
Inter Partner has responded, disputing the provisional decision. Inter Partner argues that the 
buildings insurance is in place to cover consequential loss as a result of the home 
emergency, and that Mr G would have always had to pay for a buildings excess. Inter 
Partner offers to increase its compensation for distress and inconvenience to £500 but states 
that it should not be required to pay for the damage costs. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Inter Partners argument, that buildings insurance is in place to cover 
consequential damage, and that the home emergency cover would not usually extend to 
this. Inter Partner says that it would only look to compensate for the delays. 
In this case, however, the delays have had a substantial impact, both upon the extent of the 
damage which occurred to Mr Gs home, and upon Mr Gs choice as to whether or not to 
make a claim on his buildings insurance. 
As previously set out, the excess on Mr Gs buildings insurance policy for escape of water is 
£500. The damage to Mr Gs ceiling will cost £650 to repair. 
Mr G has provided photographs of the damage to his ceiling after more than 10 days of the 
leak persisting and I have no doubt that this damage was far more extensive than when it 
first manifested. The repair quote details that flaking paint will be removed and a stain stop 
paint will be applied to the affected areas, before two further coats of decorative paint are 
applied. 
I am satisfied that if the leak had been stopped promptly the repair required would have 
been a substantially smaller area and therefore been a cheaper repair. 
If the damage had been properly mitigated, Mr G would have faced a smaller bill for repair or 
he may even have decided that it was not necessary to repair the ceiling. I think it highly 
unlikely that he would have made a claim under his buildings insurance in such 
circumstances given that the repair would likely have entirely fallen within his excess. 
He was not, however, able to make that decision because Inter Partners delays, and wrong 
advice when engineers did attend, meant that the ultimate damage was much greater than it 
would otherwise have been.
I therefore remain of the view that Inter Partner ought to bear the costs of repairs to the 
ceiling, because these flowed from their delays. 
Neither party has made any comments in relation to the other provisional directions I made. 
Consequently, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision and adopt that 
decision and reasons, as supplemented by this decision, as my final decision.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and 
direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Reimburse Mr G a total of £180 for his contractor costs;
Reimburse Mr G for repairs to his ceiling;
Reimburse Mr G £75 for his damaged fire alarm; and
Pay to Mr G £350 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman