DRN-4273149
The complaint
Mr D complains that West Bay Insurance Plc cancelled his motor insurance policy, resulting 
in his car being impounded by the police. 
West Bay is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As West Bay has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to West Bay includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr D notified West Bay that his address had changed. West Bay updated the 
details on his policy and informed Mr D that his premium had increased. Mr D asked for his 
address to be changed back to the previous one. He was unhappy that this didnt result in a 
decrease in his premium. After he raised a complaint about this, West Bay waived the 
additional charge.
On 6 September 2022, West Bay sent Mr D a letter asking him for a recent utility bill or bank 
statement from the last three months so it could validate his policy. The letter said that if 
West Bay didnt receive a reply within 14 days Mr Ds policy might be cancelled.
West Bay didnt receive a response. So, on 28 September 2022, West Bay sent another 
letter saying it was unable to continue to offer Mr D motor insurance as he currently had no 
fixed abode. It said his policy would be cancelled from midnight of 7 October 2022.
Mr D says he didnt receive either of West Bays letters and he wasnt aware the policy had 
been cancelled. A week after the policy was cancelled, Mr Ds vehicle was impounded by the 
police due to him not having insurance.
Mr D raised his concerns with West Bay, who initially didnt uphold his complaint. However, 
after further investigation West Bay acknowledged it hadnt done enough to contact Mr D. It 
said it would send Mr D a letter of indemnity to make sure no points were placed on his 
licence for no insurance. It would also send Mr D a cheque for £520. The letter of indemnity 
was issued the next day.
In early 2023, Mr D was issued with a summons to appear in court in mid-2023. The court 
case was later withdrawn after West Bay made contact with the police and provided the 
indemnity letter it had issued to Mr D in November 2022.
Our investigator recommended West Bay pay Mr D an additional £250 compensation. She 
didnt think West Bay was wrong to cancel the policy. But she didnt think the £250 
compensation West Bay had already paid him was enough to recognise the impact of not 
giving him proper notice of the cancellation.
West Bay accepted our investigators outcome. However, Mr D disagreed. He thought he 
should be reimbursed fuel costs from travelling to and from the town where the court hearing 
was scheduled to take place. He didnt think the additional amount our investigator had 
recommended was sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced as a result of his car being impounded. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The terms of the policy say:
(West Bay) can cancel this policy at any time if there are serious grounds to do so:..
-You have failed to supply requested validation documentation
We will do this by giving you 7 days notice in writing to your last address notified to us. Your 
last notified address may include an email address nominated by you to accept 
correspondence.
According to West Bays notes, in August 2022, Mr D told it he didnt have a permanent 
address. This prompted West Bay to write to him asking for information to validate his policy. 
From what Ive seen, it sent Mr D a letter asking for a recent utility bill or bank statement on 
6 September 2022. A copy of this letter was sent to Mr D by email the following day. 
West Bay sent Mr D another letter on 28 September which said it would cancel his policy on 
7 October 2022. A copy of this letter was also sent by email.
On 11 October 2022, West Bay sent Mr D a letter telling him his policy had been cancelled 
on 7 October.
Mr D says he didnt receive the letters and he wasnt aware that his policy had been 
cancelled. Unfortunately, he was stopped by the police on 14 October 2022 and the car was 
impounded. 
West Bay has sent us screenshots to show that the letters requesting proof of address were 
emailed to Mr D on 7 and 29 September. However, he doesnt appear to have opened the 
emails until 14 October, which is the same day he was stopped by the police. 
I dont think it was unfair for West Bay to have cancelled Mr Ds policy when it didnt receive 
the information it had requested from him within the relevant time frame. Im also satisfied 
that it gave Mr D notice of cancellation, in line with the policys terms.
However, West Bay says the letter of 11 October 2022 telling Mr D that his policy was 
cancelled was only sent by post. Its acknowledged that this should also have been sent by 
email because it was aware Mr D didnt have a fixed address. Its told us this was the reason 
it provided the letter of indemnity, covered the costs of the impound fees and paid Mr D £250 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D says he was summonsed to court despite providing the police with the indemnity letter. 
The court case wasnt withdrawn until West Bay got in contact with the police in June 2023, 
after our investigator made it aware of the court summons. West Bay says theres nothing further it could have done. However, it has accepted our 
investigators recommendation to pay Mr D a further £250 in recognition of the distress he 
experienced as a result of being summonsed to court.
Mr D thinks West Bay should reimburse him his fuel costs from driving to and from the town 
where the court hearing was due to take place. However, our investigator made Mr D aware 
that the court hearing was going to be cancelled around two weeks prior to the date it was 
scheduled for. Mr D confirmed it had been cancelled a couple of days later. So, I dont think 
it would be fair to tell West Bay to reimburse him for any fuel costs he may have incurred 
from travelling to and from that town.
I appreciate Mr D doesnt feel that a total of £500 is enough to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced. I understand that being without insurance has 
caused him some difficulties. However, Ive explained why I dont think it was wrong for West 
Bay to have cancelled the policy.
If West Bay had sent him notification that the policy had been cancelled by email, Mr D might 
not have had his vehicle taken by the police. From what hes told us this seems to have 
been an upsetting and humiliating experience, where he was also subjected to a drug test. 
He also experienced distress and inconvenience from his car being impounded, with further 
upset from being summonsed to court. 
However, I think a total of £500 sufficiently recognises the impact of this on Mr D. So, while I 
appreciate my answer will be disappointing for him, I think a further payment of £250 from 
West Bay is enough to put things right. 
Putting things right
West Bay should pay Mr D £250 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman