DRN-4007202
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as F has complained that QBE UK Limited unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after its business was impacted by Covid-19. F has 
also complained about QBEs handling of the claim.
Mr R, a director of F, has brought the complaint on behalf of F.
QBE is the underwriter of this policy; that is, the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the loss adjuster that QBE appointed to handle the claim. As QBE accepts that it 
is accountable for the actions of the loss adjuster, any reference to QBE in this decision 
includes the actions of the loss adjuster.
What happened
F arranges and runs events. F held a business interruption insurance policy with QBE. 
F claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. F said that several 
events in Europe had been cancelled due to the restrictions imposed by the Government in 
response to Covid-19.
QBE initially declined Fs claim but then told F that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
test case might impact its decision. Following the Supreme Courts judgment in the test case 
in January 2021, QBE told F that it accepted policy liability in principle. F gave QBE the 
financial information it had requested.
In March 2021 F asked QBE for updates. As it didnt receive a response F complained to this 
service in April 2021. The following month QBE contacted F to explain it had been in 
correspondence with Fs insurance broker to assess whether F might have been 
underinsured, and asked F for more financial information which F provided. QBE sent F a 
final response letter upholding its complaint and apologising for its failure to keep F updated 
about the claim. It gave F some information about the enquiries it had been making and said 
it would give F its decision as soon as possible.
There were then various exchanges between QBE and Fs insurance broker. QBE 
expressed concerns to Fs broker about the suitability of its office policy given the nature of 
Fs events business and also about whether F had been under insured for business 
interruption in the light of its previous turnover.
QBE then told Fs broker that it did not accept liability for the claim and asked the broker to 
explain the position to F. QBE said the policy responded to Covid-19 within a 25 mile radius 
of Fs premises. But QBE did not consider that the policy responded to the impact of 
Covid-19 outside the UK territory for two reasons:
The response of various European governments (which would be different in each 
territory) could not be said to be a direct response to Covid-19 within a 25 mile radius 
of Fs premises; and
There is no customer extension to the policy and no disease cover relating to 
anything other than the premises and the radius around the premises. The policy did 
not provide global pandemic cover.
In June 2022 F told QBE that it also wished to pursue a claim for denial of access and denial 
of access (non-damage), following the outcome of a legal case Corbin & King Ltd and others 
v Axa Insurance UK plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin & King).
QBE replied to say that there was no cover under the denial of access section of the policy, 
because this required damage to property in the vicinity of the premises. It said the denial of 
access (non-damage) section of the policy did not cover Fs claim and was not impacted by 
the Corbin & King case. Fs policy responded only to actions of a Police Authority, where 
the clause in Corbin & King referred to actions taken by the police or any other statutory 
body and provided only narrow, localised cover. QBE remained of the view that Fs financial 
losses flowed from cancellation of overseas events.
Unhappy with QBEs response, F brought its complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He set out the background to 
the complaint including QBEs initial concerns about under insurance. Our Investigator 
concluded that QBE had fairly found that the denial of access and denial of access         
(non-damage) clauses of the policy didnt cover Fs claim.
Our Investigator said that there had been no evidence to suggest there had been a case of 
Covid-19 at Fs premises, and he found the interruption was due to the Covid-19 restrictions 
generally. He noted that F had not stopped trading but had been unable to run any events, 
which had been cancelled. He said the Supreme Courts judgment did not impact the claim.
F did not accept the Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
In summary, F made the following points:
The policy provided cover if a notifiable disease was manifested by any person whilst 
in the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. So, the Investigator was wrong to say 
the policy was triggered only by Covid-19 at the premises. Given Fs location and 
local populations, Covid-19 had been manifested within a 25 mile radius and due to 
this Fs business had been interrupted, causing loss. F noted the wording had been 
removed from subsequent policy documents.
The cancellation of the events was a direct result of Government enforced lockdowns 
and travel restrictions. F furloughed its staff, who were not then allowed to work, with 
Directors being able to perform only company related statutory obligations.
F did not cancel events. Rather F and its clients mutually agreed to cancel events 
with little choice due only to Covid-19, which caused Fs losses.
QBE had asked F for additional information about its business and turnover but didnt 
give F an answer to its claim. F complained both to QBE and to this service. QBE 
accepted there had been a delay and apologised.
QBE had moved the goalposts in deciding there was no cover after the event, 
ignoring clear policy wording and it was disconcerting that the Investigator had 
agreed with QBE. The turnover issue had nothing to do with the interruption of the 
business by Covid-19 and if anything favoured the insurer.
The policy is a simple office policy. F has separate events insurance for the 
events with other brokers.
It was wrong for QBE (and our Investigator) to refer to issues not mentioned in the 
policy to avoid paying the claim. Covid-19 interrupted its business, through the 
restrictions imposed by governments, and the loss F suffered is due to that 
interruption.I reviewed the complaint and asked F for some additional information about cases of 
Covid-19 and whether it had made a claim under the separate events insurance that it said 
it had arranged through other brokers.
In response, F sent evidence to support that there had been cases of Covid-19 within a 
25 mile radius of its premises.
F also said that it had public liability insurance for the events and medical insurance for the 
self-employed subcontractors performing at its events. F had not made claims under these 
policies, which did not include business interruption insurance.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I did not intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Fs business. However, I am not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why and 
in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
QBE has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Fs claim.
Denial of access
The policy covers business interruption loss as set out in the policy caused by: 
Damage by any cause not excluded by this policy to property in the vicinity of the 
premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of the premises or access thereto 
whether the premises or your property therein shall be damaged or not (but excluding 
damage to property of any supply undertaking from which you obtain electricity, gas 
or water or telecommunications services which prevents or hinders the supply of 
such services).
The policy defines damage as:
a) loss of destruction of or damage to tangible property caused by any cause not 
otherwise excluded by Property -Contents section and Property  Buildings section;
b) glass breakage;
For this extension to provide cover the interruption to Fs business would need to be due to 
damage, as defined in the policy, to property in the vicinity of the premises that prevented or 
hindered the use of or access to the premises. I have not seen any evidence of loss, 
destruction or damage to tangible property. So this extension does not cover Fs claim.
F has referred to the judgment in Corbin & King, but I dont think the judgment impacts Fs 
claim. Thats because the clause in Fs policy is different from that which was considered by 
the court, and, under denial of access there was a requirement for there to have been 
damage to property in order for the policy to provide cover.
Denial of access (non-damage)
This extension provided business interruption or interference loss caused by:action by the Police Authority following danger or disturbance within two hundred 
and fifty (250) metres of the premises which shall prevent or hinder use of the 
premises or access thereto
The extension above provides cover only where danger or disturbance has led the Police 
Authority to take action. So, it is necessary for me to consider whether the interruption to Fs 
business was as a result of something the Police did.
The term Police Authority is not defined in the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to 
consider what this term is likely to mean in the context of this policy.
I think Police Authority can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday use of this term 
and I think this would be commonly understood. The closure of Fs premises was a 
requirement following the instructions of the government-imposed restrictions, rather than 
any action of the Police.
I appreciate that, had F remained open, or reopened, during the lockdown period its 
premises might have been closed by the Police. But, that is not what did happen. The 
closure of the premises was a requirement following the government-imposed restrictions. F 
obeyed these instructions and closed Fs premises, putting its staff on furlough. So it cannot 
be said Fs premises were closed in by action by the Police.
F has referred again to the judgment in Corbin & King, but I dont think the judgment impacts 
Fs claim. The clause in Fs policy referred only to action by the Police Authority and not 
also to any action by a competent local authority as was the case in Corbin & King.
The disease extension
The relevant section of the Office policy covers interruption of or interference with the 
business as insured by this section caused by:
1. any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by any person 
whilst in the premises or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it;
2. murder, suicide or sexual assault in the premises;
3. bodily injury or illness arising from foreign bodies [etc] in food and drink provided 
on the premises;
4. vermin or pests in the premises;
5. the closing of the whole or part of the premises by order of a competent public 
authority consequence upon defect in the drain or other sanitary arrangements at the 
premises.
The insurance by this clause shall only apply for the period beginning with the occurrence of 
the loss and ending not later than three (3) months thereafter during which the results of the 
business shall be affected in consequence of the damage.
Business is defined as:
The business stated in the schedule including:
the provision and management of canteen sports social or welfare organisations for 
the benefit of employees and fire security first aid medical and ambulance services; 
or senior officials;
the ownership maintenance and repair of the premisesrepair, maintenance and servicing of you mechanically propelled vehicles, sale or 
disposal of your property and goods, including mechanically propelled vehicles;
organisation of and participation in exhibitions, trade fairs, conferences, and the like, 
charitable events or similar fund-raising services
Covid-19 is a human infectious or human contagious disease. So, for this extension to 
provide cover for Fs claim the interruption of or interference with the business would need to 
be as a result of a case of Covid-19 manifesting at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of 
the premises.
F has pointed out that its policy did not require it to show that Covid-19 had been manifested 
by any person at its premises. Rather, F says that it would need to show it is more likely than 
not that Covid-19 had been manifested by any person within a 25 mile radius of Fs 
premises. F has now provided evidence that I accept shows that it is more likely than not 
that a case of Covid-19 had manifested in the geographical location stipulated in the policy.
Indeed, QBE has not disputed that the policy responded to cases of Covid-19 manifesting 
within a 25 mile radius of Fs premises. But QBE has made the point that the loss F has 
claimed is not because a case of Covid-19 manifested within a 25 mile radius of Fs 
premises. Rather, QBE argues that Fs claim for losses flows from the decision taken to 
cancel the European events due to the restrictions introduced by the European clients 
Governments. It appears from Fs most recent submissions that F does not have separate 
events insurance for the cancellation of those events.
So, the issue I need to decide is whether the business interruption losses claimed by F flow 
from the restrictions introduced by the UK Government in response to the cases of Covid-19 
manifesting within 25 miles of Fs premises.
From the contractual information provided by F, I can see that the events were cancelled by 
mutual agreement between F and its European clients for reasons described as:
Both parties have agreed, taken [sic] into account the current situation caused by 
the Corona crisis, by mutual and express consent, to definitively end the [contract].
At a request by [the European client] and the prevailing circumstances surrounding 
the pandemic Covid-19, this summers [contract] is cancelled.
Because of the situation with Covid-19 and the consequence of Covid-19 [the 
European client) hereby cancel the agreement.
By agreement and due to the prevailing circumstances and uncertainty surrounding 
the pandemic Covid-19, the contract between both parties is cancelled.
I have considered the reasons given by F and its European clients for cancelling events. The 
wording included the prevailing circumstances of the pandemic and the uncertainty 
surrounding the pandemic.
From this it seems to me that the restrictions and uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic in 
Europe led to Fs European clients deciding  albeit by mutual agreement with F - not to 
stage the events and to cancel the contracts with F. Fs loss is described in the claim as 
arising directly from the cancellation of the European events.
I have thought about whether Fs loss can fairly be said to flow from restrictions, including 
travel restrictions, introduced by the UK Government in response to Covid-19 manifesting 
within a 25 mile radius of Fs premises where each case of Covid-19 within that radius was 
an equal and concurrent cause of the introduction of those restrictions.But the loss that F has claimed under the office policy flows directly from the cancellation of 
the European events. Ive not seen any evidence from F to persuade me that the 
cancellation of the events, leading to the loss claimed by F was as a result of Covid-19 
manifesting within a 25 mile radius of Fs premises as is required for the policy to respond. 
This is not to say that Fs business was not interrupted, but rather that the loss for which it 
claimed did not flow directly from that interruption.
It follows that I am minded to find that QBE reached a fair decision in the claim and that the 
loss that F has claimed under its policy flows from the cancellation of the European events 
rather than being due to interruption of its business due to cases of Covid-19 manifesting 
within 25 miles of Fs premises.
As such, I consider that QBE fairly turned down Fs claim.
Claim handling
QBE accepted that it had failed to keep F updated in the early stages of its claim 
assessment. It apologised to F for the delay. I think this was reasonable. In the background, 
QBE was gathering information and liaising with Fs broker but it properly acknowledged that 
it should have kept F updated.
F considers the issues about under insurance and the suitability of the policy were not 
relevant to whether the claim was covered under the policy. I see its point but I think QBE 
was entitled to consider these issues in assessing the claim. Our Investigator included this 
information only for background. Ultimately, QBE did not turn down Fs claim due to 
underinsurance or policy suitability but because the policy did not cover the loss for which 
F had claimed.
I have seen that in July 2021 QBE did ask Fs broker to explain to F its decision not to pay 
the claim. This is not unusual in commercial insurance cases.
F says that QBE has removed the disease wording from subsequent policies. But it is 
entitled to review policy wording on renewal and this does not mean that the policy covered 
Fs claim.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to F, but I do not 
intend to uphold its complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
QBE responded to say that it had nothing further to add. 
F responded to say that it did not agree with the findings I had reached in my provisional 
decision. In summary, it said:
It strongly believed that the policy wording in section 11.1.10 (the disease extension 
as set out above) was clear and unambiguous, that it had fulfilled the criteria and so 
its claim should be paid. F considered that I had ignored this despite the clear policy 
wording and had taken a narrow view of the policy. Fs main claim falls under this 
part of the policy, with other aspects such as denial of access having been added 
later. 
It does not consider that my passive wording including that it is more likely than 
not that a case of Covid-19 had manifested should appear in the published decision. 
It was clear there were cases of Covid-19 within the 25 mile radius of its premises 
and my decision should reflect that. I had tried to confuse the situation with disingenuous wording and implying that the 
cancellation was by agreement with Fs clients, and only then going on to give the 
actual pandemic based reasons for the cancellation of the events. 
It beggars belief that I have not upheld the complaint given that I have found that 
Covid-19 was a disease as stated in the policy, that there were cases in the vicinity 
and that the business was interrupted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Fs comments and I am sorry that it considers the wording of my 
provisional decision is not sufficiently clear. But the comments it has made do not change 
my mind about the fair outcome to this complaint and I do not consider I can fairly uphold it.  
I will focus on the disease extension of the policy (section 11.1.10) given that F says that its 
claim should succeed under this policy wording.
The reason that I have used the words more likely than not is because that is the test that 
we are required to consider for establishing that something has happened based on the 
balance of probabilities. It was not intended to be ambiguous or unclear. For the avoidance 
of doubt, F has provided information to show that cases of Covid-19 manifested in the 
25 mile radius of its premises. I accept this and QBE has not disputed this point.
As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Ive noted Fs comments about the cancellation reasons. The evidence is that Fs contracts 
with its European clients were cancelled by mutual agreement because of the pandemic 
based reasons set out in my provisional decision. The loss F has claimed flows from the 
cancellation of the European events.
But Ive not received anything more from F to persuade me that the cancellation of the 
events, leading to the loss claimed by F was as a result of Covid-19 manifesting within a 
25 mile radius of Fs premises as is required for the policy to respond. 
It follows that I find that QBE reached a fair decision in the claim and that the loss that F has 
claimed under its policy flows from the cancellation of the European events rather than being 
due to interruption of its business due to cases of Covid-19 manifesting within 25 miles of 
Fs premises.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision and here, I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman