DRN-3660349
The complaint
Mr R complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) didnt tell him when his card was 
blocked. Hes also unhappy with the time it took for him to receive a replacement PIN, and 
the difficulties he experienced trying to speak with Co-op over the phone.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for 
these reasons:
We dont have the power to interfere with a financial business commercial decision. 
So, we cant tell Co-op how they should notify their customers when their card has 
been blocked. However, we can make a finding on whether Mr R was treated the 
same as other customers with similar circumstances. The evidence persuades me 
Mr R would have seen a message pop up when his online transactions were blocked. 
These messages would have asked him to contact Co-op and quote a reference 
when he did so. This is something other customers with similar circumstances would 
have received. Therefore, I dont consider Mr R was treated unfairly when Co-op 
didnt use other methods to tell him about the block on his card.
Mr R waited over a month to receive a new PIN for his replacement debit card. 
Having reviewed Co-ops system notes, Ive seen a new PIN was requested on four 
occasions between the end of November 2021 and early January 2022. I dont 
disbelieve Mr R when he says he didnt receive his PIN as expected, and 
I understand this would have been frustrating. However, I dont consider it would be 
fair to hold Co-op responsible if there were problems with the post, as that was out of 
their control. Ive noted that Mr R says he didnt experience problems receiving post 
from others. However, the evidence persuades me the PIN numbers were issued. 
Given Co-op didnt receive any returned mail, they wouldnt have known there was a 
problem without Mr R letting them know. But Im glad to see they offered him £30 for 
the inconvenience caused by the delay. I consider this is fair as Mr R was still able to 
use his card for contactless payments.
Mr R is also unhappy with the time it took for him to get through to an adviser when 
he would call Co-op. Co-op explained their waiting times had increased due to 
staffing issues following the pandemic. This isnt unusual given the impact the 
pandemic had on many businesses. However, that doesnt make the situation any 
less frustrating for Mr R. Hes asked for Co-op to audit their customer service 
standards. But as mentioned above, we dont have the power to ask Co-op to do this. 
But I was pleased to see Co-ops final response letter acknowledged the waiting 
times were too long and explained how things were improving.
Contacting a business comes with inevitable inconvenience. However, when chasing 
a new PIN, Mr R frequently asked for someone at Co-op to call him. It was 
disappointing to see this didnt happen for some time, particularly given how long it 
was taking for him to receive the PIN. I appreciate it isnt Co-ops normal policy to call 
customers when their messaging service is used. But they are still expected to treat 
their customers fairly, and that involves a level of pragmatism. I consider Mr Rs 
circumstances warranted that. Co-ops final response acknowledged their customer 
service could have been better; and they offered Mr R £45 in recognition of the 
frustration and inconvenience he experienced. Taking everything into consideration, 
I consider this offer was fair. A total award of £75 is in line with what I would have 
suggested had Co-op not already taken steps to put things right.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr R hoped for. But for the reasons above, I dont consider   
Co-op needs to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman