DRN-3657513
The complaint
Mr L and Mr S complaint is about a mortgage they held with Santander UK Plc. They initially 
complained about the size of the early repayment charge (ERC) they were charged when 
they paid off the mortgage, as they considered it was exorbitant. In addition, as the total 
amount of the ERC wasnt highlighted during the discussions when the mortgage and further 
advance were recommended, or when the changes to the repayment arrangements were 
made in 2020, they consider the mortgage and further advance were mis-sold.
What happened
Mr L and Mr S took out a repayment mortgage with Santander in 2019 for approximately 
£800,000 over a term of 30 years. They attached a five-year fixed interest rate product to the 
mortgage. The mortgage advice was provided by an independent mortgage broker.
The mortgage offer detailed that an ERC of 5% was payable if the mortgage was fully or 
partially repaid before 2 October 2024. It was confirmed that the maximum the ERC would 
be was £39,799.95.
In the spring of 2020 a further approximately £156,000 was borrowed on a repayment basis 
over a term of 29 years and 7 months. Mr L and Mr S borrowed the additional funds for 
home improvements, repairs and refurbishment of the property. A three-year fixed interest 
rate product was attached to the further advance as Mr L and Mr S wanted certainty about 
what they would be paying and that it would be within their budget. The term of the product 
was selected as it would end close to the end date of the existing product and give 
assurance about the payments for that period. The term of the further advance was selected 
to fit in with their monthly budget of £1,000. The adviser highlighted that Mr L and Mr S had a 
significant disposable income each month and suggested that they consider reducing the 
term of the mortgage or make ad-hoc lump-sum payments, within the overpayment 
allowance, to reduce the balance.
The further advance mortgage offer set out that the fixed interest rate product attached to 
the new borrowing, and that an ERC of 3% was payable until 2 May 2023. Examples of how 
much the ERC could be at different points were given. As at April 2021 the ERC was 
detailed as £4,552.40 and for April 2022 it was £4,432.94. 
A few months later the term of the mortgage was reduced to 25 years and just over 
£647,000 of the original advance was converted to an interest-only basis.
Santander sent Mr L and Mr S an annual mortgage statement in January 2021. On the third 
and fourth pages of the document it set out the balances, interest rate and payments 
applicable to each part of the mortgage. The amount of the ERC if the mortgage was fully 
repaid at that time was also documented. The figures totalled over £43,500.
The property was sold in October 2021 and the mortgage repaid. Santander charged an 
ERC of £43,232.32.
Mr L and Mr S complained. They said they would never have taken the interest rate products 
if they had understood the financial impact of redeeming the mortgage early. 
Santander responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it as it didnt consider it had done 
anything wrong. It highlighted the information that had been provided about the ERC in the 
original mortgage offer and that issued for the further borrowing in 2020. In addition, 
Santander said it had issued annual mortgage statements each February, which had again 
given details of the ERC payable. 
Mr L and Mr S didnt accept Santanders response and referred their complaint to us. When 
doing so they explained that when they took both the mortgage and the further advance, 
they had been aware there was an ERC, but werent aware of how big a sum it could be. 
They questioned whether it was legal for Santander to charge such a large amount and 
believe it was unfair of Santander to charge it. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr L and Mr S didnt accept the investigators opinion. They said that they felt Santander 
was winning by using small print, legal language and terrible terms to extort money from 
hardworking people. They asked that the complaint be escalated and so it was decided that 
the complaint should be passed to an ombudsman for consideration.
Subsequently, Mr L explained that the telephone conversations he had when the mortgage 
had been taken out, the further advance applied for and the later changes to the 
arrangements, didnt fully specify the total amount the ERC could be. Due to the reasons for 
the property needing to be sold, Mr L and Mr S said that they thought it would only be fair to 
refund some of the ERC.
As Mr L and Mr S had raised concerns about the sale of the mortgage and further advance, 
our investigator asked Santander if it would be willing to allow us to consider those concerns 
alongside the original complaint. It agreed and so our investigator looked into the additional 
issues raised. 
Mr L and Mrs S again explained that had they hadnt been aware of the significant amount 
the ERC could be and said they would never have taken out the mortgage if they had known 
they might have to pay over £40,000 in penalty fees. They also put forward that them 
taking the further advance should have been a sign to Santander that they needed more 
money and changing from repayment to interest-only would have made it aware they 
couldnt afford the mortgage payments anymore. 
The investigator explained that the original mortgage sale had been conducted by an 
independent mortgage broker, so Santander couldnt be held responsible for whether the 
advice Mr L and Mr S received was suitable. However, she went on to consider the suitability 
of the further advance in 2020 and subsequent alterations to the mortgage. She wasnt 
persuaded that there was evidence of financial difficulties at the time of the further advice or 
that the advice had been unsuitable. In addition, when Mr L and Mr S had needed to reduce 
their outgoings shortly thereafter due to then recent events, Santander had assisted them in 
doing so. She explained that the changes to circumstances and the restructure of the 
mortgage didnt release Mr L and Mr S from their obligations under the mortgage contracts 
that theyd entered into. So it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to apply the ERC when 
they repaid the mortgage in 2021.
Mr L and Mr S said that they considered the investigators findings evidenced that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was complicit in allowing the mis-selling of financial products without repercussions for financial institutions that were exploiting the public. They asked 
that the complaint be referred to the investigators superiors before they advanced to legal 
action, and they would ensure that the matter was made public. As such, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I would confirm that Santander is not responsible for whether the advice Mr L and 
Mr S received in 2019 was suitable for them, including what they were or were not told in 
telephone conversations with the adviser. This is because the adviser worked for an 
independent mortgage broker, rather than Santander, so Santander is not responsible for 
that advice. As such, I will restrict my comments regarding the original advance to the 
documentation Santander provided Mr L and Mr S.
Santander did, however, advise on the further advance. Mr L and Mr S have said that they 
were in financial difficulties at the time and thats why they borrowed additional money. Ive 
looked at the evidence from the time, and there is no record of them making Santander 
aware of any difficulties. Indeed, had they done so, I think it unlikely that the advance would 
have been granted. The contemporaneous evidence shows that Mr L and Mr S had a 
substantial income and were looking to spend some money on improving and renovating 
their new home. They even provided a quote for the largest item of expenditure they were 
planning. Santander completed an affordability assessment, including checking their 
incomes and noting their outgoings. The mortgage and further advance were more than 
affordable and left them with a significant monthly disposable income. 
There were clearly discussions about adding a fixed interest rate product to the further 
advance. Mr L and Mr S were recorded as wanting such a product to ensure they know what 
their payments would be going forward. It would appear the options of having a three-year 
product to end slightly before the product on the main mortgage, or two, two-year products to 
coincide more closely with the end of the main mortgage product were explored. Mr L and 
Mr S were recorded as wanting the three-year rate as it guaranteed the payments for longer. 
At the time, there was no mention of them planning to sell the property, rather, they were 
planning to improve it to fit more closely with their personal requirements. Based on the 
evidence from the time the advance was applied for, I can see nothing that shows the further 
advance wasnt suitable for Mr L and Mr S or that there were any concerns about its 
affordability. 
Wider circumstances changed considerably shortly after the advance was made due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and the associated restrictions. Mr L and Mr S have explained that this 
had a detrimental effect on some of Mr Ls family members, which meant they needed to 
provide financial support. This eventually led to the property being sold in 2021. Prior to that 
happening, Mr L and Mr S asked Santander for assistance in reducing their mortgage 
payments. It restructured the mortgage, which reduced the monthly payments significantly. I 
cant find Santander at fault for assisting Mr L and Mr S in this way. Nor do I think their 
conversation about reducing their mortgage payments should necessarily have resulted in a 
discussion about the ERC, as there is no indication that Santander was made aware of any 
possibility of the property being sold in the near future.
That said, the documentation produced by Santander from both the original sale and the 
further advance clearly sets out that there is an ERC if the borrowing is paid off before the 
end of the product terms. Mr L and Mr S have acknowledged that they were aware there were ERCs potentially payable, but have stated they werent aware of how much the 
charges could be. It would be normal for ERCs to be discussed in mortgage interviews and 
the offer documents Mr L and Mr S accepted, set out the ERCs clearly and gave monetary 
examples. The one relating to the first mortgage advance clearly says the ERC could be 
more than £43,500. While Mr L and Mr S may not have registered the figures involved, as 
they had no intention at those times of selling the property in the immediate future, I am 
satisfied they were made aware by Santander of how much they might have to pay upon 
early repayment. 
Mr L and Mr S accepted the offers Santander made to them and so, when they repaid the 
mortgage early, it was not unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC that they had 
accepted as part of the mortgage they had entered into.
In relation to Mr L and Mr S concern that the amount of the ERC is exorbitant and unfair, I 
would explain that in order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money 
themselves. As with loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with 
borrowing that money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a 
tranche of money for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with 
doing so. Included in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. 
When that happens some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, 
but the lender remains liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the 
lender repays its borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and an assessment of future 
conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the 
regulators requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the 
ERC will be and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr L and Mr S consider that, given the reasons they repaid the mortgage early, it was unfair 
of Santander to charge the full ERCs. While I can understand why they feel that way and I 
can only sympathise with the situation they found themselves in, I cant ask Santander to 
refund part or all of the ERCs.  Under the regulators rules, provided the charge is a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it 
can make the charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, although it cant be made 
publicly available as its commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amounts 
charged in this case were a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L and Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman