DRN-3339187
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made under 
her property owners insurance policy. Mrs A has said she experienced a number of delays 
in the progress of her claim, and then the claim was declined.
What happened
Mrs A has explained that she contacted Fairmead to make a claim under her policy on 7 
October 2020. This was because the ceiling in an en-suite bathroom at her property, 
occupied by tenants, had fallen in. 
Mrs As said her home emergency provider had already visited the property and carried out 
some temporary work to make the property safe, but then the damage needed to be 
repaired. 
Fairmead asked Mrs A to provide a report into the cause of the damage at her property, 
photos of the damage and a quotation for the necessary work. A few weeks later Mrs A did 
provide a quotation. But Fairmead said this quote wasnt to replace the damage area with 
the same materials as before. The quote included replacement with fibreglass, rather than 
felt. So, Fairmead said it couldnt accept this quote. It also said it still needed to see a cause 
of damage report and photos of the damage, as well as a more detailed breakdown of the 
quote that had been sent to it.
At this stage, which was now January 2021, Fairmead said if Mrs A was struggling to gather 
the information, it could appoint someone to come out to the property. Mrs A was dissatisfied 
with this. She said had asked for this initially and was told no one could come out. And, Mrs 
A said having someone come out to the property would be no use now, as she had the 
repairs completed by a different contractor  using like for like materials. 
Fairmead therefore asked Mrs A to provide an invoice for the work, along with a cause of 
damage report, and photos. Mrs A responded and said she had sent receipts. And she said 
she wasnt able to provide anything further. She said the home emergency insurer had taken 
photos of the damage, and written a report, and Fairmead should reach out to it. 
On 30 March 2021 Mrs A sent the final invoice over to Fairmead. On 16 April 2021 it 
responded to Mrs A and said Mrs A would need to contact her home emergency insurer 
herself, as it was a different provider. And then send the information over.
On 1 May 2021, Fairmead, having not received the above, told Mrs A her claim had been 
declined. It said there was no storm at the time of the loss, and it was likely the damage was 
instead due to wear and tear.
Mrs A complained to Fairmead. But its position in relation to the claim remained the same. 
Because Mrs A remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
she said Fairmead had acted fairly in declining Mrs As claim, because there were no storm 
conditions at the time of the loss. She also considered how Fairmead had handled the claim 
 and felt it had acted fairly in the information it had asked Mrs A to provide. She also said 
that it was right for Fairmead to give Mrs A the opportunity to provide this information before 
it declined the claim.  
Mrs A didnt agree. In summary she said:
Fairmead could have declined her claim at the beginning  and never mentioned 
storm until the end of the claim.
The home emergency insurer had told her it would forward the cause of damage 
report and photos to Fairmead.
Fairmead initially told her it couldnt send someone out to her property to assess the 
damage. But several months later it had offered this.
She had needed to get the work at the property completed as soon as possible, as 
this bathroom wasnt in a use-able condition for her tenants.
Requesting the builders invoice suggested Fairmead were going to accept the claim.
Because Mrs A didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mrs A feels that Fairmead hasnt acted in line with this. 
So, Ive considered her concerns. And based on what Ive seen I think Fairmead has acted 
fairly in declining the claim, and in the way that it handled the matter.
Decline of claim
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was fairly declined is the terms and 
conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when the cover 
was purchased.
From reviewing Mrs As policy Im aware its what is called an insured peril policy. This 
meaning, that for the claim to be covered, the damage needs to have been caused by an 
insured peril listed in the policy booklet. For example, fire, theft or flood. If the damage 
wasnt caused by any one of those things, then the loss isnt covered, and the claim wont be 
settled.
The damage Mrs A was claiming was repairs due to the roof falling in. So, Mrs A would need 
to show, that as above, this damage was caused by one of the insured perils. Fairmead 
asked Mrs A to provide information in this regard  this being a quotation, cause of damage 
information and photographs of the damage. And based on what Ive seen, whilst a 
quotation was received, the remained of the information wasnt. As this information wasnt 
received, Im aware that Mrs A hasnt shown that the cause of the damage was due to one of 
the insured perils listed in her policy booklet.In May 2021, Fairmead declined Mrs As claim. It said it thought it was likely to be caused by 
wear and tear, having looked into whether the reported issues could have been caused by a 
storm, and noted no storm related weather conditions at the time of the loss. Mrs A has said 
storm wasnt mentioned to her until that point. And I can appreciate her confusion here.
But I do think Fairmead acted reasonably. I say this because Mrs A didnt have accidental 
damage cover under her policy. And so, it considered the perils within her policy booklet, to 
see whether there was any other section of the policy that would cover the loss, based on 
the information it had. The only relevant sections would have been storm or escape of water 
from, or frost damage to, fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes. So, I think it was right, in the 
absence of any other information, to consider the weather conditions at the time of the loss. 
Fairmead found there were no storm conditions around the time of the loss, that fell in line 
with the policy definition of storm  this being high winds of 47mph or more, or torrential rain 
of an inch or more in an hour. Ive considered the weather reports myself, to see what the 
weather was like around the loss. And Im also satisfied there were no weather conditions 
severe enough to meet the above criteria. This criteria isnt unusual in terms of what would 
be considered storm conditions  and so I think Fairmead were fair to decline the claim on 
this basis.
As above, Fairmead didnt have a cause of damage report that suggested any other insured 
peril was the cause of the problem  such as an escape of water. And so, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for it to note it wouldnt be settling the claim. 
Fairmeads handling of the claim 
Mrs As explained that she doesnt feel Fairmead handled her claim promptly or fairly. So, 
Ive also carefully considered this. There were some emails that Fairmead didnt respond to 
promptly, but I dont think this effected the efficiency of the claim, as Fairmead was awaiting 
information from Mrs A at this point. And overall, I consider that Fairmead handled this claim 
fairly.
It asked for information to validate the claim and reiterated on a number of occasions what it 
needed from Mrs A, which Ive seen via emails and on phone notes from the time. On seeing 
the initial quotation provided was for a different material roof, Fairmead did go back to Mrs A 
and explain this, and again reiterated it needed information as to the cause of the damage  
which is something those quoting to repair the damage should have been able to provide.
I understand Mrs A said she initially asked for someone from Fairmead to come and visit the 
property, but was told no. I can see in an email to Mrs A in January 2021 Fairmead 
explained this to Mrs A. It said it normally asked for a local contractor to be appointed in the 
first instance. And if this wasnt possible it would then look to send someone out. Mrs A did 
get a local contractor  but she explained that it told her a fibreglass roof would be a better 
option. On learning this, Im satisfied Fairmead said if Mrs A was struggling, it could get 
someone else out at that point, but when Mrs A replied she said shed already got the work 
done. So, I dont think there was anything else Fairmead could have done differently here.
Mrs A has said she feels that Fairmead could have declined her claim from the beginning, 
and it should have done so. But I dont agree. I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to ask 
Mrs A for information about the loss, so it could assess the matter  in case there was an 
element of cover under the policy. And this is what it did. Once it was clear that information 
wasnt coming, I think it was then fair for Fairmead to decline the claim, based on the limited 
information it did have.
I understand Mrs A has said the home emergency representatives said it would be providing 
information to Fairmead. Ive looked at Mrs As policy  and I can see that this policy doesnt include home emergency cover  so this is provided by a different insurer. So, Fairmead is 
unlikely to be aware of who insures Mrs A for home emergency cover, or has a relationship 
with it to share such information automatically. Fairmead did let Mrs A know she would need 
to obtain the cause of damage information, as well as photographs. And so, if the home 
emergency insurer collated this, then Im satisfied Mrs A would have needed to reach out to 
the home emergency insurer to obtain this information. 
Mrs A feels that in requesting the invoice for the work carried out, Fairmead suggested it 
would be accepting to claim. But as our investigator has noted, I cant see anything to 
suggest Fairmead gave the impression it would be settling the claim. Rather, this information 
was requested to look at validating the claim. So, I dont think Fairmead did anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman