DRN-3891651
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J have complained that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada reduced the cover on their whole of life 
policy.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary in 
2019 Sun Life sent a review letter to Mr J and Mrs J. As no response was received Sun Life 
reduced their cover.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr J and Mrs J appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im aware that Mr J and Mrs J will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont uphold their 
complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why:
Mr J and Mrs J had a reviewable policy  it was reviewed in 2009 and 2014. This 
complaint concerns the 2019 review.
Sun Life wrote to Mr J and Mrs J on 21 December 2019. The letter started: We have 
reviewed your plan  you need to make a decision.  It explained that there had 
been a review and that the premium paid was insufficient to maintain the current life 
cover. It set out the two options open to Mr J and Mrs J. These were to keep the 
reduced level of cover set out or to keep the current cover  which meant paying 
more. I think that was clear. 
The letter also clearly explained that if no response was received option 1 would 
happen automatically on 17 January 2020.  Mr J and Mrs J have said that they didnt 
read the letter as Mrs J mislaid it. I do understand that they feel the choice was theirs 
and not to be imposed by Sun Life. But Sun Life wasnt obligated to send further 
letters or reminders. As they received the letter and didnt reply I dont find that Sun 
Life did anything wrong by reducing the sum assured.
In all the circumstances I dont find that Sun Life have treated Mr J and Mrs J 
contrary to their policy terms, unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman