DRN-4323453
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money they lost as the result 
of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
What happened 
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will not repeat them in full here. In 
summary, on 16 October 2020 Mr H made an international payment of £4,031.25 online. He 
understood he was paying this amount as a refundable bond to enable the release of shares 
he held in a company that was being taken over. Mr H had carried out thorough due 
diligence before making the payment. When he was then asked to pay an additional amount 
for tax Mr H became concerned and reported the scam to Lloyds.  
Mr H says Lloyds failed to protect him from this fraud and then provided poor service when 
he reported it. Mr H says when he called to find out how to make this international payment, 
Lloyds had told him it would place the payment into a suspense account until more checks 
were completed and it would wait on his further instructions  yet it went ahead without doing 
this. He asks for a full refund, £500 compensation and an indemnity against any legal costs 
he must pay as a result of the scam.
Lloyds says the payment was not unusual for Mr and Mrs Hs account so there was no need 
for it to intervene. Once Mr H reported the scam it tried to recover the money but was 
unsuccessful. It confirmed it had apologised for the poor service Mr H received and made 
two compensation payments for the distress this caused, as well payments to cover his call 
costs and international charges. This totalled £134. It said it had recordings of two calls from 
15 October 2020, but no other records of any calls between the parties on or around the 
date of the transaction. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She found that Lloyds ought to 
have intervened as the payment was out of character. But she felt this would not have 
stopped the payment as Mr H had thoroughly checked the circumstances. She listened to 
the two calls from 15 October but found Lloyds did not mention placing the payment into a 
suspense account. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review. In 
summary, they said the crux of their complaint has been missed: Lloyds told Mr H it would 
place the payment into a suspense account prior to his final instructions, but it did not do 
this. They ask what has happened to this call recording. They say the transaction was not 
authorised and was unusual. And had Lloyds intervened Mr H would have listened to the 
bank and not made the payment. They find the assessment shows bias in favour of Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr H I have thought carefully about all of his comments and submissions. 
And I mean no discourtesy by this, but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute 
resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I find to be material 
to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr H has said that our investigation to date shows bias. We are an independent and 
impartial organisation and we do not act on behalf of financial services companies or 
consumers - it is not in our interest to find in favour of one party over the other.
Where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities, so on what I find is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to start by addressing Mr Hs point that Lloyds told him it would place the funds in a 
suspense account, and wait further instructions from him, but processed the payment 
anyway.
Lloyds provided recordings from two calls from 15 October 2020. Mr H is certain the 
discussion around the suspense account arose when he called to find out how to make an 
international payment. From the recordings I have been able to listen to he provided the 
beneficiary details on the first call, but there is no mention of a suspense account, or of 
Lloyds waiting to hear back from Mr H. Rather the payment did not go ahead on the first call 
on that date as the advisors system was unable to process international payments at that 
time. On the second call the adviser explained to Mr H how he could set up an international 
recipient online. Again there was no discussion about a suspense account or further checks. 
And Mr H ended that second call seeming satisfied he understood how to make the payment 
online himself.
We asked Lloyds to check if there are any other relevant calls, and it has confirmed it has no 
record of other calls around that time. I accept this is frustrating for Mr H as he recalls a 
discussion about Lloyds holding his money in a suspense account. I dont doubt these are 
his honest recollections, but we are an evidence-based service and without a recording of 
the call he remembers to evidence the bank error he describes I cannot fairly conclude 
Lloyds acted against its own advice as he alleges.  From the available evidence it seems 
whilst Mr H called about the payment on 15 October 2020, he went ahead and made it 
online after receiving clear help on how to from the international payments team.
So on balance I am satisfied that Mr H made and authorised the payment. I find had that not 
been the case, he would have contacted Lloyds immediately, given he recalls he believed it 
to be waiting his instructions. Given it was a significant sum, had it debited his account 
without his authorisation I would have expected him to contact Lloyds to query it as soon as 
he became aware  so most likely within days, not months.
Mr H knew why he was making the payment. At the stage he was making this payment, he 
believed he was transferring money to pay a refundable bond that would allow him to access 
shares he held. I dont dispute Mr H was scammed and he wasnt making the payment for 
the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the transaction was authorised under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
Its also accepted that Lloyds has an obligation to follow Mr Hs instructions. So in the first 
instance Mr H is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be taken 
into account. To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. To note, as the payment was international the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code does not apply in this case. This means I think that Lloyds should have: 
 been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism. 
 had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate 
that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so given 
the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which financial institutions are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional steps 
or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case I dont think Lloyds ought to be held liable for the transaction. Ill explain why. 
I do think the transaction ought to have triggered an intervention from Lloyds. I say this as it 
was out of character for the account. Mr and Mrs H did not make international payments, 
infrequently or otherwise.
This means I need to decide what the most likely outcome would have been if Lloyds had 
made an effective intervention. And based on the available evidence I dont think a 
proportionate intervention would most likely have changed the outcome. 
I say this for a number of reasons: Mr H had carried out significant due diligence and would 
have been able to credibly answer a proportionate level of questions about the payment; he 
had researched the company at Companies House and via the Financial Conduct Authority; 
he had spoken to different people at the organisation over a period of time; the scammer had 
precise details about Mr Hs shareholding which legitimised the request; and Mr H had 
received a number of documents that appeared genuine, such as proof of ownership of the 
shares and an agreement of the offer for the sale of the shares. 
So I dont think Lloyds would have uncovered any signs that Mr H was at risk of financial 
harm and so advised him not to proceed. I think Mr H would have provided plausible 
answers to a sufficient line of questioning, and so it would have been reasonable for Lloyds 
to release the payment. It follows I have not found any evidence to show that Mr Hs likely 
replies would have been so concerning Lloyds should have refused to process the payment.
Mr H also raised that Lloyds had failed to carry out necessary compliance and KYC (Know 
your customer) checks on the beneficiary. But its obligation to complete KYC checks extend 
only to its relationship with Mr H as its customer, and not to his payees. Due to the time 
since the payment was made the internet banking logs that show the exact payment journey 
are no longer available, but Lloyds has confirmed that there would have been an extra layer 
of security (such as a one-time passcode or the right password/memorable information 
combination) given the characteristics of the transaction.
I have also considered if Lloyds did enough to try to recover Mr and Mrs Hs money once    
Mr H reported the scam. I can see this was on 12 February 2021, some months after he 
made the payment. It then contacted the recipient bank but no funds remained; in the 
circumstances I would not expect Lloyds to have taken any further action to try to recover 
the funds. 
It follows I am not planning to instruct Lloyds to refund any money to Mr and Mrs H. I 
anticipate they will be very disappointed. This is a difficult decision to make, Im sorry they 
have lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why they would like to be compensated for their loss. I do accept Mr H has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I 
can only consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be 
held responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find Lloyds can 
be held liable in the circumstances of this case. I find the compensation it paid for its poor 
service and related call costs and fees to be reasonable given the impact and duration of the 
those issues.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman