DRN-4119137
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of compensation offered by Close Brothers Limited (CBL) 
after it allowed him to reject a car that he had been supplied with under a conditional sale 
agreement (agreement).
What happened
In October 2021 Mr H entered into an agreement with CBL for a used car costing £21,998. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to make an 
advance payment of £8,000 followed by 48 monthly payments of £391.58  making a total 
repayable of £26,795.84 at an APR of 16.4% APR. Between October 2021 and 
January 2023 Mr H made all the agreement payments required of him, £8,000 deposit and 
15 monthly payments of £391.58.
Shortly after acquiring the car Mr H identified a number of issues with it which he brought to 
the attention of the supplying dealership, his warranty company and CBL.
In October 2022, and after Mr H had complained to it, CBL issued Mr H with a final response 
letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL CBL said it was upholding Mr Hs complaint (about 
the quality of the car he was supplied with) and that it was prepared to refund him 4 monthly 
agreement payments totalling £1,566.32 (having previously refunded 5 monthly agreement 
payments totalling £1,957.90) plus £100 towards a valet and £150 in compensation.
In December 2022, and after Mr H had complained to it again, CBL issued Mr H with a 
second FRL. Under cover of this FRL CBL said it was upholding Mr Hs complaint (about the 
quality of the car he was supplied with) and that it was prepared to allow rejection of the car 
and to refund him 3 monthly agreement payments totalling £1,324.74, his advance payment 
of £8,000, £538.42 for insurance, £52.50 for road tax and £150.00 in compensation.
In February 2023 Mr H complained to our service. He said that he was looking for CBL 
(amongst other things) to pay him a further £3,350 in compensation, broken down as follows:
car rental costs £1,000
inspection costs £350
warranty cost £2,000
In March 2023 Mr H confirmed to our service that CBL had settled the inspection costs he 
had incurred directly with the inspector(s).
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that for 
Mr H having been supplied with a car that wasnt satisfactory quality CBL, by way of further 
compensation, should remove any adverse information it had recorded with credit reference 
agencies in respect of the agreement and pay him:
interest at 8% a year simple on each refund already made (deposit, 5 monthly 
agreement payments, 4 monthly agreement payments, 3 monthly agreement 
payments, car insurance and road tax) from the date of payment (by Mr H) to the 
date of refund (by CBL)
a further £300 in compensation
However, the investigator said that CBL need not refund to Mr H the cost of his purchased 
warranty (£2,000) and his car rental costs (£1,000), with reasons for the same given.
Mr H responded to the investigator to say he accepted his view.
CBL responded to the investigator to say that it would ensure any adverse information 
recorded with credit reference agencies was removed and that Mr H was paid interest on all 
refunds at 8% simple a year. However, it said it didnt feel it should have to pay anything 
further in compensation.
The investigator considered CBLs response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind, so Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. But as CBL 
doesnt dispute this Im satisfied I dont need to explain my reasons for coming to this view 
except to say they are the same as the investigators and which were shared with the parties 
in March 2023.
However, although CBL accepts that Mr H was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality, it doesnt believe it should have to compensate Mr H a further £300.
Mr H says he is happy with what the investigator proposed CBL should have to do to fairly 
and reasonably compensate him. However, for the sake of completeness and for the 
avoidance of doubt, I would like to confirm that Im satisfied (for the same reasons as those 
shared by the investigator to the parties in March 2023) that CBL need not compensate Mr H 
for his claimed car rental costs and warranty cost, and it need refund no more than 12 
monthly agreement payments to him.
I will now turn to the issue that remains in dispute. And that is whether CBL should pay Mr H 
a further £300 in compensation, bringing the total in this respect to £600.
Ive considered what all the parties have said and submitted on this point. And having done 
so I can confirm that like the investigator Im satisfied that CBL should have to pay Mr H a 
further £300 in compensation, bringing the total in this respect to £600. Ill explain why:
although Mr H was supplied with a car that was over 13 years old it had only travelled 
in the region of 50,000 miles, cost him nearly £22,000 and was from a premium 
manufacturer with a list price, when new, of over £55,000based on system notes provided by CML Mr H first raised possible concerns about 
the quality of the car in early December 2021, only two months or so after he took 
delivery of it.
based on system notes provided by CML it took it nearly 9 months for it to issue its 
first FRL upholding Mr Hs complaint and offering compensation
based on system notes provided by CML it took it nearly 3 months for it to issue its 
second FRL upholding Mr Hs complaint and offering compensation
Mr H had use of the car for no more than 3 months, with it being in for investigation 
and repair for about 12
despite being without the car for about 12 months Mr H still made every agreement 
payment required of him
one or more repairs werent undertaken (at least initially) because the relevant 
parties concluded (wrongly in my view) they werent liable to undertake them
one or more repairs werent successful
Mr H had to chase for updates on his complaint on numerous occasions
I would also like to address CBLs submission that an award of £600 isnt in line with 
previous views and decisions issued by our service or in line with what we say on our 
website in respect of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As CBL is aware each case is considered on its own facts and merits, and Im not bound by 
what our service may have found in the past on what CBL says are similar complaints. But 
for the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm that Im satisfied that our service has made similar 
awards in similar circumstances in the past. 
Furthermore, Im fully aware of what we say on our website about compensation for distress 
and inconvenience suffered by consumers. But unfortunately for CBL Im of the view that 
rather than supporting what it submits constitutes fair compensation in the particular 
circumstance of this case, it supports what the investigator in his March 2023 view 
concluded constitutes fair compensation in the particular circumstances of this case and 
what Ive gone on to conclude in this decision.
So, in summary, Im satisfied that this complaint should be upheld and that CBL should 
compensate Mr H, to the extent it hasnt done so already, in line with what the investigator 
concluded in his March 2023 view.
Putting things right
To the extent it hasnt already done so, CBL must:
refund Mr H the last 12 monthly agreement payments he made together with interest 
at 8% simple a year from the date of payment (by Mr H) to the date of refund by it*
refund Mr H £538.42 (paid for insurance) and £52.50 (for road tax) together with 
interest at 8% simple a year from the date of payment by Mr H to the date of refund 
by it*
pay Mr H £150 compensation as offered under its FRL dated 6 October 2022pay Mr H £150 compensation as offered under its FRL dated 23 December 2022
pay Mr H £100 towards the cost of a valet
settle the inspection costs (on behalf of Mr H) direct with the relevant inspector(s) to 
a maximum of £350
remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect 
of Mr Hs agreement
In addition to the above, CBL must:
pay Mr H a further £300 for distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused 
him
*Income tax may be payable on these sums. If CBL has deducted, or deducts, income tax from these 
sums it should tell Mr H how much it has taken off. CBL should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Close Brothers Limited must do what Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting Things Right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman