DRN-2748547
The complaint
Miss A complains about the monthly charges shes incurred since signing up to Experian 
Limiteds Credit Expert service. 
What happened
In 2014 Miss A signed up to the Credit Expert service and has told us she wasnt aware that, 
after a free 30 day trial period, she would be charged £14.99 a month by Experian. 
Earlier this year Miss A complained to Experian as she found she had been charged £14.99 
a month. Experian didnt uphold Miss As complaint and said the monthly subscription had 
been correctly charged. But Experian noted Miss A hadnt checked her credit file since May 
2020 so refunded 50% of her payments from that point, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss A referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Experian had dealt with Miss As case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Miss A asked to appeal and said she didnt notice the monthly payment and confirmed it 
wasnt listed with other direct debits she pays. Miss A asked for all her payments to be 
refunded. As Miss A asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian has sent us systems information to show the sign up information for the Credit 
Expert service Miss A was given. The information says Your card will not be charged for 
membership during your free 30 day trial and there is no obligation to continue with the 
service after the trial period. A fee of £14.99 will be charged on a monthly basis if you 
choose to stay a member after your 30 day free trial. 
The above information is prominently displayed within the Card details section of the online 
registration form and Im satisfied it wouldve been sufficiently clear when Miss A signed up 
for the service. I havent found that Experian provided unclear information or hid the nature 
of the fees it charged Miss A when she signed up for the Credit Expert service. 
Experian has also pointed out Miss A contacted it over the years to obtain new log in details 
so she could access her account. Experian has provided systems evidence to show Miss A 
accessed the Credit Expert account in May 2020 which shows she was using the service. 
I think its reasonable to note that Experian has been taking monthly payments from Miss A 
since 2014. Miss A didnt see a direct debit for the payments because they were collected 
under a continuous payment authority. But the payments will have shown on Miss As bank 
statements. I think Experian could reasonably have expected Miss A to make contact and 
query the regular payments if she was unclear what they were for. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A but I havent found that Experian misled her when she signed 
up to the Credit Expert service or that it has treated her unfairly while responding to her 
complaint. The monthly charges have been paid in line with the information and terms Miss 
A accepted when she signed up in 2014. And Miss A has accessed her Credit Expert service 
during the period in question. 
Experian agreed to refund 50% of the fees Miss A from May 2020 to the point where she 
complained as a gesture of goodwill. As I havent found Experian made an error and Im 
satisfied it dealt with this complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman