DRN-3514304
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a loan Inclusive Finance Limited (trading as Creditspring) 
provided to him. He says he was already in a spiral of debt at the time.
Background
Creditspring provided Mr L with a loan for £250 in November 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 4 monthly instalments of around £62.50. In addition to this, Mr L was required to 
pay a monthly membership fee of £6 a month to be eligible to borrow from Creditspring. One 
of our investigators reviewed what Mr L and Creditspring had told us. She thought that 
Creditspring hadnt done anything wrong and didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint be 
upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Creditspring needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creditspring needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr L 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Creditspring says it agreed to Mr Ls application after he provided details of his income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search and all of 
this information showed Mr L could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On 
the other hand, Mr L has said he was in a spiral of debt and so couldnt afford this loan.
Ive thought about what Mr L and Creditspring have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
Creditspring has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. Creditsprings 
searches appear to show that Mr L had quite a bit of existing credit. But these commitments 
were being maintained and a significant amount of Mr Ls income was set aside to repay 
this. Its also worth noting that this was Mr Ls first loan with credit spring and the amount 
advanced was very low.
I know Mr L says that his actual circumstances werent fully reflected either in the information 
he provided, or the information Creditspring obtained. Its also possible that Credit Spring 
might have reached a different decision had Mr L provided all the information that he has 
now  his bank statements and the income and expenditure assessment he went through 
with a debt charity. But bearing in mind what showed in the information Creditspring 
gathered and most crucially the amount being advanced, I dont think that there was a need 
for it to obtain the level of information Mr L has now provided. Ultimately, given the 
circumstances, it was entitled to rely on what Mr L said at the time.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Creditspring did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr L - it carried out proportionate checks even though 
its looks like the information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. 
Creditspring reasonably relied on this information and given the amount lent, the amount of 
the repayments involved and its lack of previous history with Mr L, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Creditspring to provide this loan. As this is the case, I dont think that 
Creditspring did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr L. 
Ive also thought about what Mr L has said about the information recorded on his credit file. 
But as our investigator has explained, Mr L had separate accounts for his membership fee 
and any advanced. And as both of these accounts ran into difficulty, I dont think that it was 
unfair for Creditspring to reflect this with the credit reference agencies.
Finally, Ive seen what Mr L has said about Creditspring failing to provide him with referral 
rights. But Ive seen that Mr L was sent a final response a few days after Creditsprings initial 
findings. And this did have referral rights  albeit Mr L had already referred his complaint 
here because he was familiar with our service. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Mr L 
wasnt misled into losing his right to have his complaint considered by our service.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Creditspring treated Mr L 
unfairly or unreasonably. And Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman