DRN-4375669
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) 
dealt with a claim he made on his motor insurance policy when his car was stolen. He also 
complains about esure settling the claim proportionately.  
What happened
Mr W has car insurance with esure. The policy started in June 2020 and renewed each year. 
The policy was renewed in June 2022.
Unfortunately in October 2022 Mr Ws car was stolen, and so he reported it to esure. esure 
noted Mr W had received a fixed penalty fine and three points on his drivers licence but 
hadnt declared it.  And so it made the decision to settle his claim proportionately. 
Mr W says esure undervalued his car and told him he would need to take out gap insurance 
to bridge the gap. Mr W wasnt happy with the settlement offer for the vehicle but esure 
didnt increase it. Esure said it used industry guides to value Mr Ws car and this gave the 
settlement figure of £24,354. 
Mr W feels he is being punished for an oversight when taking out his insurance and that, 
given the consequences of making such an error, esure should flag it before issuing the 
policy. He says when he took out the policy he answered the questions truthfully but the 
renewal email from esure only says thanks for renewing your car insurance and the rest of 
the information is easily overlooked by the recipient, which is what happened here. 
Esure said Mr W had been offered 77.75% of the cars market value because he hadnt 
disclosed a driving conviction. And if he had his premium would have gone up by 22.25%. 
Esure said Mr W was required to take reasonable care that the information provided is true 
and complete, otherwise it may reject or reduce the claim, or the policy may be invalid.  
Esure said because the information provided by Mr W wasnt accurate it reduced his claim 
settlement proportionately. So Mr W received £18,936 subject to his policy excess. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the response from esure and so referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said he could see Mr W made a 
misrepresentation but esure hadnt demonstrated it was qualifying, and so he didnt think 
esure acted fairly in proportionally reducing the claim. The investigator also said the 
valuation wasnt fair and should be increased to £26,113. 
Esure didnt agree. It said it had demonstrated there had been a misrepresentation, and that 
it had reduced its settlement in line with CIDRA. Because esure didnt agree the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as comments from both sides. But Ive focused on whats relevant to the outcome 
of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr W has experienced a difficult time during the course of the claim so I can see 
this has been a stressful experience for him. Mr W feels very strongly that esure has treated 
him unfairly. 
Car valuation 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Under the terms of the policy esure must pay the market value of the car at the time of the 
loss, less the excess. 
Mr Ws policy says, we wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, 
less the total excess payable.. The policy defines market value as, the amount you could 
reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your 
accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model 
and of a similar age, condition, and mileage at the time of the accident or loss. This value is 
based on research from motor trade guides: including Glasss, Parkers, and CAP. This may 
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car. 
I need to consider whether esure used the right market value for the car under the terms of 
the policy. Standard practice is to use industry accepted trade guides which are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices by reputable dealers. I have seen 
copies of the valuations used by esure and am satisfied the correct vehicle details were used 
to obtain them. 
Esures policy says its approach to the valuation is to pay the amount Mr W could 
reasonably have expected to sell his car for before the loss. Its starting point is the available 
guides referred to above. Esure considered one of the valuations an outlier since it said it 
was an anomaly given it was approximately £28,600; higher than the others. So esure 
offered £24,354 in total.
Mr W didnt agree. He said esures figure is lower than the prices he was able to find and he 
didnt see a comparable car for the price of the total settlement value. Mr W provided a 
number of adverts and valuations for similar cars to his own which showed a variance in 
price. But the variance in price demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. 
In this case there are large variations in the three main trade guide prices for Mr Ws car. 
Because these variations are so marked and given the available evidence of advertised 
prices for replacement cars, I dont think its fair, in this case, to disregard only the highest 
value. I also dont think averaging the lower values produces a fair and reasonable figure. 
Our investigator didnt agree with esures valuation. He obtained four valuations and since 
two of them were around £28,000 he used five valuations to obtain a settlement figure.   
Taking everything into account I think on balance the investigators recommendation that the 
valuation should be based on five trade guides at £26,113 is fair and reasonable in this case. 
And I think esure should increase its valuation of Mr Ws car to this figure and deal with the 
claim accordingly. 
Misrepresentation The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires the consumer  in this case Mr W - to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer, esure. And if a consumer fails to do this 
the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. For it to 
be qualifying the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms, or 
not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Esure say Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when his 
policy renewed. Our investigator asked esure to provide details of the call where Mr W 
renewed his policy but was told there wasnt one. The policy wasnt renewed over the 
telephone. The policy was automatically renewed and the documents sent to Mr W. Those 
documents say; 
You are required to take reasonable care that this information is true and complete. If the 
information is wrong, incomplete, or changes during the year, call us 
immediatelyotherwise we may reject or reduce any claim you make, or even treat you as 
being uninsured. 
The documents also say; 
Tell us before your next renewal date if you or any driver under your policy is convicted of a 
motoring offence including convictions, endorsements, fixed penalty notices and speed 
camera offences. 
Mr Ws testimony from the beginning of his complaint, and throughout, is that he contacted 
esure and told it he had received the driving conviction. He was told the conviction might 
increase the price of his premium  but it didnt. I have seen a letter to Mr W dated 4 July 
2022 that says, Thank you for your recent request to change your car insurance policy and 
we confirm these changes have been made for you. And this appears to support Mr Ws 
version of events. Without any other proof, I dont know what exactly Mr W said and what he 
was told. So in the absence of proof, Ive considered what is more likely to have happened. 
And I think Mr Ws intention was to tell esure about the conviction and wasnt aware he 
needed to do this online. 
Mr W says he wasnt aware he needed to log the penalty points via his online account and I 
understand why. I havent seen anything confirming that any changes need to be reported 
online. The policy requires that if any information is wrong, incomplete, or changes then 
consumers should call us immediately and on the evidence available to me, that is what Mr 
W appears to have done. 
If a consumer has provided information that is incorrect or incomplete then in order for the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one esure need to show Mr W didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation; and based on what Ive said above Im not persuaded 
Mr W didnt take reasonable care. 
But even if Mr W hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation esure has to 
show it would have done something differently. Here, esure says it would have charged a 
higher premium so this service asked esure to provide evidence of this. But from what Ive 
seen I cant say esure has done this. Mr W paid £767.48 for his policy but esure says if it 
had been aware of the conviction it would have charged him £987.06; which is approximately 22% higher. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest this is the case, 
despite requesting it.
I asked esure to evidence what premium Mr W should have paid at the time they took out 
the policy. I need to be satisfied the increase is in line with the underwriting criteria that 
applied to all consumers and that it reflects the price Mr W would have paid at renewal  not 
the price calculated at a later date.
The evidence Ive seen suggests a vehicle change triggered an increase in the premium 
from March 2022 to June 2022. The evidence says the vehicle change had a significant 
bearing on the price. Esure says when the policy renewed in 2022 it scored various risks 
differently which led to the customer benefitting from a more favourable position for his 
circumstances. But there is no mention of the penalty points, or evidence to show how they 
would have impacted the premium not just for Mr W, but for all customers. 
And so because I dont think esure has demonstrated it would have acted differently had it 
been aware of the penalty points, and I think Mr W took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation then it follows that there is no qualifying misrepresentation here. And so 
esure is unable to take any action in respect of the policy or reducing settlement.  
Response to my provisional decision
Neither party raised any additional points.
Esure didnt agree with the provisional decision. It said the consumer provided incorrect 
information when setting up the policy and has been treated in line with other consumers.  
In response I explained my decision is based on the evidence and from what Id seen I 
wasnt persuaded Mr W had been treated fairly for the reasons Ive explained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mr W or esure had anything to add to the findings set out in my 
provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), 
Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the reasons Ive set 
out above Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
I think a figure of £26,113 is a fair settlement in the circumstances and takes into account the 
valuation of four guides. So the valuation is £1,759 more than the final offer from esure. 
So I think esure should settle the claim based on a valuation of £26,113 less the excess and 
any amount already paid in settlement of the claim.
I also think esure should pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the 
original offer to the date of the settlement. For the avoidance of doubt no reduction should be 
applied to the final settlement. 
And had esure settled the claim fairly in the first instance I dont think Mr W would have 
needed to continue to engage with us and esure in an attempt to recoup the amounts he felt 
had been deducted unfairly. Im satisfied this has taken time and effort from Mr W, and I 
dont doubt it would have been both stressful and upsetting to be without a vehicle. And so I think esure should pay Mr W £250 to recognise the trouble and upset. I think this is fair and 
falls in line with our services approach. So I intend to direct esure to pay this additional 
amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding Mr Ws complaint  and direct esure Insurance 
Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels to do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman