DRN-2866861
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) didnt 
process his payments in a timely manner, which caused them to be considered as being 
received late which in turn caused his account to accrue interest that it shouldnt have 
accrued.
What happened
In 2020, after reviewing his Amex account history, Mr U noticed that Amex had, on many 
occasions, allocated payments that hed made to his account after the day that hed actually 
made the payments. This meant that the payments had been considered as being late by 
Amex, which in turn meant that his account had accrued interest that shouldnt have been 
accrued. Mr U wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Us complaint, but they didnt feel that they had allocated payments to Mr 
Us account late, as Mr U believed, so they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr U wasnt satisfied 
with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Us complaint, but they also didnt feel that Amex had 
allocated payments late, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr U remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex dont dispute here that some of the payments that Mr U made against the account 
were recorded as being received on the next working day after the actual day that Mr U 
made the payments to them.
However, Amex contend that in all instances this was in line with the terms and conditions of 
the credit account, which state that payments received after 5pm (close of business hours) 
will be applied to the account the next working day. And having reviewed the terms of the 
account I can confirm that these do state as such.
But Mr U disputes that he made the payments in question after 5pm and contends that he 
made the payments during business hours and that the delay in the payments being 
allocated to his account is the result of organisational and procedural delays within Amex.
The key information here then becomes whether it can be confirmed at what time Mr U 
made the payments in question. Our investigator asked both Mr U and Amex for evidence 
that would confirm this information, but unfortunately neither party were able to provide any 
conclusive evidence which gave a clear indication of the times that Mr U made the payments 
which had subsequently been allocated to his account by Amex on the next working day.
This makes it very difficult for me to reach the same conclusion as Mr U here  specifically, 
that the payments in question were allocated to Mr Us account late as a result of Amex 
delays. And I say this because there is no evidence available to me which corroborates this 
position.
Indeed, the evidence that is available to me appears to corroborate the explanation provided 
by Amex, which is that the payments in question were made by Mr U after business hours 
and so were only allocated to Mr Us account the next available working day.
This evidence includes several payment received alert emails sent by Amex to Mr U. For 
instance, on 23 April 2019 Amex sent Mr U an email at 6:36 a.m. which confirmed that a 
payment had been received. And its noticeable that in the body of the email that the date 
received is listed as being 22 April 2019  the day before the email was sent, and the day 
that the payment was due.
While I can appreciate that Mr U feels that because the date received is listed as being 22 
April 2019, that this is the date that the payment should be considered as being allocated to 
his account. However, there is no record in the email of the time on 22 April 2019 that the 
payment made by Mr U was received. 
Furthermore, if it were the case that the payment was received after 5pm on 22 April 2019, 
the email would declare the payment as being received on that date, but the payment would 
only be allocated to Mr Us account the next available working date  which in this instance 
is the 23 April 2019. And that appears to be precisely what happened, given that the email 
confirming the receipt of payment was sent to Mr U by Amex in the early hours of the next 
available working day - 23 April 2019.
Having reviewed Mr Us account statements as well as all of the payment received alerts 
that have been provided to this service, I have found nothing to repudiate the assumption - 
which I feel given the available evidence its reasonable to make - that all instances where 
payments were allocated to the account later than the date that Mr U made the payment are 
instances where Mr U has made the payment later than 5pm, meaning that payment has 
been allocated to Mr Us account the next available working day, as per the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Importantly, as mentioned previously, I have similarly found nothing to corroborate the 
position that Mr U holds in this instance  specifically, that he did make the payment within 
business hours, but that Amex unnecessarily delayed allocating the payment to his account 
until the next available working day.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr U was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Amex to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr U can understand, given what I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman