DRN-2082867
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Miss A payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 28 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Miss A says Nationwide led her to believe she had to have PPI, even though she didnt need 
it because a close relative was her mortgage guarantor. However, so many years later, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to decide Nationwide misled Miss A, unless I had stronger evidence 
of what exactly was said. 
Nationwide says it has no evidence to confirm that the close relative was a guarantor. But I 
dont doubt that Miss A has remembered this correctly, judging by the detail she has given. 
But that doesnt mean the PPI was unsuitable for her, even if Nationwide did recommend it 
to her (which is what Miss A says happened). 
Miss A did have someone acting as a guarantor  and who she says did help her out 
occasionally when she had shortfalls with income from her new business. But the PPI 
potentially covered her for up to 24 months if she lost her income due to illness or 
unemployment. This would have been a big expense for her to ask her guarantor to cover. 
So it still would have been a suitable recommendation. 
I cant know how clearly Nationwide explained all the costs and restrictions But, even if it did 
this fully, I still think it could have appeared potentially useful to Miss A, judging from her 
circumstances at the time. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Miss A would have 
been affected by any of these
So Im not able, fairly, to conclude that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman