DRN-3823290
The complaint
Mr M complained that American Express Services Europe Ltd failed to cancel a transfer of 
25,000 membership reward points he had earned through his Platinum Credit Card.
What happened
Mr M has a Platinum Card with American Express through which he could earn membership 
reward points. On 14 April 2022 he submitted a transfer of 25,000 points to a partner airline 
account. He said the transfer was rejected by the airline on 20 April 2022 and went into auto 
resubmission. He noticed that and called American Express before 23 April 2022 to ask 
when the membership reward points would be credited back. He said he was advised by 
American Express that the membership reward points would be credited by the statement 
dated 28 April.
Mr M said that instead of the points been credited back the failed transfer went into 
automatic resubmission. He said it was resubmitted on 26 April, rejected by the airline again 
and resubmitted for the third time on 3 May and redeemed. He said there was no 
subsequent refund. Mr M complained to American Express. He said those resubmissions 
were the opposite instructions to what he had requested verbally and explicitly. And they 
were the opposite of what the customer service representative had advised him on the 
phone.
In its final response American Express said that the transfer reattempt was part of its internal 
policy in regard to the airlines order rejects. It said as per Mr M's card terms and conditions 
once he had redeemed his points this was non-reversible. American Express said it was 
unable to locate the call from 23 April 2022. And said that although it's not a legal 
requirement for it to record calls it had decided to uphold this element of the complaint on the 
balance of probability. As a gesture of goodwill it applied £50 credit to Mr M's platinum card.
Mr M didn't agree and brought his complaint to this service. He said he was out of pocket to 
the value of 25,000 membership reward points despite contacting American Express 
regularly about the complaint. He said he was due £375 reimbursement which he believed 
was the value of the points.
Our investigator concluded that the auto resubmission was within the policy for American 
Express and in the absence of the call recording he couldn't say that the information 
provided was wrong. Mr M was unhappy and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but having done so I wont be asking 
American Express to do anything further. 
American Express has said its back office confirmed its process has been followed with 
respect to the repeat resubmissions that occurred during the transfer, in line with its 
procedure.
It's not my role to investigate American Expresss processes. We are not the regulator, and 
we do not have a role in reviewing the adequacy of a business's processes, in this case the 
process for American Express to transfer reward points to third party partners. But I can 
investigate whether I think a process has been applied fairly or not.
When Mr M opened his account he wouldve accepted its terms and conditions. Mr M 
requested a transfer of 25,000 points. American Express said as the points were 
transferred out of Mr Ms account, they now fell under the Terms and Conditions 
which state: Please note that once your points have been transferred they cannot be 
transferred back. 
On 20 April American Express received confirmation from the airline that the 
information it held for Mr M did not match with its own information. As the airline 
requires the name and address details match exactly it was unable to complete the 
transfer. American Express said it wrote to Mr M to inform him that the points had 
been reapplied to his account. Ive seen a copy of this letter. 
American Express said Mr M requested the transfer again the same day. It provided 
a screen shot of its system confirming this. 
On 26 April, American Express said it received confirmation that the name details 
had been amended, and it attempted the transfer again. American Express also 
noted that Mr M made an additional transfer of 10,000 points to the airline on 25 
April. It provided a screen shot confirming this. 
On 3 May the points were reapplied and this time they were received by the airline. 
Again a screen shot from the system confirms this. 
It does seem like once Mr M had started the transfer process American Expresss 
terms and conditions prevented the transfer from stopping or reversing. And so the 
process of reattempting the transfer kicked in.
Mr M said he called American Express before 23 April to ask that the membership 
reward points be credited back to his account and the customer service 
representative said it would be done. American Express has said it is unable to verify 
if Mr M had been misadvised as it hadn't been able to locate the call Mr M had with it 
on 23 April. It said the relevant call had not been recorded. Mr M said in his response 
to our investigator that it was unfair to him that American Express could simply say 
we did not keep a record. He said this was unsatisfactory in this age where records 
of all calls are kept and digital backups of those recordings do exist. He said it was 
unfair that the company tries to wiggle out by saying it has no record of what was 
officially said by the customer representative on behalf of the company.
Im not disputing Mr Ms version of events when he says he spoke with American 
Express. And I do understand his frustration. But Im afraid it is the case that 
sometimes calls are not recorded or kept. In such a circumstance I must use the 
available evidence and in the absence of evidence look at what I believe is likely to 
be the case. 
I note that Mr M repeated the request to transfer 25,000 points on 20 April after the 
points had been transferred back after the first request. I also note that Mr M transferred a further 10,000 points on 25 April. This suggests to me Mr Ms intention 
was to transfer 35,000 points to the airline. It appears American Express followed its 
process to resubmit the transfer and per its terms and conditions the points couldnt 
be transferred back. So Im persuaded it hasnt made an error and I wont be asking it 
to do anything further. 
Mr M said he had also been legally advised that the explanation that the membership 
reward points would be returned to the account is legally binding on American 
Express. We are an informal resolution service, and we make decisions based on 
what is fair and reasonable. If Mr M wishes to seek legal advice he is of course free 
to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman