DRN-3387490
The complaint
Mr L complains on behalf of his business, J that its insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI), has 
unfairly declined its claim for damage to its property from the collapse of a neighbouring 
propertys wall. 
What happened
J owns industrial buildings and held Property Owners insurance with UKI since 2003, which 
was arranged by Js broker. In around 2015 a neighbouring business built a large retaining 
wall following excavations. On 16 February 2020 a large part of the wall collapsed on to one 
of Js buildings causing severe damage to the premises and property and business in use by 
Js tenants who were in occupation. 
UKI appointed loss adjusters who prepared an engineering report. They stated that there 
was no subsidence or storm damage and the collapse was due to accidental damage from 
collapse of the retaining wall. The wall does not appear to have been subject to any specific 
design and was erected by the neighbours. The collapse occurred during a period of 
adverse weather and it is likely the wall was of inadequate design to withstand the 
hydroscopic forces occurring from the accumulation of rainwater in the ground.
The loss adjusters separately stated that storm perils were a single one off event and not 
the consequences of periods of bad weather. And concluded that, as per their report, the 
damage was due to the collapse of an independent wall and this would be regarded as an 
Accidental Cause. In response UKI declined to cover the claim for damage and loss of rent. 
Js representatives complained to UKI saying that Storm Dennis had occurred just before 
the time the wall collapsed and must be the cause of the damage and so liability for the 
claim was with UKI under the storm peril in the policy. 
In its response UKI said its loss adjusters had explained the repudiation of the claim as due 
to an accidental cause, but there was no accidental damage cover in the policy. UKI said it 
considered the damage against other perils in the policy, but none applied. Concerning 
storm, it said there had been a period of adverse weather before the damage, but the storm 
peril relates to a single one-off event and not the consequences of periods of bad weather. 
And for damage to be considered as storm damage it has be caused by a specific storm.
Js representatives were dissatisfied with UKIs response, in particular that it referred to a 
period of adverse weather, rather than Storm Dennis. They asked our service to investigate 
Js complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as she thought UKI had decided 
Js claim fairly. She obtained weather reports and said there had been a storm at the time of 
the collapse. She thought the damage was consistent with storm winds but didnt think the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. She said the loss adjusters surveyor found the 
wall to have been of inadequate design and this was persuasive as the only expert report on 
the damage. She said its most likely the storm simply highlighted existing issues with the 
design of the wall.
Js representatives disagreed with the investigator and requested the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint concerns Js insurer, UKI, and so it is UKIs actions and decisions that I have 
to consider here. I havent considered the actions or decisions of Js insurance broker as this 
is the subject of a separate complaint. J and the owner of the neighbouring property have 
reached an agreed settlement to Js legal action concerning the damage as known at the 
time, and a payment of damages has been made to J. 
UKI has indicated that its decline of Js claim is due to the lack of accidental damage cover 
on the policy, and that storm wasnt the main cause of the damage and the wall had been 
inadequately constructed. As a consequence, no liability has been accepted by UKI for Js 
claim under the storm or any other peril under Js policy. 
I invited UKI to consider whether it might have applied an exclusion clause under accidental 
damage cover in the policy for poor design and workmanship had J held accidental damage 
cover. UKI has responded, This was not our insureds wall that collapsed but the neighbours 
wall that had collapsed on to our insureds property so cover would have been provided to 
the insureds own property had they elected to take out accidental damage cover. 
Js representatives said that their claim should be covered under the storm peril in Js policy. 
They said the wall collapse was due to Storm Dennis that occurred just before the damage. 
They said winds gusted between 54-62 mph and were accompanied by heavy rainfall, which 
over the two days, totalled in excess of 50% of the average total monthly rainfall. I have 
looked carefully at UKIs decision to decline the claim to see if this is in accordance with the 
terms of the policy and to see if it has treated J fairly.
Js policy provides cover for damage originating from a one-off storm event, but does not 
define what constitutes a storm. Our service tends to consider a storm is constituted by 
winds in excess of 47 mph and rainfall exceeding 30mm or more in 24 hours and I think its 
fair for me to apply these criteria to UKIs decision on the claim. 
Ive looked at the weather reports obtained by our investigator and note that the date of the 
collapse of the wall coincides with the impact of Storm Dennis. The report shows there was a 
maximum wind speed of 62mph on 16 February 2020 and a maximum rainfall over 24 hours 
of 16mm. 
We consider three questions when determining if an insurer has fairly and reasonably 
declined a storm damage claim and each should be answered yes for the complaint to 
succeed. 
The first of these is, Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? The 
weather report shows there were storm force winds at the time the wall collapsed. And a 
period of high winds before this. From this evidence Im satisfied there were storm conditions 
at the time.
Secondly, Is the damage consistent with storm damage? The investigator thought that the 
storm force winds could have caused the wall to collapse. I disagree. Ive looked carefully at 
the only expert assessment of the damage available, the loss adjusters report from its surveyor. This states that the wall does not appear to have been subject to any specific 
design, and was of inadequate design to withstand the hydroscopic forces occurring from 
the accumulation of rainwater in the ground. 
The expert report refers to the action of the build-up of water behind the wall rather than 
wind. I think this is consistent with a retaining wall acting as a barrier to earth sloping from its 
top. From the photos it doesnt appear to have been overly exposed to wind and it appears 
more likely to have collapsed under the pressure of saturated earth bearing against it. The 
storm conditions at the time relate to wind rather than rain and the heavy rainfall on its own 
doesnt meet our understanding of a storm. 
Since the wall was only about four years old, it should not have deteriorated overly since it 
was built, and I think it should have been able to withstand most storm conditions, certainly 
the build-up of hydroscopic forces from the accumulation of rainwater. The wall was built to 
hold back earth that was excavated behind it and I think its failure to do this is consistent 
with the failure of its design and construction. 
The third question is, Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? Again, I 
dont think they were. I think the principal failure of the wall was to do with the failure of its 
design and construction rather than the storm. I think it likely that the wall would have 
collapsed in any event due to the build-up of hydroscopic pressure and it follows that I dont 
think the storm was the main cause of the collapse. Where we think a wall has collapsed 
because of earth behind it becoming saturated over time, we wouldnt regard this as storm 
damage.
I think that its most likely the heavy rain simply highlighted existing issues with the design of 
the wall that would likely have been manifested during any succeeding period of heavy 
rainfall had the wall not collapsed when it did. This means that the collapse wasnt likely 
caused but a one-off storm event as required by Js policy, but a period of bad weather.
In common with most property insurance policies, Js policy carries exclusion clauses for 
claims for accidental causes where damage is thought to be due to faulty design, materials 
or workmanship. These exclusion clauses dont apply to storm damage, but for the reasons I 
have given, I think it is fair for UKI to decline this claim under the storm damage part of the 
policy.
UKI suggests that the damage should be considered as accidental and had J held accidental 
damage cover it would likely have met the claim. Js representatives said they thought J was 
covered for accidental damage, but found to their cost that this wasnt so. The lack of this 
cover for J will be considered as part of its complaint about its broker that arranged its 
insurance cover. 
Its the policyholders responsibility to show that their claim is covered by their policy. 
Unfortunately for the representatives of J they havent done so and so it wouldnt be fair for 
me to uphold their complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman