DRN-3736531
The complaint
Miss B has complained Zilch Technology Limited wouldnt provide appropriate compensation 
after her account was misused.
Miss B has been represented in her complaint by her brother, Mr B.
What happened
Miss B held a credit account with Zilch. Her brother wanted to make some purchases from 
one of the retailers that used Zilch payment services. Miss B linked her Zilch account to her 
brothers bank account. This allowed him to pay for the purchases in four equal instalments.
Four fraudulent transactions were made for £500. These amounts were debited from Mr Bs 
bank account. He complained to Zilch and four refunds were made in October 2021 just 
days after the dispute.
Mr B felt hed been treated unfairly and brought his sisters complaint to the ombudsman 
service. Our investigator told him he wasnt an eligible complainant as he didnt have an 
account with Zilch. And Miss B had been refunded in full and could not be awarded 
compensation for someone elses trouble or distress.
Mr B argued that was unfair and wanted an ombudsman to consider his sisters complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute Miss Bs account was compromised with the result her brothers account 
was debited £500. Zilch refunded this amount within a short period of time. This is in line 
with existing regulations about fraud.
They offered Miss B vouchers but no further compensation.
I know Mr B disagrees but he is not the customer here. I have no authority to consider his 
complaint as hes not an eligible complainant. Thats why this complaint is set up in Miss Bs 
name as shes Zilchs customer.
However shes not suffered any trouble or distress as she was never out of pocket. It 
wouldnt be fair to ask Zilch to compensate her for trouble she didnt suffer. I cant ask them 
to compensate her for the trouble of a third party.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Bs complaint against Zilch 
Technology Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman