DRN-3757809
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that One Sure Insurance Limited (One Sure) 
made an error when quoting the premium for its commercial van insurance and they are now 
requiring T to pay an additional premium. 
Mrs G, who is a director of T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf.  
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs G contacted One Sure to obtain a quote for a commercial van 
insurance policy for T. The vehicle was registered in Ts name and therefore she also 
intended for the insurance policy to be in Ts name.  
During the call One Sure explained that the premium may be cheaper if Mrs G, the director, 
was added onto the policy and assured her that it wouldnt impact her No Claims Bonus 
(NCB). Mrs G therefore agreed to being added to the policy. Two named drivers were then 
also added on the policy, however as one of the drivers was under the age of 25, One Sure 
said the premium would be very high. They therefore advised Mrs G to transfer her NCB 
over from her personal car insurance to reduce the premium. One Sure also offered to 
protect the NCB so it wasnt impacted by claims made by the two named drivers. Mrs G was 
given a quote and a payment was taken by One Sure. One Sure then contacted Mrs G again 
and said she could mirror her NCB and effectively get the policy cheaper, so Mrs G says she 
agreed. 
One Sure had confirmed with the insurer that it was ok to either mirror the NCB or transfer it 
from Mrs Gs personal policy to the van insurance policy. 
In February 2022 One Sure contacted Mrs G requesting proof of her earned NCB. Mrs G 
said as the policy was midterm, she could only provide the insurance certificate for proof. 
Her understanding at this point was that the NCB was being mirrored from her personal car 
insurance. One Sure sent the certificate to the insurer and in their correspondence said this 
was proof of the mirrored NCB. The insurer informed One Sure that the nine years mirrored 
NCB proof had been received and accepted however the nine years actual NCB hadnt been 
received. 
Later that month, Mrs G received correspondence stating there was an overdue amount on 
the insurance policy for the sum of £6,072.04. The premium increase was unexpected by 
Mrs G and so she contacted One Sure about it. One Sure offered a suggestion to rectify the 
problem  they said if Mrs G cancelled the NCB on her personal car policy and transferred it 
over to the van insurance policy that would reduce the premium. One Sure assured Mrs G 
that they would arrange a refund of premium for around £800 by moving the insurance policy 
to another insurer. One Sure also offered to cover the increase in premium for Mrs Gs 
personal car insurance as a result of removing the NCB. 
Mrs G therefore arranged to transfer her NCB from her personal car insurance to the van 
insurance policy. 
Having transferred her NCB, Mrs G received another phone call from One Sure informing 
her that the initial sale advisor made an error with the quote because he priced the policy 
based on nine years mirrored NCB and nine years earned NCB. This generated an incorrect 
quote of £3,243.18 which was paid by Mrs G in full and thats why there was an additional 
premium to pay for the sum of £6,072.04. Because the actual NCB had now been 
transferred over the outstanding balance reduced to £2,415.16. Mrs G expressed her 
dissatisfaction because One Sure were now saying it was unable to cover the difference on 
her personal insurance policy and instead of refunding £800 premium she was asked to 
make a further payment. 
Mrs G told One Sure she wanted to cancel the policy and requested a pro rata refund. One 
Sure said that the insurer doesnt give a pro rata period but if she continued with the cover 
they would reduce the outstanding amount further and would charge an extra £1,064.25 
instead of £2,415.16. 
Unhappy with One Sures response, Mrs G cancelled the insurance policy and brought the 
complaint to our service. Mrs G said that One Sure assured her that she could mirror her 
NCB from her personal car insurance onto the van insurance and the policy was accepted 
on this basis. She was unhappy that although One Sure had accepted theyd made an error 
when selling the policy, they were unable to put T in the position it would have been in had 
the error not happened. Although the policy has now been cancelled, she hasnt received a 
pro rata refund and there is still an outstanding balance to pay.  
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint and she thought that due to the brokers error an 
additional premium was raised by the insurer. She therefore said that T should be put back 
in the position it would have been in had the error not occurred. In order to put things right 
she said that One Sure should pay T the outstanding balance on the policy so it could clear 
it. She also recommended a pro rata refund from the date the policy was cancelled with 8% 
interest. She also felt it was fair for One Sure to pay £200 compensation for any 
inconvenience caused by this matter. She did however say that she couldnt consider any 
personal loss to Mrs G under her own car insurance policy as this complaint was brought to 
the service by T.
One Sure asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, they said the error was as a 
result of the mirrored and actual NCB remaining on the quote. One Sure say they offered to 
reduce the outstanding balance to zero however it wasnt accepted by Mrs G and therefore 
they withdrew their offer. They feel that they took the right steps to put things right and dont 
feel that its fair they should have to take any further action to resolve this matter.  
Having reviewed the file, I contacted both parties through the investigator to let them know 
that the investigator said in her view that she thought the error with the NCB was as a result 
of it not being allowed on the policy due to a different named driver. I explained in my email 
that based on the evidence I had seen; I didnt think that was the error which occurred. I was 
satisfied that the error was due to One Sure leaving two sets of NCB for nine years on the 
quote (mirrored and actual). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also listened to the calls between Mrs G, One Sure and the insurer. Having done so, Im 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G thinks that One Sure has acted unfairly by requesting additional premiums even though it was One Sures error which led to the additional premium being raised by the 
insurer. She is also unhappy with the service provided by One Sure because they have 
given her conflicting information on how to rectify the issue which has been to the detriment 
of not only T but also Mrs G in personal capacity. One Sure also made an offer to reduce the 
outstanding balance but then retracted it because Mrs G complained to our service. 
Im considering this complaint against One Sure, the broker of the policy, so I am only 
considering its actions in relation to the matter and any loss caused as a result their action. 
That means Ill consider if it met its obligations as a broker. I therefore havent considered 
whether the level of premium increase is correct because that responsibility lies with the 
insurer. 
The crux of the dispute in this case is about the error with the NCB when pricing the policy 
and also the service received thereafter. 
During the sale of this insurance policy, One Sure were acting in their capacity as the 
insurance intermediary between T and the insurer. They were therefore responsible for the 
sale but not the provision of the insurance cover T had taken out. The key facts documents 
confirm that this was an advised sale. This means, under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business regulations (ICOBS), One Sure had a responsibility to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also had a general duty 
to provide appropriate information that is clear and not misleading to enable T to make an 
informed decision about the policy. 
Part of Ts complaint is about the financial impact Mrs G encountered as a result of removing 
the NCB from her personal car insurance policy. As the investigator has explained, the 
eligible complainant under this case is T and therefore I wont be able to consider any losses 
incurred by Mrs G in her personal capacity. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs G but I 
hope she understands why I wont be able to consider her personal loss under this 
complaint. 
The sale call  
Ive started by considering the information provided by One Sure when Mrs G called to take 
out the insurance policy, this includes the telephone recordings we have been provided with. 
In One Sures submission to us, they have said the following: 
On the 28th January the Company responded email attached they informed us the 
following:
I can confirm the mirror NCD proof was received and accepted. The proof of earnt NCD was 
never received and therefore it was removed and an AP applied.
This then confirmed to us there was an error at POS which resulted in us reviewing the file. 
We listened to the VRS and at POS the Sales Advisor had a discussion with the Policy 
holder to say that if she transferred her car NCB into the Company name she could then 
USE it on this policy. (actual bonus)
The payment was taken and cover advised.
1 hour later the same Sales Advisor called the client back to say he had managed to get the 
policy cheaper effectively mirroring the bonus and this is where the error occurred as the 
policy was set up as mirrored bonus and the original quote for actual NCB was left in 
causing the mistake. I.e. it was set up on 9 years mirrored and 9 years actual bonus and as Im sure your aware its not possible to have both. 
The phone call where Mrs G was told by the sales advisor that he got the policy cheaper 
effectively mirroring her NCB has not been provided. So, while I havent had a chance to 
listen to this recording, based on what One Sure have told us in their submission, and what 
Mrs G said about what happened, Im satisfied that this conversation did take place.
Mrs G was therefore told that she could transfer her NCB over into the companys name and 
used against this policy to reduce the premium and then once payment was taken she was 
told that One Sure was able to mirror her NCB instead. Im satisfied that Mrs B was given 
conflicting information which wasnt clear and I can see why Mrs B was only expecting to 
mirror her NCB. 
NCB error
I have seen an email from the insurer confirming the mirrored NCB proof was received and 
accepted however the proof of earnt NCB wasnt received which is why the premium 
increased. This has also been accepted by One Sure in its submission to this service. Im 
therefore satisfied that it was as a result of One Sures error during the sale of the policy that 
the premium increased. 
When One Sure called Mrs G to rectify the error they told her that if she now transferred her 
NCB over to the company and used it against this policy she wouldnt need to pay the 
additional premium of £6,072.04 and instead One Sure will then move Ts policy to another 
insurer and will be able to refund around £800 of the premium she had already paid. Mrs G 
therefore acted on One Sures advice to mitigate any losses. 
Mrs G was later told this wasnt correct and the sales advisor made another error. Mrs G had 
already transferred her NCB. 
One Sures duty under ICOBS
As Ive explained above, One Sure sold this policy on an advised basis and therefore under 
ICOBS they had a responsibility to ensure the suitability of their advice. And a general duty 
to provide information that is clear and not misleading to enable T to make an informed 
decision about the policy. 
Its not in dispute that an error was made by One Sure during the sale of the policy and this 
error caused the premium on the policy to increase extortionately. From what Ive seen I 
dont think One Sure took enough care to prevent the error from occurring, I say this 
because they should have realised that they inputted two separate NCB when it was 
apparent from their conversation with Mrs G that only one existed. They should have taken 
more care to ensure the quote they were generating was correct. 
Also, when trying to rectify the first error, One Sure misadvised Mrs G again. It told Mrs G 
that she wouldnt have to pay any additional premium and would give her a refund of £800 
by moving to a new insurer. One Sure later said this was not correct and the sales advisor 
made an error. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im not satisfied that One Sure ensured the 
suitability of their advice or gave information with was clear and not misleading to Mrs G. As 
a result, Mrs G was unable to make an informed decision about the insurance policy. 
Would Mrs G have taken out the policy had the correct premium been generated from the 
outset? From the phone recordings I have listened to I am satisfied that Mrs G was very clear from 
the beginning that she didnt want to transfer her NCB. Had it not been for One Sures initial 
error, Im persuaded that Mrs G wouldnt have transferred it. I also think that Mrs G made it 
clear from the first phone call that the price of the policy was important to her and she told 
One Sure how much she was currently paying for other similar insurance policies. From the 
evidence I have seen, Im satisfied that she wouldnt have taken out the policy had she been 
given the correct premium. 
This is further supported by the fact that Mrs G has provided evidence of her current 
insurance policy for the same cover and it is cheaper than One Sures initial quote and she 
hasnt used her NCB to obtain any further discounts. Im therefore satisfied that she would 
have shopped around for alternative cover. 
Putting things right
Taking all the above into consideration, Im not satisfied that One Sure have done enough to 
put things right. The fair and reasonable thing to do here would be to put T back in the 
position it would have been had the error not occurred. I also need to take into consideration 
that T did benefit from almost five months on cover and it should pay for this. 
As Ive explained above, Im persuaded that T wouldnt have taken out this policy if it had 
been given the correct premium from the beginning and therefore it was reasonable for it to 
cancel the policy when it did. I agree with the investigator that T should only pay for the pro 
rata cost of the insurance policy on the original quote it was given of £3,243.18. One Sure 
should therefore calculate the pro rata cost of the policy for five-months and refund the 
difference. Any refund should be made with 8% simple interest from the date of the policy 
cancellation to the date of payment.
One Sure has told out service there is an outstanding balance on the policy for £1,301.71. 
Therefore, One Sure should write off this amount to clear the outstanding debt. 
I think this matter also caused T some inconvenience and therefore One Sure should pay T 
£200 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I know require One Sure Insurance Limited to take the following action:
Issue a pro rata refund for the remaining seven months of cover, calculated on the 
original quote of £3,243.18. Pay 8% simple interest on the sums refunded from the 
date of the policy cancellation to the date of payment. 
Clear the outstanding balance of £1,301.71. 
Pay £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman