DRN-3794061
The complaint
Ms H and Mr T complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) blocked their account 
and will only unblock it if they come into branch. 
What happened
Mr T says he received a new PIN number so he attempted to withdraw some money from an 
ATM. Mr T says the ATM declined this so he attended a local shop to use his card, but this 
was also declined. Mr T says he raised this with Co-op but they told him the only way to 
resolve the issue would be to attend branch  which Mr T says he cant do as he has injured 
his leg. 
Co-op responded and explained they understand Ms H and Mr Ts complaint related to them 
restricting their account following their request to make a cash withdrawal. Co-op said they 
understand this led to Ms H and Mr T being unable to withdraw money at an ATM or use 
their card in shops. Co-op explained they could see Mr T had tried to make a large cash 
withdrawal. Co-op said they appreciate Mr T might not have been expecting Co-op staff to 
query his reasons for the cash withdrawal, but they were following regulatory obligations to 
ask questions. Co-op said this also applied to the steps theyd taken by restricting the 
account which they said was down to Mr Ts unwillingness to answer the questions raised by 
their staff. Co-op said they understand Mr T wasnt well at the time which meant it was 
difficult to attend a branch, but it was important he attend with proof of his identification and 
address. Co-op said, after theyve verified Mr Ts identity and address, its still important for 
him to co-operate with their staff at branch. Co-op said, if Mr T still wishes to make a high 
value cash withdrawal, he can call the branch and confirm when hell be able to visit.   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H and Mr T. She thought Co-op hadnt acted 
unfairly in restricting the account and asking Mr T to attend branch to verify his identity. Ms H 
and Mr T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms H and Mr T will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms H and Mr Ts account. This explains the 
steps Co-op can take to check a customers identity and includes seeing evidence of identity 
in one of their branches. The terms and conditions go further to say Co-op wont make 
payments where a customer hasnt provided any identification or information theyve 
requested. The terms and conditions also allow Co-op to block and restrict an account.  
Ive listened to calls Mr T has made to Co-op to request transfers from the account. In one 
call Mr T queries whether theres a restriction on the amount hes able to withdraw in cash 
from a branch. The agent asks how much Mr T would be looking to withdraw and he 
explains its £40,000. The agent asks some questions around why Mr T wants to withdraw 
this sum and Mr T refuses to answer this and says the bank doesnt need to know why he 
requires it. The agent explains what the cash withdrawal limit is if Mr T attends branch but 
again explains the staff at branch are likely to ask him why he needs the cash. Notes relating 
to a later call say Mr T asked to transfer £25,000 but again wouldnt provide any further 
details to the agents questions, so they declined to do the transfer. 
Co-op have a policy in place which requires their staff to raise questions with customers 
wanting to make a large cash withdrawal. I can see Mr T has asked Co-op to make 
payments for large amounts, so I dont think its unreasonable for staff at Co-op to ask 
further questions. I understand that it can be inconvenient if a transaction is delayed or 
declined until a bank gets answers to their questions. But I dont find that Co-op did anything 
wrong in raising further queries. Its in all our interests that security checks are enforced to 
reduce the likelihood of banks and their customers becoming victims of fraud. 
I do acknowledge Mr T feels the questions are intrusive, particularly as its funds which are in 
an account for which he is one of the joint account holders. But, I dont think the questions 
being asked are unreasonable given that Co-op do have regulatory obligations and their 
policy to ask questions in such circumstances adds a layer of protection. Taking this all into 
account, I dont think Co-op have acted unfairly in taking the steps they have, and I dont 
think its unreasonable for them to ask Mr T to attend a branch. I do acknowledge Mr T says 
he has injured his leg but, given that he didnt provide responses to Co-ops questions, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Co-op to ask Mr T to attend a branch to verify his identity 
and address. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman