DRN-2129114
The complaint
Mr C complains about the sale of a short-term income protection policy by ActiveQuote 
Limited.
What happened
On 27 October 2018, Mr C took out the policy through ActiveQuote. The policy started on 29 
October 2018.
A few days later, Mr C was involved in an accident and had to stop work. He made a claim 
under the policy, which the insurer accepted. A few months later, the insurer became aware 
that Mr C hadnt disclosed some material information in his application form. It said if it had 
known that information, it wouldve postponed his application for 12 months. The insurer 
avoided the policy (cancelled from the start) and asked Mr C to repay the claim payments 
hed received. 
Mr C brought a complaint to this service about ActiveQuote. He said hed made ActiveQuote 
aware of his medical condition when taking out the policy. He also complained that 
ActiveQuote had arranged for the policy to start when he hadnt given it consent to do so. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought ActiveQuote had 
asked Mr C the relevant questions about his health, and so hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information the insurer says that Mr C didnt disclose was that hed experienced back 
pain for six months before taking out the policy, that this was affecting all of his activities, 
and that hed seen a chiropractor about this a few days before completing the application. 
Mr C says he did tell ActiveQuote about his back problem. 
Ive therefore listened to the phone calls.
The first call took place on 26 October 2018. Mr C and the adviser discussed the various 
policy options available to him. The adviser then asked if Mr C had been to see his doctor in 
the last five years. Mr C said hed been to see his doctor a few months earlier for back pain. 
When the adviser asked for some more information about this, Mr C explained that he was 
waiting to see a chiropractor. Later in the call, Mr C said he hadnt been honest before and 
that hed had further back pain three years earlier. The adviser said the insurer may put an 
exclusion on the policy for his back, but they wouldnt know this until the application had 
been completed and submitted.
The following day, Mr C spoke with a different adviser at ActiveQuote to go through the 
application. The adviser explained that the questions needed to be answered truthfully and 
accurately, and if he didnt do so then a claim could be declined. The adviser also made Mr 
C aware that any discloses hed made the previous day to her colleague would need to be 
disclosed again. Mr C understood. 
The adviser then went through the medical questions on the application with Mr C. She 
asked if in the last five years, hed suffered from any back or neck conditions. Mr C said he 
had two herniated discs that were treated successfully in 2014. The adviser said So it 
wasnt this year that you saw a doctor for your back, no? Mr C replied No I sorted out my 
back in 2014. They had a further discussion about his previous back pain, and Mr C said 
the pain had also affected his left leg in the sciatic nerve. He also confirmed that hed 
experienced the pain for about two weeks. When the adviser asked if he still experienced 
pain, Mr C said no. 
Im satisfied that the adviser asked Mr C about his back pain. Although he told her about his 
previous back pain from 2014, he didnt disclose that he was still experiencing back pain at 
the time of the application, or that hed seen a doctor a few months earlier for his back, or 
that hed seen a chiropractor a few days earlier. I think he was given sufficient opportunity to 
disclose this information to the adviser.
I therefore agree with the investigator that ActiveQuote asked Mr C the questions that the 
insurer wanted to know, and he failed to tell it the relevant information. ActiveQuote had 
made Mr C aware that a claim may not be paid if he didnt answer the questions accurately, 
and so he knew the potential impact of this.
Mr C has also complained that ActiveQuote arranged the policy without his permission. I see 
the adviser had arranged for the policy to have an immediate start date. However, later in 
the call, Mr C advised that he wanted to see the terms before it started. ActiveQuote 
therefore did make a mistake by not updating the application to reflect this.
Nevertheless, ActiveQuote has explained that it spoke with Mr C a few days later, and once 
it had confirmed to him the insurer would cover his back condition (based on the information 
given in the application), he wanted to go ahead with the cover. I think if Mr C didnt want to 
do so, he couldve cancelled the policy within the cooling-off period. He didnt do so, and 
instead made a claim under the policy. Im therefore satisfied that ActiveQuotes error didnt 
financially disadvantage him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman