DRN-4196546
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint relates to two telephone calls he made to TSB Bank plc to arrange for his 
bank account to be unblocked.
Mr M says the person he spoke to insinuated he was a liar, and his complaint was not 
logged properly. 
What happened
TSB Bank plc noted several transactions that suggested there was suspicious activity on Mr 
Ms account, so they blocked it. They then sent him a message to advise that one of the 
payments was under review, that they would be in contact with him about it, but that he 
could call them on a specific number should he wish to do so in the interim.
Mr M called TSB to discuss the matter. That call is the subject of this complaint. Mr M feels 
that the person he spoke to suggested that he was a liar. He ended the call before TSB was 
able to establish whether the block should be lifted. He then called back later that evening 
following which TSB were able to satisfy themselves that the transactions and payment Mr M 
was trying to make, were genuine. TSB have said that because Mr M tried to make a 
payment between the two calls taking place, his subsequent attempt to make it again didnt 
go through after the second call because this attempt was linked to the previous one. Mr M 
says this meant he had to call back again, following which the block was properly lifted.
Mr Ms specific complaint points relate to the handling of the first call, the fact that TSB didnt 
address this within the complaint he made and the length of time he had to wait to speak to 
the representative. He wants TSB to pay him £50 to represent the cost of his time on hold, 
an apology from the representative he spoke to in the first call and for her to be retrained. He 
also wants her to be considered for disciplinary action for bringing TSB into disrepute and for 
TSB to promise to be more professional in future.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Mr M 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue I need to determine is whether TSB treated Mr M unfairly in some way. Having 
considered the transactions on Mr Ms account that led to his account being blocked and the 
subsequent call recordings of the calls he had with TSB, I dont think they did anything 
wrong. TSB are entitled to monitor the transactions on a customers account to prevent 
fraud. In this case the transactions that led to Mr Ms account being blocked were unusual. 
There were 20 payments for 5p each being paid out to the same business which wasnt in 
line with the type of activity that was usual for his account. Based on this, TSB sought to 
establish whether the activity and the subsequent payment Mr M wanted to make from his 
account were genuine. Thats in line with what I would expect to see in these circumstances. 
In order to do that, he was asked a series of questions.
I dont intend to repeat the questions asked and Mr Ms answers here, but its clear to me 
from listening to the recording of the first call that his answers were evasive at best and 
hostile at worst. Indeed, Mr M later accepted there was hostility in the answers he gave 
because he was waiting on hold for a period of time before he was able to speak to a 
representative and therefore felt frustrated. Whilst that might have been the case, the 
purpose of the call was to establish if the transactions were legitimate with a view to 
protecting the account. Given the answers he gave to the questions asked and the manner 
in which those answers were given, Im think its reasonable that TSB wouldnt have lifted 
the block on his account until such time that they were able to establish the transactions 
were legitimate by verifying them. So, I dont think TSB did anything wrong here and Im not 
satisfied that the representative Mr M spoke to treated him unfairly given the answers he 
gave and the manner in which he gave them. Whether the answers he gave were true, is 
immaterial. Without the context he gave in the later call- namely that he had bought 20 sim 
cards costing 5p each and intended to throw them in the bin because he was trying to 
benefit from TSBs switching offer by making several debit card transactions- his answers 
provided no explanation of the activity on the account that TSB was questioning. 
Mr M is also unhappy that TSB didnt address this specific complaint point in its final 
response letter and that he had to call back again after he thought the block was lifted from 
his account. I accept that TSB didnt deal specifically with his complaint point about the 
content of the first call he had with them. I agree that TSB should have addressed this, but 
for the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think it wouldve made any difference to the outcome 
of his complaint. And although I understand it was inconvenient for Mr M to make a few calls 
to TSB to get the block lifted, even after he thought it had been, and wait on hold, this 
appears to have been because he was still trying to make a payment when the block was in 
place. So, an extra layer of protection was built in by TSB, which was intended to protect him 
from fraud. Balancing that against the time it took him to clarify the transactions were 
legitimate, along with the fact that he could well have provided clearer more cordial answers 
which would have resulted in the block being lifted sooner, I dont think I can say TSB did 
anything wrong.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman