DRN-1462843
 
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by Mr P in January 1995. The 
policy was added to Mr Ps credit card during a meeting in one of Halifaxs branches. The 
policy and card ended in October 2002.
Mr P says Halifax mis-sold the PPI policy. In recent submissions to our service he has put 
forward several points and I would like to assure him that I have considered everything he 
has said carefully. In summary Mr P has said the following:
Halifax had a duty of care to ensure the policy was suitable for his needs.
He had other means to make payment on his credit card so the policy was 
unsuitable.
He is clear that he did not need the policy at the time. 
He cannot remember having the insurance and believes it was added without his 
knowledge.
Mr P also adds comments passed onto him by a banking employee about how he 
remembers PPI was sold at the time.
He also makes comments about the credit agreement and how the information within 
it is laid out. 
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr P's complaint and has replied to his complaint. Mr 
P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the following reasons:
I am persuaded Halifax made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it. I say this because, although I cant be sure what was discussed between 
the parties during the meeting, I can see from the application form provided by 
Halifax that PPI was presented as an optional requirement. There is a tick box in a 
separate section for 'credit care' that has been ticked. Mr P has signed the form 
accepting what has been completed within it. 
Mr P says PPI was added without his knowledge, but his recollections of the meeting 
are not detailed in any way. This is completely understandable as it took place many 
years ago. So when I consider this and also what I have seen in the application form, 
on balance, I think that Mr P was more likely than not given a choice to have PPI in 
the meeting.
 
As I have concluded on the balance of probabilities that Mr P was given a choice to 
have the PPI, I now need to consider whether he was given advice about the policy 
or whether he was just given information to decided whether he wanted it. Based on 
what I know of sales carried out at that time by Halifax, I think it recommended the 
PPI to Mr P in the meeting, so because of this it had to check if the policy was 
suitable for him. Halifax also had to ensure that the information it gave Mr P was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed choice about the 
insurance. 
 
Mr P says that he had enough means so the policy was not suitable for him. But 
when I look at Mr Ps circumstances at the time, I think the policy was. Mr P says he 
had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay along with less than 3 months savings. 
So although Mr P had good benefits I am persuaded that for any extended period of 
sickness or unemployment, the benefit provided by the policy would have been of 
some use to him. He could have claimed benefit in addition to using his provisions, 
and this would have been useful in a time of need. He also could have claimed 
benefit over a longer period. I couldn't find any other reason why the policy would be 
unsuitable for Mr P either such as a restrictive or limiting term.
 
Im not sure if the costs were clearly disclosed to Mr P. But I think he wouldve taken 
the policy anyway even if they were for the reasons already given. The PPI policy 
was competitively priced and affordable.  
 
In a recent submission, Mr P gave some additional comments about the lay out of the form, 
and that he had to sign further up and then go on to tick for PPI in a later section. I have 
looked at the application form and I think the section for PPI (section 12) is clearly laid out on 
the form and is separate from where Mr P has signed. And is also in a separate section to 
where the additional card holder signed too.  
Mr P also gave an example of how PPI could have been mis-sold and said he had obtained 
the information from a banking employee. But Mr P hasn't recollected that this is what 
happened in the meeting in 1995, only that this is the sort of thing that happened at that 
time. I haven't seen enough evidence that what Mr P was describing happened in his case 
either. 
I have looked into Mr P's case and considered the complaint on its own merits looking at the 
documentation provided, both parties recollections of the sale and also what I know of 
Halifax's sales at that time. I have used that evidence to draw my conclusion. 
I know it will be a disappointment for Mr P and I acknowledge the amount of time he has 
taken to put forward his case, but for the reasons i have given above, I don't uphold his 
complaint. my decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman