DRN-4473694
The complaint
Mr M complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. declined claims he made on his employers group 
income protection policy.  
Mr M is represented but Ill refer to all submissions as being made by Mr M. 
What happened
Mr M has been absent from work since June 2019. A few months previously his wife was 
diagnosed with cancer and has sadly since died. 
Mr M claimed on his employers group income protection policy, but the claim was declined 
on the basis that there was limited evidence that Mr M was incapacitated during the deferred 
period of the policy. Mr M appealed but Metlife maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Mr M made a further claim on the policy which Metlife also declined because Mr M hadnt 
been working immediately prior to the claim being made. So, Mr M complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Metlife had fairly concluded that the policy definition of incapacity wasnt met, based on the 
available medical evidence relating to the deferred period. And he also thought theyd fairly 
relied on the policy terms when declining to consider the new claim as Mr M hadnt been 
performing his occupation since 2019. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, Mr M said 
he didnt know what symptoms to look out for with depression and its only now that he 
understands he was suffering with stress, anxiety and depression from the beginning. He 
also highlighted the policy definition of incapacity and that his sleep, concentration and 
motivation were all significantly impaired. He feels there is enough evidence to support the 
claim.
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this complaint and the financial impact on Mr M. I 
appreciate its been a very distressing and worrying time for him. I empathise with what 
he has said and would like to offer my condolences to him. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Metlife has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for Mr M to 
demonstrate that hes got a valid claim, not for Metlife to show that he doesnt. 
The policy defines a member as incapacitated if: 
- They are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material and substantial 
duties required of them in their own occupation which they were performing 
immediately prior to being incapacitated; and 
- Are not following any other occupation; and 
- Are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material or substantial duties of 
any other reasonable occupation to which they are suited by reason of training, 
experience or education.  
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Metlife to conclude that the policy definition of 
incapacity wasnt met during the deferred period.
Theres limited evidence of Mr Ms ability to work in the contemporary medical notes. 
Theres a note from July 2019 referring to stress at home due to the recent diagnosis 
of Mr Ms partner with cancer and the GP having a supportive chat. A medical 
certificate was issued. Theres a similar note in December 2019. But theres no 
detailed contemporary evidence of Mr Ms functionality and how his mental health 
condition was impacting on his ability to work. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about why he referred to stress and not 
depression during the deferred period. But the medical evidence doesnt support that 
during the deferred period Mr M was suffering with a mental health condition to the 
extent that it would have prevented him from working. 
Mr Ms employer contacted Metlife about making a further claim. Metlife explained 
that Mr M hadnt been working in his occupation since 2019. So, he wouldnt have 
been working immediately prior to this further claim for incapacity. I think this was 
reasonable as thats set out in the policy terms Ive outlined above. 
Im satisfied that Metlife have fairly reconsidered the medical evidence, including 
more recent developments in Mr Ms mental health and other supporting information. 
However, this doesnt give a detailed or meaningful insight into the relevant time 
which is the deferred period. So, I dont think Metlife are unreasonable to maintain 
their decision to decline the claim.    
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman