DRN-3372623
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse her for a cheque paid out of her 
account, which she says was made under duress. Shed like the cheque to be refunded.
What happened
Mrs B has a current account with Lloyds. In 2018 she agreed to lend her neighbour some 
money. She wrote a cheque for £45,000 from her Lloyds account. When writing out the 
cheque she wrote out the amount as forty five pounds in the wording section, but £45,000 
in the numerical section. The cheque however cleared and was paid to the neighbour.
Later the neighbour moved away, and hadnt repaid Mrs B. When she attempted to get in 
touch with them, they told her shed given it to them as a gift. 
In 2020 she got in touch with Lloyds to see if she could reclaim the cheque. Lloyds checked 
with the receiving bank, but the money had already been spent by then. Mrs B highlighted 
the discrepancy in the amounts on the cheque and complained that it shouldnt have been 
allowed to clear.
Lloyds looked into what happened but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said 
that under industry-wide procedures verifying the cheque is the responsibility of the receiving 
bank. They didnt feel theyd made any errors in their handling of Mrs Bs cheque. They also 
suggested Mrs B report the matter to the police.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs B referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened but didnt think Lloyds should be responsible for 
refunding the money. They agreed that the responsibility lied with the receiving bank who 
had received the cheque.
Mrs B disagreed. She said that shortly before writing the cheque she had been in a serious 
accident, so was taking strong medication at the time. Her neighbours had pressured her in 
to giving them the cheque. She said she wrote the value on the cheque wrong deliberately 
so that Lloyds would contact her so she could tell them not to proceed.
The investigator didnt think this changed anything  in this scenario Mrs B would still have 
had the opportunity to cancel the cheque before it cleared or report the matter to the bank 
earlier than she did.
Because no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything Im sorry to say that I dont think Lloyds need to do anything 
further. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs B, but Ill explain why.
Firstly, its not disputed that Mrs B wrote and signed the cheque. And the cheque is a valid 
instruction for Lloyds to pay the neighbour the £45,000 they had discussed.
I do however appreciate that the written value on the cheque is different from the numerical 
value. Lloyds have said that the responsibility for checking this would lie with the receiving 
bank. But Lloyds will have received an image of the cheque for verification purposes. So, its 
possible that Lloyds could have picked up on this, and asked Mrs B about it.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about writing the value out wrong deliberately to alert 
Lloyds to the issue. But overall, Im not convinced this is a plausible scenario.
Mrs B has said she was confused because of the medication, so it doesnt seem likely to me 
that shed have the presence of mind to deliberately write on the cheque with a different, but 
very similar, value in the hope the bank contact her. A more straightforward scenario would 
be to contact the bank before the cheque clears to cancel it. 
I also have to bear in mind this isnt what she originally told Lloyds. In the original reporting it 
appears to be alleged that the cheque was altered from £45 to £45,000. But later Mrs B said 
she had lent the neighbour the £45,000 on a verbal promise to repay it. And once they 
moved away, they reneged on this agreement. This is more consistent with Mrs B not 
reporting the issue straight away to Lloyds, instead waiting over two years.
In this case I think its more likely than not that at the time Mrs B wrote the cheque, she was 
intending on paying her neighbour £45,000. I think its likely the writing of forty five pounds 
was likely just a mistake, and had it been questioned by Lloyds Mrs B would still have 
agreed for the payment to be made. 
From Lloyds internal notes I cant see that were aware of any duress Mrs B may have been 
under at the time. In fact, I can see several interactions between her and the bank between 
the time the cheque was written, and the problem reported. This strongly suggests to me 
that is was only later she realised that she was unlikely to be repaid.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs B has faced, and that she may have been taken 
advantage of by her former neighbour. I sympathise with this and realise it must be 
incredibly upsetting for her. But in this case, I dont consider it fair to ask Lloyds to refund the 
cheque. They followed a valid payment instruction from Mrs B for a payment she intended to 
make at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman