DRN-2820711
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the standard of communication sent by Gatehouse Bank Plc.
What happened
Miss R opened two accounts with Gatehouse. Following the account openings, Miss R 
received welcome letters from Gatehouse in which she felt the information wasnt presented 
in a clear manner. Miss R wasnt happy about this, or that she hadnt received any emails 
from Gatehouse since completing the online applications, so she made a complaint.
Gatehouse looked at Miss Rs complaint. They noted that they had sent emails to Miss R but 
took on board what Miss R had said and explained that they would take account of this as 
part of their continuous improvement. Miss R wasnt satisfied with Gatehouses response 
and felt that a payment of compensation was merited. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Gatehouses response to 
Miss Rs complaint was reasonable, and they didnt feel that any payment of compensation 
to Miss R was warranted in this instance. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the welcome letters sent by Gatehouse that Miss R has complained about, 
I find it difficult to share Miss Rs conclusion that these letters are of a poor standard. Miss R 
has stated that she feels that there was nothing within these two letters to distinguish which 
of her accounts was an ISA account and which was not. But one of the letters has 
information about ISA transfers, whereas the other letter does not, and I must note that if 
Miss R continued to be confused, she could have learned the status of each account by 
logging on to the account using the information provided in the letters.
Miss R has also expressed her dissatisfaction that she hadnt received any email 
correspondence from Gatehouse following the account openings. But Gatehouse have been 
able to demonstrate that email correspondence was sent to the email address registered by 
Miss R on her accounts, and so its unclear why these emails werent received by Miss R.
Ultimately, I feel that Gatehouses response to Miss R complaint, including the apology for 
any inconvenience caused and the promise to take Miss Rs comments into account as part 
of their continuous improvement, does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what 
happened here. And while I understand that Miss R feels that some form of compensation is 
warranted in this instance, Im afraid that this isnt an opinion that I share.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss R was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Gatehouse to take any further action at this time. I hope 
that Miss R can understand, given what I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman