DRN-2822391
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) immediately closed accounts 
he had opened with them in February 2021. He is also unhappy he didnt promptly receive 
the debit card for the account and with the service he received when he called to raise this. 
What happened
Mr T opened a savings and current account on 8 February 2021. However, he didnt receive 
the debit card and called Nationwide on 19 February to explain this and raise a complaint. 
The call handler explained shed re-ordered it. There were further telephone calls and Mr T 
also raised a complaint about the service hed received during these calls. 
 
Nationwide wrote to Mr T on 22 February 2021 and confirmed they were closing the 
accounts he had opened. They referred to their previous decision not to provide him with an 
account which had been made in 2019. Mr T was unhappy and contacted Nationwide about 
this.
 
Nationwide also responded to both complaints in two separate letters on 23 February 2021. 
They didnt uphold the complaint about the debit card. They said theyd sent it to his current 
address. In respect of their customer service, they apologised for one instance in which the 
call handler hadnt spoken to Mr T in line with their expectations. 
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. In the investigators view, Nationwide 
hadnt done anything wrong and she didnt ask them to do anything differently to resolve the 
complaint. Mr T didnt accept this view. Therefore, the case passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure  2021 
In response to the investigators view, Mr T says Nationwide didnt inform him that he 
couldnt open an account. Also, that he was left without a bank account at the height of the 
pandemic and he was in a desperate situation. 
Its important to consider the correspondence from 2019 in order to decide whether 
Nationwide reasonably informed Mr T. Nationwide have provided a copy of their letter dated 
27 February 2019 and I can see it was addressed to Mr T. They provided notice of the 
closure of his account and their reasons for doing so. They also explained why they felt they 
were acting within the terms and conditions.
 
Also in the letter, Nationwide explained that they do check their records and should he open 
a new account, then they would close it without any prior notice. Therefore, they reasonably 
informed Mr T what would happen if he opened an account with them in the future. 
I appreciate Mr T says he didnt receive the correspondence. But Nationwide have also 
provided letters they wrote on 4 March and 13 August 2019. The letters refer to him having 
contacted them about their decision. Ive also checked the accuracy of Mr Ts address on the 
correspondence. Overall, Im satisfied this correspondence was sent and Nationwide 
informed Mr T that they wouldnt provide him with an account. 
 
Ive also reviewed the letter dated 22 February 2021. I can see that Nationwide wrote to Mr T 
and explained they were closing his recently opened accounts. They explained that they had 
several calls and letters back with him in 2019 which made it clear they were ending their 
relationship with him. They explained that they had a duty to take care of the welfare of their 
staff. 
Im content Nationwide were clear about their reasons here. But Ive also reviewed the terms 
and conditions and can see they set out the conditions for when they could close the 
account. This included where behaviour had been unreasonable. Therefore, Im satisfied 
they were acting within these terms when they closed the accounts in February 2021. 
 
I appreciate Mr T feels strongly that Nationwide acted unfairly because he was left without 
banking facilities during the global pandemic. However, Im not persuaded they were unfair. 
Theyd previously communicated their decision to Mr T and explained what would happen if 
he did try to open an account with them. Therefore, Im not persuaded theyve done anything 
wrong here. 
Customer Service 
Ive listened to the calls between 20 and 23 February 2021. I can see that Mr T called to 
chase his complaint on 20 February. I appreciate Mr T was very unhappy that he didnt get 
put through to the complaints team or a manager as he had requested. But Im of the view 
that it was reasonable for the call handler to confirm his complaint had been logged and he 
needed to wait to hear from the complaints team. At this point, only a day had passed since 
hed made the complaint and so it wasnt unreasonable that he hadnt yet received a 
response.
Mr T was also told the same by the different call handlers he spoke to over the next couple 
of days. He also logged another complaint about the service. Having listened to the calls, Im 
not persuaded it was unreasonable that they told him to wait for the complaints team as only 
a short time had passed since he complained. His complaints were responded to on 23 
February 2021. Also, Ive considered that some of the calls were terminated but Im not 
persuaded the call handlers were wrong to do this in the circumstances and based on the 
conversations which were had with Mr T. 
However, in response to Mr Ts complaint Nationwide accepted that on one occasion their 
call handler didnt speak to Mr T in the way they would have expected. They apologised for 
this. Having listened to the call, Im satisfied their response appropriately addresses the 
issue here as I can understand the call had become difficult for both parties. Therefore, I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further. 
Debit Card 
I understand Mr T didnt receive a debit card as promptly as hed expected after trying to 
open the account on 8 February 2021. I havent seen a copy of the letter to show that the debit card was sent, but I understand Mr T did receive the letter which contained his 
personal identification number.
 
As he didnt receive the card, he telephoned Nationwide to get one re-ordered. The call 
handler confirmed that it had previously been sent to the address held for him. But she 
requested that a new one was sent. Nationwide have explained this was cancelled after 
realising they had previously decided not to provide an account to Mr T. 
I appreciate Mr T doesnt feel Nationwide sent him a debit card promptly and I can see he 
engaged in several telephone calls with them about this. I havent seen evidence to show 
when exactly a card was sent. But, as previously explained, Mr T had been informed of 
Nationwides decision not to provide banking services with him and he was informed they 
would close any accounts he tried to open with immediate effect. As they had reasonably 
explained this, Im not persuaded there has been any impact here because Nationwide 
wouldnt have provided banking services regardless of whether a debit card had been sent.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman