DRN-2923881
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Miss C has been represented during this complaint but for ease, and because Miss C is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to her in this decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they are durable 
and if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking 
into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 46,000 miles when it was supplied to Miss 
C. So, I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present, but I 
dont think a reasonable person would think this car had been suitably durable.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless MotoNovo can demonstrate otherwise. 
Im persuaded this car had a fault within the first six months as I can see the dealership 
looked at an issue with the knock sensor in that timescale. In the absence of any evidence 
that fault wasnt present at the point of supply I think the dealership should have repaired the 
sensor and not offered to simply pay for the labour. 
It seems that the business explained it was okay to drive the car with that problem but that 
cant be right as, unresolved, it seems likely the Engine Management Light would come on 
again and the car would not pass an MOT in that condition. Indeed, the car failed its MOT for 
that reason in February 2020.
The relevant legislation expects repairs to be completed in a reasonable timescale and as 
this early problem wasnt repaired and remained a problem I think MotoNovo should have 
allowed Miss C to reject the car when she complained to them in April 2020.
And, even if Im wrong about that, I think there are other reasons this car should have been 
rejected. Thats because I dont think its been suitably durable.
MotoNovo have explained that the frequency of timing chain replacements is specified by 
the manufacturer as 90,000 miles or 9 years and, as the car hadnt reached that point when 
the timing chain needed replacing, it seems it failed prematurely and hadnt proven durable.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car to experience such significant engine 
issues after it had only completed 59,000 miles. I think that would also suggest the car 
hadnt proven to be suitably durable.
Whilst I understand MotoNovos point that the car was not MOTd on time I dont think I have 
sufficient evidence to suggest it was this delay that led to the engine failure or that the 
delayed MOT suggests this was a car that hadnt been looked after properly. Afterall, Miss C 
has provided evidence it was serviced correctly.
Its unfortunate that this car has subsequently been written off and I understand that has 
denied MotoNovo the opportunity to arrange an independent inspection to clarify the source 
of the issues. But, on balance, I think there is enough evidence to suggest this car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
So, Ill go on to consider how MotoNovo should put things right for Miss C.  
Putting things right
MotoNovo should refund Miss Cs deposit that was made in the form of a part exchanged car 
valued at £1,900. But, as there will be a surplus of £677.87 once the insurance has settled 
this agreement I think its fair to deduct that from the deposit as its unreasonable for Miss C 
to profit from this issue. So, MotoNovo will need to refund £1,222.13 of the deposit and 
theyll need to add 8% interest to that refund as Miss C has been deprived of that money.
As the car was taken off the road in June 2020 MotoNovo should refund any payments 
made from that point. Theyll need to add interest to that refund as well and for the same 
reasons.
Miss C paid £725 to have the timing chain and cover gasket replaced. Im not persuaded 
there is evidence this work didnt need to be completed and, as it was recommended and 
completed by a qualified mechanic Im persuaded it is likely it was necessary. As Im 
persuaded that the timing chain needed replacement prematurely I think it is fair to tell 
MotoNovo to refund the cost of £725 Miss C incurred for this work and to add interest to that 
refund as shes been deprived of the money. MotoNovo should also refund the £176 Miss C paid for a diagnostic to evidence the issues 
she was experiencing as I dont think that diagnostic would have been necessary if the car 
had been of satisfactory quality. They should, again, add interest to that refund.
Im not asking MotoNovo to make a payment for distress and inconvenience. Thats because 
Ive not seen evidence of distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C but only to her 
representative who MotoNovo do not have a financial relationship with.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund £1,222.13 of the deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any payments made since June 2020 in respect of lack of use and add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund the £725 Miss C paid to have the timing chain and cover gasket replaced and 
the £176 she spent on a diagnostic. MotoNovo should add 8% simple interest per 
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Miss Cs credit file in 
relation to these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman