DRN-3418642
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund money he lost, which he 
believes was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
 
In August 2021, Mr B has said he saw an advert for an opportunity to invest in crypto 
currency, that said that an investment of £1,000 would return a profit of £300 within a week.  
Mr B has said he entered details into a companys website to register his interest, following 
which hes told us he was contacted by the company to discuss the opportunity. 
Mr B has said he carried out some research into the company. Persuaded that things 
seemed legitimate he agreed to download an application on his mobile device, to allow the 
company remote access to his device. This was so that the company could show him its 
portfolio and figures and so that he could start the investment.  
Mr B has said the company then showed him the trading platform and went into more detail 
about the services it could provide. Mr B has said he was asked to set up an account with a 
crypto exchange and to deposit a down payment of £180, which he did. Hes said he told the 
company he would think about things before investing further. Mr B has said he didnt invest 
at this point, but the company continued to contact him until November 2021 offering their 
services.
 
Mr B has said he suspected hed been scammed when, also in November 2021, he received 
a communication from the crypto currency exchange, confirming that a debit had been made 
on his account, but he hadnt made any withdrawals. Mr B has said this led him to check 
things further, where he found the following payments had been made from his Nationwide 
account, to his crypto exchange account;
12 August 2021 £10,000
13 August 2021 £10,000
8 September 2021 £10,000
8 September 2021 £10,000
Mr B says he was unaware these payments had been made and he didnt authorise them. 
Hes said he tried to contact the company he had been communicating with, but he didnt 
receive a response. So he raised the matter with Nationwide.
Nationwide looked into Mr Bs complaint and issued its final response on 17 December 2021 
not upholding it. In summary, this was because Nationwide said there was no plausible 
explanation for how these payments were authorised without Mr Bs knowledge. It said this 
because, although an application was installed on his phone to allow remote access, it didnt 
explain how Mr Bs card, PIN and pass number had been used to set the payee up, when 
hed confirmed nobody else knew these. Nationwide said it did chase the funds with the 
beneficiary bank (the bank to which the money was sent) and was able to recover £93.47, 
which was returned to Mr Bs account. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response Mr B then brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary this was 
because she was satisfied, having considered the evidence, that Mr B had authorised the 
payments. Alongside this, our investigator didnt think Mr B had provided enough information 
to show he had been the victim of a scam.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether I think Mr B authorised the transactions. Mr B has 
repeatedly told Nationwide and this service that he didnt authorise them. Generally, 
Nationwide can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised the transactions himself.
Ive thought about this carefully and, in the circumstances of this case, the weight of 
evidence that is available to me suggests that Mr B did authorise and consent to the 
payments. I say that for the following reasons:
- The transactions were made using a device and IP address that had been used on 
Mr Bs account, on numerous occasions, in the past for genuine transactions.
- The user ID used for the transactions was consistent with genuine payments both 
before and after the disputed transactions.
- Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Bs genuine security details 
were used to make the disputed transactions. Im mindful Mr B has said he allowed 
remote access to his account by a third party. But Mr Bs genuine card and PIN were 
used to authorise the payee being set up through his digital banking. Mr B has said 
that no one else has access to his card, knows his PIN or knows his digital banking 
pass-number. So I cant see how a third-party would have been able to make the 
payments, without Mr Bs card, PIN, pass-number or digital banking security details.
- Im persuaded the activity on Mr Bs account, after the disputed transactions were 
made, indicates he would have been aware of the transactions before he raised the 
matter with Nationwide in November 2021. I say that as Mr B continued to use the 
account for purchases and carried out both balance and statement enquiries. Given 
the amounts that had been paid, I think it more likely than not that if Mr B hadnt 
authorised or consented to them, he would have been concerned about his depleted 
account balance and about transactions he didnt recognise. With this, I think he 
would have been keen to contact Nationwide much sooner than he did.Overall, based on the evidence and Mr Bs account of events, Ive not seen any feasible or 
credible evidence to support a conclusion that someone else made the payments. As Im 
persuaded Mr B authorised the payments, Nationwide can hold him liable for them.
Im mindful that Mr B considers he has lost this money as a result of a scam. But considering 
his submissions to both Nationwide and this service, strongly contradict my findings, that Im 
persuaded he did authorise the payments, in the absence of any other evidence I cant 
safely conclude that Mr B has fallen victim to a scam.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman