DRN-3885167
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative (B) that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her complaint under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased on 10 
September 2014.
The complaint has been set up in Mr Ms name alone as it was his credit card account (albeit 
by Mrs M using her card on that account) that was used to fund the purchase. I acknowledge 
that the holiday product was purchased in Mr and Mrs Ms names.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M say they contracted with the supplier, S, to arrange the sale of their previous 
timesharei. They also say that they signed a purchase agreement on 10 September 2014 
that offered them one week of holiday accommodation in the Canary Islands and the choice 
of one week of holiday accommodation in Europe or elsewhere in the world. The total cash 
price looks like it was £5,000  £2,500 of which Mr M paid using his credit card at the time of 
sale.  
In addition to entering into the purchase agreement, Mr and Mr M also signed a form for a 
free gift of 5 European holidays. 
Mr and Mr M say that they applied for a holiday on 14 August 2016. But as it was only 
available to persons between the ages of 25 and 65, they didnt qualify as they were both 
over that age in August 2016.   So, they say that they have not received any benefit from the 
contract signed with S because holidays are not available to them given their age.
Barclays says it never received a complaint from Mr and Mr M about S, though it did receive 
complaints about two other companies that they had instructed (without success) to deal 
with relinquishing their existing timeshare. B says that it had lodged a specific complaint 
about S on 4 December 2017. But Barclays says it never received such a letter. So, it 
opened a new complaint in March 2019 and offered Mr and Mr M a payment of £100 to the 
reflect the time it had taken to register their complaint about S. And as far as I can see, it 
received all the evidence sent to us by B, however it hasnt formally responded to the 
complaint.
An investigator reviewed the complaint. He said that although the terms and conditions 
supplied by B demonstrated that a prospective holiday to be provided by a third party (GT) 
wasnt available to persons over the age of 65, those terms appeared to be linked to a 
holiday application in 2016 rather than the contract signed in 2014. And as its not clear what  
the age limit in question had to do with Mr Ms ability to use the holiday club Mr and Mrs M 
joined in 2014, he didnt think Barclaycard had to do anything to put things right in this 
complaint
B didnt agree and sent us further documents that it asserts prove Mr Ms claim.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision concerns solely the sale of the timeshare to Mr and Mr M, rather than any 
allegations concerning their desire to relinquish the timeshare, which has been dealt with 
elsewhere. I understand that1 B managed to relinquish Mr and Mr Ms existing timeshare in 
2018. 
Mr Ms claim is brought under s75 CCA. This essentially sets out that a borrower under a 
credit agreement has equal rights against the lender as against the supplier in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
It hasnt been made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs Ms claim is under s75 CCA, but I think it 
reasonable to consider it as a claim for a breach of contract i.e. that Mr and Mr M entered 
into a contract that the supplier couldnt perform i.e. in supplying holidays.
Mr and Mrs M signed a document headed Application for the exclusivity of [S] Travel- that 
recites that a deposit was paid of £2,500. Mr Ms credit card statement shows a payment to 
S of just over that figure on 10 September 2014. That document was accompanied by some 
terms and conditions, but those dont mention an age limit. At the same time they signed a 
document headed European Holidays which stated I/we request to receive the free gift of 
5 European holidays. Ive seen no other evidence that Mr and Mr M took up the free holiday 
offer or applied for a holiday until 2016.
On 14 August 2016, having received a voucher from S, Mr and Mr M applied for a holiday 
using a form headed Golden TC Holiday reservation. B has sent to us some further terms 
and conditions which appear to relate to that reservation application. These state: The 
holiday is open to home owning couples, married (or co-habiting for three years or more) 
with members in gainful employment and whose joint income exceeds £20,000 pa, between 
the ages of twenty-five and sixty-five. As Mr and Mr M were both retired and over the age of 
65 it would appear that they werent eligible to take up that holiday. 
But I think that those later terms and conditions only apply to the holiday relating to the 
voucher, since they say the offer is not transferable in whole or in part and may only be 
used by the recipient family once. I havent seen any other evidence from the time of the 
2016 holiday application which confirmed that Mr and Mr M werent eligible to take up the 
holiday. Nor have I seen any other evidence that the holiday club wasnt available to Mr and 
Mr M at all or that they attempted to book a different holiday.
From the evidence Ive seen the holiday product appeared to offer exclusive deals on 
holidays and a certain number of free holidays. B has only shown to us that Mr and Mr M 
attempted to make a reservation for a holiday pursuant to an offer on one occasion but didnt 
(or werent able to) take up the holiday offered. So I cant say that S was in breach of 
contract, and as a result I cant uphold the complaint that Barclays failed to deal with the 
claim under s75 CCA.
So far as Barclays actually dealing with the complaint, is concerned, it did acknowledge 
delays in March 2019 and offered £100 for the inconvenience and delay. Regrettably the 
matter was unable to be dealt with by us at that time, so Barclays further review of the 
complaint hasnt taken place. Out investigator put it to B that it could continue to assert the 
claim against Barclays under s75 CCA, but B chose to refer the matter to an ombudsman. I think for the delays in setting up the complaint in respect of S, that Barclays offer of £100 is 
reasonable. If Mr M wants to take up that offer he, or B should contact Barclays directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman