DRN-2856924
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected a direct debit she set up which led to a 
negative marker on her credit file. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs A set up a direct debit from her Everyday Saver Account to make payments 
to third party, S, to pay off a debt. She said soon after setting it up she left the UK for three 
months to take care of her mother abroad. She said she wasnt worried about the direct debit 
because she had plenty of funds in the account. She also had a current account with enough 
funds. 
Mrs A said while she was outside the UK she was unaware the direct debit was being 
declined by Barclays. Consequently payments were not made and her debt with S was 
passed to a debt collector. Mrs A said as soon as she became aware of the default on her 
credit report she paid up the full debt balance. 
Mrs A complained to Barclays. She asked for the default to be removed. In its final response 
Barclays said the direct debit had been set up from her Everyday Saver account and as a 
result an automatic default marker had been placed on her account. It went on to say that as 
the default marker had been applied by S it was unable to remove it. 
Mrs A wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to this service. She said she set up the 
direct debit with a cash point card and she thought it was difficult to imagine it would be 
denied given the amount of credit on the account. Mrs A said the direct debit was not 
rejected after the first payment was made, it was rejected after at least three payments were 
requested from S. She expected that Barclays would inform her of these rejections but she 
received no communication. She said if she had been informed she would have switched the 
direct debit to her current account. She said an email, text message or telephone call would 
have gone a long way to help her arrange to switch the direct debit as she was away looking 
after her mother. She said as a 74 year old pensioner this has been emotionally very 
traumatising. 
Our investigator concluded that Barclays hadnt treated Mrs A unfairly. She said the terms 
and conditions of the Everyday Saver account prohibited direct debits and standing orders, 
and Barclays did not have the authority from Mrs A to transfer the direct debit to her current 
account. He said Barclays also werent able to remove the default because it hadnt applied 
it. Mrs A remained unhappy and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She made some 
additional comments which I will address below. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs A but having done so I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything further. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs As Everyday Saver account and I can see 
that direct debits are not permitted on this account. Mrs A has said this account should have 
been treated as dormant because it was opened in the 1990s and there hasnt been much 
significant operation on it. She said it would be difficult to remember that direct debits could 
not be set up if the account hadnt been used in such a long period. 
I do understand that as the account had been opened a while ago the terms and conditions 
may not be front of mind but that doesnt mean they are any less applicable. A bank will 
have processes to determine if an account was dormant. Mrs A has said there hasnt been 
much significant operation on it but that doesnt necessarily mean the account is dormant or 
the bank should consider it dormant. But even if it did this would elicit the same or similar 
outcome as the direct debit would still be rejected. It is the customers responsibility to 
operate their account in line with the terms and conditions. This direct debit was an 
instruction from the Mrs A to S to authorise it to take money from her Everyday Saver 
account and an instruction to Barclays to allow S to take the money from this account. As the 
account was ineligible for direct debits, Im satisfied Barclays didnt do anything wrong in 
rejecting the payments. 
Mrs A said she is 75 years old and people of her age can be prone to forgetfulness and 
genuine mistakes. She said she would expect the bank to examine records and wonder 
who in his right mind will set up direct debits on an account that doesnt accept it. I am 
sympathetic to Mrs As point of view and I expect Barclays to have appropriate support for 
vulnerable customers. But I wouldnt expect it to assume a customer requires help or is 
particularly vulnerable simply based on their age. 
Mrs A also said she didnt think it farfetched to expect that Barclays to proactively ask for 
authorisation to set up the direct debit facility on her other account taking account of her age. 
She said this would be showing a little bit of care and concern for the welfare of her type of 
customer. Again, I wouldnt expect Barclays to respond in such a way based on Mrs As age. 
Mrs A set up the direct debit with S. In a situation where the bank rejects the direct debit, I 
would expect S to contact Mrs A to check or change the direct debit details or to seek 
payment through an alternative method. Ive seen a letter from S asking Mrs A to check the 
details of her direct debit and a notice of default letter. 
I do understand Mrs A was away from the UK and dealing with what I imagine was a 
stressful situation with her elderly mother. She has my sympathy. But it wouldnt be fair of 
me to hold Barclays responsible for the default on Mrs As credit file, put there by S when 
Mrs A failed to make loan payments. Nor would I be able to ask Barclays to remove it as it 
didnt report it in the first place. 
As the investigator has explained Mrs A may want to consider putting a Notice of Correction 
on her credit file, explaining why the default is there. Potential lenders are required to 
consider these comments. Mrs A is also concerned about the customer service provided by 
Barclays to her given her age. It may help Mrs A to get in touch with Barclays to discuss her 
needs further and to see what additional support maybe available to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman