DRN-4068691
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt treat him 
fairly resulting in his account being closed and him losing out on £363 of rewards.
What happened
Mr S received a letter from AESEL saying his account had been suspended and requesting 
he send in certain documents within 14 days. Mr S says he forgot to do this and wasnt sent 
a reminder. He then received a further letter dated 13 November 2022 from AESEL saying it 
had reasonable grounds to believe he was unable or unwilling to pay his debts and this was 
a breach of the agreement. Mr S says he has always paid his debts and because his 
account was closed, he lost out on £363 of rewards that had accrued on the account. Mr S 
says the letter was threatening and this experience has been very upsetting.
AESEL issued a final response on 7 December 2022. It said that it reviews accounts held 
with it on a regular basis and that Mr Ss account was selected for a credit review. It 
contacted Mr S requesting he provide certain financial information for it to complete its 
assessment, but this wasnt received. It said that the account terms and conditions set out 
that if it closes a credit card account the customer will lose the cashback that has been 
earned to date but not applied to the account. Given this it didnt uphold this part of Mr Ss 
complaint. AESEL did however find that there had been some issues in regard to an issue 
raised in February 2022 which was resolved but it didnt follow its process as it would have 
liked, and that Mr Ss complaint could have been raised on the call on 22 November to save 
him having to write in. It apologised for these issues and said feedback had been provided.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She 
noted that Mr S hadnt provided the information that AESEL had requested and didnt think 
that AESEL had acted outside of its terms, or treated Mr S unfairly, when it closed the 
account.
Mr S responded to our investigators view. He noted that she didnt think AESEL had made 
any errors but said the letter it sent was not acceptable as it made unsubstantiated claims 
and used intimidating language. He reiterated that he had always paid the full amount owed 
on his credit card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is upset that his account was closed which resulted in him losing out on the cashback 
he had accrued to that point. I can understand why Mr S is upset but in order to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that AESEL had done something wrong or treated 
Mr S unfairly. 
I have looked at the information provided and can see that Ms Ss account was selected for 
a credit review. Mr S has said he received a letter about providing information, but he forgot 
to do this. I note his comment, but he didnt then offer to provide this information when he 
contacted AESEL and given the requested information wasnt provided I do not find I can 
say that AESEL did anything wrong by taking the action it did.
AESEL wrote to Mr S to say his account would be terminated and setting out the implications 
of this. Mr S has said he found this letter threatening. I acknowledge the comments Mr S has 
made and his point about how he maintained his payments on the account. However, in this 
case, as he hadnt provided the requested information, AESEL was able to take further 
action and it is right that it will write to Mr S to inform him of this and the consequences. So, 
while I can understand why he was upset by the letter, I find the letter provided Mr S with the 
information he needed and while I note the comment about payments I do not find that this 
means AESEL was wrong to take the action it did. 
Mr S is upset as he had cashback accrued on his account which he then lost when the 
account was closed. I understand why he feels this should be refunded to him but the terms 
of the account set out that if an account is closed in accordance with the card account 
agreement then the customer will lose any cashback that has been earned but not paid to 
the account. So, AESEL has acted in line with the account terms in regard to the cashback 
and so I cannot say that it has done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly by not refunding 
him this amount.
While I can understand why Mr S was upset, I do not find that AESEL has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman