DRN-1644113
The complaint
Ms T complains about the early settlement figure Marks and Spencer Financial Services Ltd 
(M&S) provided for a loan. 
What happened
Ms T had raised a previous issue with this service about the interest rate applied to her loan 
and following that complaint decided that she wanted to repay the loan early.
She had initially borrowed £20,000 in July 2019 for a term of 86 months. Her monthly 
repayments were £321.83. She had calculated that she still owed approximately £19,500 but 
when she received the settlement figure, it was quoted at around £20,300. Ms T is unhappy 
that she owed more than she borrowed despite never missing a payment.
M&S sent Ms T a final response. It said that she had taken a three month payment holiday at 
the beginning of the loan where she wasn't repaying any capital but interest was still applied. 
It also said that under the terms and conditions of the loan, it was entitled to charge an 
additional months interest when Ms T redeemed the loan early.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that the 
application details hes seen show that Ms T opted for there to be a payment holiday at the 
beginning of the loan. He also said that he couldn't see M&S had made a mistake in 
calculating the settlement figure. Ms T didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Ms T has raised concerns about the interest rate she was given on this loan. But while Ms T 
remains unhappy about that issue, it has already been considered by this service, so I wont 
be commenting on it any further in this decision.
Ms T has raised concerns about the payment holiday. But like the investigator, Ive checked 
the data M&S has provided from when Ms T made her loan application.  It shows that she 
was given the option of whether to take a payment holiday and then given the option of how 
long the repayment holiday would be. Ms T appears to have chosen to have a repayment 
holiday for three months. 
The loan agreement explains how interest is calculated. It says we charge a fixed amount of 
interest which we add to the loan when we open the accountAlthough it is added upfront, 
we work out interest (and the APR) as if the loan amount was reduced by each projected 
repayment, using the interest rate, the number of monthly repayments and the period of the 
loan. So based on the information M&S gave in the loan agreement, I think M&S was 
entitled to charge Ms T interest during her repayment holiday.The loan agreement sets out how M&S will calculate interest if Ms T repays the loan early. 
Specifically it states that an additional months interest will be applied for loans with a 
repayment period of over 12 months. So Im satisfied that the terms of this loan allowed it to 
include that interest when Ms T asked for her settlement figure.
I realise that Ms T was given a settlement figure in excess of the amount she borrowed. But 
the loan agreement does make it clear that the total amount she would have to repay would 
be around £27,000, so I think it was clear that Ms T would be repaying more than she 
borrowed. And Im satisfied with M&Ss explanation of why Ms Ts settlement figure is more 
than the amount she borrowed  as Ive explained above. So I wont be asking M&S to do 
anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman