DRN-2888883
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) has refused to refund her for a partial 
payment she made to a hotel for her daughters wedding. 
What happened
Mrs F used her AIB credit card to pay £1,814.35 on 25 May 2018, to a hotel based in 
Ireland, that I will call R. She says this was to reserve the best rooms available for the 
wedding, that was due to take place on 23 May 2020. 
Due to the outbreak of the global Covid-19 pandemic, Ireland went into lockdown in March 
2020. R contacted Mrs Fs daughter, Ms T, on 11 April 2020 to explain that alternatives 
dates need to be looked at, as the lockdown situation had been extended until 5 May 2020 
and may well be extended again. 
Ms T resides in Australia, which was also under international travel restrictions at the time. 
She therefore replied to R on 19 April 2020 and explained that given the uncertainty at the 
present time, she would not be looking to reschedule the wedding and instead wanted to 
cancel. Ms T also asked for R to advise on its current cancellation policy and how the 
enforced restriction would affect deposits. 
On 30 April 2020, Mrs F contacted AIB to see if she was able to claim back the money shed 
paid to R. AIB replied the same day and explained it could review the request under a 
chargeback. To do so, it requested further information and asked this be posted to it. 
 
R responded to Ms Ts email of 19 April 2020, on 7 May 2020 and explained that the deposit 
was non-refundable. But said that a rearranged date for 2021 was something it would be 
happy to accommodate. Ms T replied the same day and expressed her disappointment. She 
said the cancellation was due to the governments restrictions stopping the wedding going 
ahead on the date as planned. She asked for R to provide written confirmation that the 
wedding on 23 May 2020 couldnt go ahead due to the governments intervention. As no 
reply was received, Ms T followed this up on 15 May 2020.
 
On 21 May 2020, R emailed Ms T and said the wedding wasnt able to proceed due to the 
restrictions in Ireland. It went on to say that an alternative date later in 2020, or in 2021 had 
been offered.
 
As a refund wasnt forthcoming from R, Mrs F pursued the chargeback that AIB had 
previously explained to her. Mrs F wrote a letter to AIB on 29 May 2020 and provided 
additional information as requested. This was received by AIB on 4 June 2020.
On 24 August 2020, AIB wrote to Mrs F and explained that it wasnt able to raise a 
chargeback for her, as it had been raised outside of the permitted VISA timeframes. 
Following this, Mrs F raised a complaint. AIB responded and again reiterated that the 
chargeback hadnt been raised within VISAs 540-day timeframe.  Unhappy with this, Mrs F 
referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator asked AIB if the claim could be considered under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). AIB said this claim isnt eligible under section 75 as no 
breach of contract had occurred. Our investigator considered both the chargeback and 
section 75 position. She concluded that the chargeback was out of time and that the relevant 
criteria for a section 75 claim to be pursued hadnt been met.
Mrs F disagreed and said the chargeback was raised in time and that she was a contracting 
party for the purpose of section 75. Therefore, the relevant criteria had been met for a claim. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback 
AIB looked to see if it could assist Mrs F in retrieving a refund via the chargeback process. 
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants, under the relevant card scheme. For Mrs Fs credit card, the relevant card 
scheme is VISA.
 
There is no right to a chargeback. But where grounds for one to be raised are evident and 
importantly the chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one 
to be raised by the card issuer. AIB didnt attempt the chargeback in this case, as it didnt 
believe it was raised in time and therefore it had no reasonable prospect of success. 
Ive looked at the VISA chargeback rules which gives the full list of dispute reasons that can 
be used for a chargeback and the criteria needed for one to be raised. The relevant dispute 
code that AIB could have used is in this case is where merchandise/services havent been 
received.
 
The rules explain the time limits under which a dispute of this nature can be raised. These 
state: 
A dispute must be processed no later than either: 
120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date
120 calendar days from the last date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or 
services
 Not to exceed 540 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date.
Ive looked at Mrs Fs credit card statements and Im satisfied the transaction processing 
date here is 25 May 2018. Mrs F asked AIB for a refund in April 2020 and submitted the 
information AIB asked her for in May 2020. Both of these dates are in excess of 120 
calendar days of when the transaction was processed. 
The last date Mrs F couldve expected to receive the service from R was the date of the 
wedding (23 May 2020). But the chargeback needs to be raised within 540 days of the 
original transaction processing date, regardless of the last date the service is expected to be 
received.
540 days from 25 May 2018 is 16 November 2019. Therefore, even if I took the date Mrs F 
raised the dispute as when she first contacted AIB on 30 April 2020, it would still have been 
out of time. Any potential delays on AIBs part have not impacted its ability to be able to raise 
a chargeback for Mrs F. Unless Mrs F asked for a chargeback prior to 16 November 2019, 
she was always going to be out of time. Given the VISA dispute rules that govern the chargeback process, I agree with AIB that it 
wasnt able to raise a chargeback as the dispute was brought out of time and would most 
likely have failed on that basis. 
Section 75
Given this, Ive gone on to consider the section 75 position for Mrs F and whether AIB was 
right to not pursue a claim any further via this method for her. To explain, section 75 is part 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It allows, in limited circumstances, someone buying 
goods and/or services on credit to claim for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation 
against their credit provider over the actions of a third-party supplier.
For section 75 to apply, there are certain conditions that need to be satisfied before I can 
begin to consider whether there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  one of 
which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship (DCS) between the parties.
In this case Mrs Fs credit card was used to pay for the transaction, and so she is the debtor. 
The creditor is AIB and R is the supplier.
Mrs F has said her payment to R was to secure accommodation for her and her family at the 
wedding venue and wasnt specifically for Ms Ts wedding deposit. I think what she means 
by this is that she had a contract with R one way or another and her payment was made in 
fulfilment of this. I dont share this interpretation. The event agreement is clear that the 
services being provided include the exclusive use of the wedding venue including its 
grounds and accommodation. Its also clear that the contract for all of these services is 
between Ms T and R.
There are provisions in the agreement to allow guests to pay separately for their 
accommodation (which could give rise to separate contracts between guests and R in the 
future) and Ive considered the possibility this is what Mrs F was doing. I however dont think 
this was the case here. The event agreement sets out that the deposit required to secure the 
reservation of the services (or in other words, the wedding) is €2,000 and this is the exact 
sum Mrs F paid to R. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the payment made by Mrs F was the 
deposit for Ms Ts wedding rather than any separate agreement for accommodation between 
Mrs F and R and I havent been persuaded that Mrs F was an additional party to the event 
agreement either.
Mrs F has said she was a party to the event agreement as it states the nature of the event is 
F wedding and she is Mrs F. I cant agree that this means shes a party to the contract. F 
wedding is given as the name/type of event and not who has specifically entered into the 
agreement (which Ms T is named as being). And this was Ms Ts surname too, so I think its 
most likely this description was referring to Ms T in any event. Since it was her wedding.  
This means the finance AIB provided was used to fund a transaction between Ms T and R 
and not between Mrs F and R. So, the DCS relationship needed for a valid section 75 claim 
isnt present. AIB wouldnt therefore have been liable for any claim under section 75 in this 
instance.  
I understand that the position Mrs F finds herself in is a difficult one. She has paid for 
something that that through no fault of her own couldnt go ahead as planned. However, as 
the chargeback was raised out of time and the relevant criteria for a section 75 claim isnt 
present, AIB isnt liable to refund Mrs F. 
My final decisionI dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint against AIB Group (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman