DRN-3364121
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund money he lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, in February 2019, Mr S decided to get involved in financial 
trading with a company Ill call E. He paid a deposit of $250 which was reflected on his 
trading account but after carrying out further research saw that it was a scam. He made a 
withdrawal request but this wasnt responded to and he was subsequently blocked from 
accessing his trading account. 
Mr S contacted NewDay to help recover his money, he also reported the matter to the police. 
NewDay explained it didnt have any dispute rights under the Mastercard chargeback 
scheme, nor did he have a valid s.75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 claim. But it recognised its 
fraud and disputes team gave him incorrect information and paid £35 to his credit card 
account by way of an apology.
 
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr S referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and felt that Mr S had valid chargeback and 
s.75 claims. He suggested that NewDay refunds the disputed payment. NewDay didnt 
agree. Another one of our investigators reviewed the complaint and issued a second opinion. 
In her view, Mr S didnt have valid chargeback rights because Mastercard didnt have 
dispute options covering the nature of Mr S claim. She also felt s.75 didnt apply because 
the required debtor-creditor-supplier chain was broken as Mr S didnt pay E directly.
 
Mr S didnt agree, he maintained a chargeback claim should have been raised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nature of Mr S complaint is that he fell victim to a scam and wasnt permitted to 
withdraw his deposit when he became aware of this. 
E is regulated in Cyprus and is still in operation today. I recognise that the FCA removed its 
passporting rights in June 2020 but this was some time after Mr S payment, so I cant agree 
it was a scam company. 
Thats not to say that there werent misrepresentations or a breach of contract, which is 
where s.75 becomes relevant. But s.75 appears to fail at the first hurdle because for Mr S to 
establish a valid claim, there must be an unbroken debtor (Mr S)  creditor (NewDay)  
supplier (E) chain. But here, Mr S didnt pay E directly, he instead paid a company called G. 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence that he had a contract with G that was misrepresented or 
breached, so I agree with our investigator that s.75 does not apply in this case.  
Whilst Mr S believes he was scammed, the chargeback scheme rules dont automatically 
entitle him to a refund based on these circumstances. The chargeback scheme is a 
voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between merchants and 
cardholders. From the information Ive seen, the scheme operator relevant to Mr S credit 
card payment is Mastercard. 
Mastercard significantly limits any chargeback dispute claims that relate to investments or 
gambling. The only dispute right would be if E didnt fund Mr S trading account at the time 
he deposited his money. But Mr S confirmed to our investigator that his trading account was 
credited (even if he believes this was fake) and he tried to make a withdrawal but was 
unable to do so. Because of this, there wouldnt have been a valid dispute right available to 
him. Mastercard also doesnt offer chargeback dispute rights for scam claims as a 
standalone issue.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice,
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. NewDay ought to
have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify
unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in
some situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them 
altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
I dont think there was a reason for NewDay to have challenged the disputed payment. 
There was no regulator warning about G at the time this was authorised by Mr S. And given 
the individual amount involved, I dont consider the payment as particularly unusual or 
suspicious such that they ought to have triggered NewDays fraud detection systems. 
Afterall, it must balance the extent to which it intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud 
against the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.
In summary, I dont think NewDay ought to have prevented this authorised payment from 
being sent, and I dont think there was a viable route for it to raise a chargeback claim nor do 
I think there was a valid s.75 route to pursue.
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr S. Not least because the
matter has been ongoing for some time and our investigator initially upheld the complaint.
But I can only fairly make an award if I think that NewDays errors caused, or contributed to, 
his loss. In this case, I think that Mr S concerns about E are best placed to be directed to E 
as a formal complaint (if Mr S has not already done this). He may also wish to contact the 
Financial Ombudsman in Cyprus in case they may be of some assistance.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman