DRN-3024718
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy at the interest and charges National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
added to his account over the years.
What happened
Mr T complained to NatWest that when facing financial difficulties, it failed to offer adequate 
support and levied excessive charges on his account. NatWest says all charges were 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account and as a gesture of goodwill 
refunded £256 in charges.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns and reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr T disagreed he wants NatWest to repay all the charges applied to his account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr T has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ts account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr T was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr T fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr T unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ts statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised Mr T might have been experiencing financial difficulties prior 
to it being notified of this. 
Mr Ts statements show that Mr T was in credit far more than in overdraft and when Mr Ts 
account did become overdrawn this was quickly rectified with regular incoming payments. I 
accept what Mr T says about some of the money coming into the account not being his own 
and borrowed from relatives  but there is nothing in the transactions in themselves that 
would indicate to NatWest that this was the case or that Mr T was in financial difficulty. 
And I can see from NatWests internal records that when Mr T has contacted it for help in the 
past it provided the assistance I wouldve expected by setting up a repayment plan and 
refunding charges as a gesture of goodwill. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ts account was being 
used. And I dont think that NatWest treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably and this means 
that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr T. But I he understands the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman