DRN-4216168
The complaint
Mr K and Ms L complain that Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) irresponsibly gave them a hire 
purchase agreement they couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr K and Ms L acquired a used car in December 2019, using a hire purchase agreement 
from GCC. The cash price of the car was £6,495. Mr K and Ms L were required to pay 48 
monthly repayments of £270.84, the total repayable was £13,000. 
Mr K and Ms L fell into arrears soon after the start of the agreement. Mr K and Ms L 
exercised their right to voluntary termination in June 2020 and the car was returned, 
however, a balance remains outstanding. Mr K and Ms L complained to GCC to say it 
shouldnt have given them the credit.
GCC didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had carried out appropriate affordability 
checks which showed that Mr K and Ms L had sufficient disposable income to be able to 
afford the hire purchase agreement.
I sent Mr K and Ms L and GCC my provisional decision on 6 June 2023. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Prior to granting credit, GCC needed to ensure the borrowing was likely to be 
affordable and sustainable for Mr K and Ms L. There isnt a set list of checks it 
needed to complete, but it needed to ensure that any checks it did were 
proportionate in the circumstances. This means that different checks will be 
necessary in different lending situations. What is considered proportionate will 
therefore vary, but in deciding what checks to complete GCC needed to take into 
consideration things such as (but not limited to): The amount borrowed, the total 
repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term, as well as Mr K and Ms Ls 
circumstances.
GCC asked Mr K and Ms L about their regular expenditure, which included asking 
about how much they spent on food, rent, utilities, other credit and expenditure for 
running and maintaining a car. Mr K and Ms L declared monthly expenditure of 
around £830. GCC also asked to see evidence of their income. Mr K provided a 
payslip and Ms L provided proof of her benefit payments. These gave a combined 
monthly income figure of around £2,100.
GCC also completed a credit check to verify what existing credit commitments Mr K 
and Ms L had as well as understanding how they had managed credit in the past. 
This showed that Mr K and Ms L had experienced some previous difficulty in 
repaying credit. Mr K had three previous defaults and Ms L had one. Mr K had a 
County Court Judgement against one of his debts. They still owed around £3,500 
towards these defaulted debts.
While what Mr K and Ms L had declared on the income and expenditure part of the 
application appeared to show that the agreement was affordable, I dont think the 
checks GCC completed were reasonable and proportionate. I say this because the 
credit check demonstrated that Mr K and Ms L had more expenditure than they had 
declared (the outstanding balances on the defaulted accounts were not mentioned). 
There had also been signs of their inability to sustainably afford smaller amounts of 
credit in the past. I therefore think it would have been proportionate for GCC to have 
also verified Mr K and Ms Ls expenditure rather than just relying on what they had 
declared, particularly as GCC could already see they hadnt provided accurate 
information about their debts.
I cant be certain how GCC would have verified Mr K and Ms Ls expenditure, but Ive 
relied on copies of their bank statements. Im not suggesting GCC were required to 
review bank statements before lending, but in the absence of any other verification of 
expenditure it did I think these give a good indication of what GCC would likely have 
discovered if proportionate checks had been completed.
GCC had already verified Mr K and Ms Ls income through copies of payslips and a 
benefit statement and I dont think the bank statements Ive seen would have 
significantly contradicted what GCC had already learned about their income. The 
bank statements indicate Mr K and Ms L significantly under declared their regular 
committed expenditure. Excluding what they owed on their defaulted debts, it 
appears their essential and committed outgoings were around £1,300 per month. 
This would have left Mr K and Ms L with around £800 a month, which I think was still 
sufficient to cover the hire purchase repayments of around £270 per month and a 
sizeable repayment towards their defaulted debts, while still leaving enough for 
emergency or unexpected costs.
I therefore think that if GCC had done more thorough affordability checks it would still 
likely have concluded that the agreement was affordable to Mr K and Ms L. I note 
Mr K and Ms L have said that their income changed shortly after taking out the 
agreement. While I accept that, it therefore further supports that it was this change in 
circumstances that likely caused the agreement to become unaffordable, rather than 
any affordability issue from the outset.
I therefore dont think GCC made an unfair lending decision. However, I remind GCC 
of its obligations to treat Mr K and Ms L fairly in relation to any ongoing difficulty they 
might have in relation to repaying the outstanding balance.
Neither Mr K and Ms L nor GCC responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I therefore dont think GCC 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in granting credit to Mr K and Ms L. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman