DRN-3572784
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wise Payments Limited will not refund payments on his card which he 
says he didnt authorise, and he disputes.  Mr A would like the payments refunded.
What happened
Mr A had an account with Wise. Whilst he was abroad, he hired a car. He complained that 
some charges were debited to his Wise account that he hadnt made. In particular two 
charges of 185 Euros and one charge of 65 Euros. These charges were for speeding fines 
and administration.
Mr A complained to Wise. He said he hadnt authorised the payments out of his account. He 
wanted Wise to raise a chargeback claim against the merchant. Wise raised a chargeback 
with the merchant. Wise received information from the merchant. Wise asked Mr A for 
further information about his whereabouts at the time of the charges. Mr A didnt provide the 
information they needed so they were unable to escalate his chargeback claim further.
Mr A complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Wise had followed the correct process when they raised the chargeback. The 
investigator also looked at the information that the merchant had provided. She thought that 
Mr As card had been correctly debited with speeding fines and admin fees. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr A was unhappy with the view. He said it wasnt his signature on the hire car documents 
so he shouldnt be charged these fines. Mr A referred to calls he had made to Wise that 
showed he had been given misleading information.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback process.
Mr A says Wise havent followed the proper chargeback process because they havent 
agreed to refund him the charges made to his card. Its important to note the chargeback 
scheme rules arent set by Wise and Wise needs to follow the processes in place in order to 
pursue any claims on behalf of its clients. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. It is a process by which card payment 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. When a customer raises a 
chargeback claim the card issuer will raise a dispute if there is a realistic prospect of 
success. The rules around chargebacks are set by the card scheme. And Wise is required to 
abide by these rules when it processes chargeback claims.
I understand Mr A feels that he should not have been charged the amounts. But I can see 
from the information provided Wise did raise a chargeback and requested information from 
Mr A in order to escalate his chargeback claim once the merchant had rejected the claim. 
This is what I would have expected Wise to do. Mr A didnt provide the information that was 
needed and so Wise did not pursue the chargeback claim further.
Mr A has said he didnt understand what sort of information Wise needed from him. I accept 
Mr A may not have been clear what was needed but he could have asked Wise for 
clarification and I would have expected him to do so. In addition, I have seen evidence that 
Wise asked Mr A to provide documents confirming the car wasnt rented in his name and 
wasnt in his possession on the date of the fines. So, I think these requests are clear.
I have looked at the information provided by Wise and the merchant and Im satisfied that 
Wise acted fairly in the way they processed Mr As chargeback claim. I cant say that they 
did anything wrong and in any event the chargeback claim process is run by the card 
provider and not Wise.
Disputed transactions
The three transactions disputed by Mr A are speeding fines and admin fees following a car 
rental abroad. Mr A has said he was back in the UK when the transactions were made, and it 
wasnt him that authorised the transactions. He has said it wasnt his signature on the rental 
agreements. He has also said he didnt authorise the charges to be made to his card.
Wise explained that companies such as car hire companies keep card details on file in case 
they need to apply additional charges. This is agreed in the terms and conditions.
I have listened to calls Mr A made to Wise. Although he complains that he didnt authorise 
the payments he said he had taken out the rental but said the signature wasnt him. 
It hasnt been clear whether Mr A agrees he hired vehicles on all three occasions. He has 
mentioned he wasnt in the country at the time of the fines and he has said he didnt 
authorise the payments.
Ive gone on to look at whether I think its likely Mr A hired the vehicles. And from the 
evidence before me I think it is. 
The speeding fines were issued on 11 October 2020, 14 October 2020 and 17 October 
2020. I have seen evidence provided by the merchant which shows Mr A hired vehicles from 
the merchant from 9 October until 12 October, from 14 October to 16 October and from 16 
October to 17 October. 
Mr A has maintained he only hired a vehicle from 14 to 16 October. But as Ive seen 
evidence he was using his card abroad on 9 October, I think its likely Mr A did hire a vehicle 
between 9 and 12 October and that the charge on 11 October was a genuine charge for a 
speeding fine he incurred.
Mr A has always said he hired a vehicle between 14 and 16 October. The second charge 
was for a speeding fine on 14 October and the timings coincide with when he would have 
collected the vehicle from the merchant. So, I think its likely that Mr A incurred the second 
fine.
The merchants have provided information to show Mr A hired a vehicle on 16 October until 
17 October. Mr A has said he wasnt abroad at this time.  Ive seen transactions on his card for 17 October that were made abroad. Mr A has also provided this service with information 
regarding his return flights and pointing to a cash withdrawal in the UK on 17 October to 
support his claim that he was in the UK when the speeding fine for 17 October was issued.
Although Mr A has said he was in the UK on 17 October the evidence he has provided 
doesnt convince me. Although I accept he had flights booked for 16 October this doesnt 
mean Mr A boarded the flight returning to the UK. In addition, there are card payments that 
place him abroad and although he has also provided evidence of a cash withdrawal in the 
UK, I am of the view that Mr A is likely to have been abroad. I say this because despite being 
asked to by the investigator Mr A hasnt provided convincing evidence to support his version 
of events. So, Im not going to ask Wise to return the payments to him.
Mr A says he didnt authorise the payment of the speeding fines and administration charges. 
But Im satisfied that when hiring cars and other types of services the merchant is authorised 
to charge the customers card if any other claims come through. This is agreed to in the 
terms and conditions. And Im satisfied that Mr A agreed to this when he hired the vehicles.
Mr A has told us he wasnt in the country and it couldnt have been him who hired the vehicle 
or drove the vehicle and incurred a speeding fine. Hes said the signature isnt his. Having 
looked at the evidence presented by Wise and the merchant, Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not that Mr A was in the country and hired a car for the relevant periods. It follows he is 
liable to the fines as per the terms of his hire agreement.
Wise giving misleading information
I have listened to calls and I know that Mr A asked on numerous occasions to have 
payments from this merchant blocked. He was concerned that other payments would debit 
the account and his account was already in debit. I realise that Mr A was unhappy that 
payments could debit his account when he didnt have funds and wanted to prevent this from 
happening. He asked for the payments to be blocked and he says he was told they would be 
blocked. Having listened to the calls I disagree; Mr A was told that the payments would be 
looked at if he raised a dispute. So, I cant agree that Wise misled Mr A.
In summary I dont think Wise did anything wrong in the way it processed the chargeback. 
Mr A failed to provide the information Wise needed to continue with the chargeback claim. In 
addition, Im satisfied that the information provided by the merchant suggests its more likely 
than not Mr A was abroad and hired the vehicles at the relevant time and is therefore 
responsible for the speeding fines incurred during his hire period. It follows I wont be asking 
Wise to do anything different.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman