DRN-2667592
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc refused to serve him at his local branch and that hes 
been treated unfairly.
What happened
Mr H went into his local Santander branch on 9 September 2019 because hed lost his card 
and needed a replacement. He took a bank statement and a council tax bill with him, as hed 
been advised over the phone that the branch would need to see identification documents.
But Santander didnt accept the documents Mr H had with him. It said it could only accept 
photographic ID, though Mr H says it had never asked him for any photo ID in the past when 
ordering a new card, nor did it advise him over the phone to take photo ID to the branch on 
this occasion. Mr H was unhappy about this and said Santander had issued him with a new 
replacement card in the past, after seeing the same documents, because hes well known to 
branch staff. 
Mr H is registered disabled as hes partially blind. And hes said he felt discriminated against 
by Santander because of his disability and because of his race. Hes also told us he was 
assaulted by a member of bank staff. 
Santander said it followed its identification procedure correctly on this occasion. It says Mr H 
failed the security check over the phone when trying to reorder his card and that it told Mr H 
hed need to go to a branch with photo ID and proof of account ownership to get a new card.
On 11 September Mr H went to his local branch and said the staff treated him unfairly. Staff 
were able to verify Mr Hs identity with the documents he had brought with him on that day. 
On 16 September Mr H visited his local branch to get a mini-statement and collect the 
benefit money he needed. But he said a branch manager told staff not to serve him. 
Santander decided to close Mr Hs account but then reconsidered this and decided not to.   
Mr H remained unhappy with Santanders responses, so he referred his complaints to our 
service. Our investigator considered the issues and said although we didnt have enough 
evidence of what had happened during Mr Hs various visits to branch, he didnt think 
Santander had treated Mr H fairly because it hadnt ensured Mr H was only sent letters in 
large font. He recommended Santander pay Mr H £50 compensation for this. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators assessment and explained that Santander had 
continued to send him letters in small font and didnt properly deal with a data subject access 
request (DSAR) he made, by giving him transcripts of phone calls in a timely manner. 
Santander accepted that it shouldnt have continued to send Mr H letters in small font and 
increased its offer of compensation to £250. 
Mr H didnt accept the offer and wanted an ombudsman to look at everything again. So the 
complaint has now come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs branch visit on 9 September 2019
Mr H refers to a series of incidents which he says happened in branch on 9 September 
2019, including being assaulted by Santander staff and staff members refusing to help him 
and activating security screens. I dont doubt that Mr H has relayed his genuine recollection 
of those events and that the impact these events had on him was significant, despite 
Santander maintaining its position that its staff members did not act unreasonably. 
Due to the passage of time, we dont have enough evidence  such as CCTV footage  of 
what happened during the various branch visits. But, even if there was evidence of an 
assault, that would be a matter for Mr H to refer to the police and not to this service, as we 
cannot investigate allegations of criminal conduct.
Mr H also says he feels he was discriminated against on the grounds of his disability and his 
race. Alleged breaches of the Equality Act 2010 are also a matter for the courts to determine 
 and so I cannot make a finding on whether or not Santander has acted unlawfully in 
discriminating against Mr H on the basis of a protected characteristic. But I can consider 
whether Mr H was treated in a fair and reasonable manner and whether I think he was 
treated differently to other customers. 
There are conflicting accounts of what happened on 9 September 2019 by both parties to 
this complaint. Having listened to a recording of the call between Mr H and a Santander 
adviser which took place on this date, Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr H incorrect 
information. I say this because during the call, the adviser attempts to take Mr H through the 
standard security process, which Mr H cannot complete. The adviser then lets Mr H know 
she wont be able to discuss anything about his account with him, as he hasnt passed the 
security check. She gives Mr H information about reporting his card lost and which 
documents hell need to take with him to branch. The accepted documents include a 
passport, driving license and a number of other official documents, as well as proof of 
account ownership such as a bank statement. 
Im satisfied from listening to this call that the adviser didnt do anything wrong, because 
when Mr H later takes a bank statement and council tax bill to the branch, not the specific 
documents from the list the adviser read out, these documents arent accepted by the 
branch as proof of ID. At no point does the adviser on the phone tell Mr H that a council tax 
bill would be accepted.
Mr H believes he was treated unfairly during the branch visit. Again, I dont have enough 
evidence of what happened. So Ive thought carefully about both parties accounts of what 
took place. Santander says its staff didnt act unreasonably. Mr H says they did. But I cant 
say staff were wrong to implement security measures such as activating security screens, if 
they believed it necessary to do so. And I cant see that Mr H was treated differently to how 
other customers wouldve been treated in similar circumstances.
Mr Hs visit to a branch on 11 September 2019
Mr H says he was discriminated against by members of branch staff on this date. But the 
evidence shows he was able to order a replacement card during this visit, and staff were 
able to verify his identity using the documents he produced. So Im satisfied Mr H wasnt 
treated unfairly.Mr Hs visit to branch on 16 September 2019
Mr H returned to the branch on this date but was refused service. Santander has said this 
was due to Mr Hs behaviour in branch. And without further evidence of the conversations or 
events that took place, Im afraid I cant say Santander acted unreasonably by refusing to 
serve Mr H on this occasion. Santander took the decision to close Mr Hs account but Im 
pleased to see it later decided against doing so.
While I appreciate why Mr H says he feels Santander has discriminated against him given 
the problems hes experienced, having looked at all the evidence I dont think I can safely 
say Santander has done so. Nor can I say Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
relation to the events which happened in its various branches. I hope that it helps Mr H to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
Santanders failure to comply with Mr Hs DSAR 
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the way Santander has dealt with his data subject 
access requests (DSARs). Mr H requested the information Santander held about him 
together with transcripts of phone calls. Mr H has been unhappy about the delays in dealing 
with his requests.
While I do sympathise with the problems Mr H has had, issues around how a business has 
dealt with a DSAR are best placed for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to 
investigate and respond to. 
Santanders failure to make reasonable adjustments
Ive considered Mr Hs recent letter to our service, in which he explains that Santander 
continue to make errors such as sending out letters to him in small font. But I can only 
consider complaint issues that were raised by Mr H and dealt with before Santander issued 
its most recent final response letter to him, and therefore issues that Santander has had a 
fair opportunity to respond to.
Mr H says he told Santander he was partially sighted and required reasonable adjustments 
to the way Santander communicated with him, as early as June 2019. Santanders records 
show it was aware of Mr Hs disability and the request for reasonable adjustments from 
October 2019.
However, since October 2019, Santander has sent a number of letters to Mr H in a smaller 
sized font than hes requested, so I dont think its done everything it couldve. Considering 
the impact of these errors, and the likely trouble and upset this wouldve caused Mr H, I think 
a payment of £250 in recognition of these mistakes is reasonable.
Going forward, if Santander continues to send Mr H letters in a small sized font, then Mr H 
can raise a complaint with Santander in the first instance about this. Santander has said 
these complaints should be directed to its Executive Communications team in writing.
Santanders general level of customer service
Mr H isnt happy about the customer service Santanders provided. Hes said hes been 
spoken to unprofessionally, that hes been put on hold for long periods of time during phone 
calls, that staff havent completed requests hes asked them to, that advisers have 
terminated calls and that hes experienced generally poor service over the phone.
Having listened to recordings of the phone calls Mr H refers to, I dont think Santander has provided a poor level of service. When Mr H has been placed on hold, its been so that 
advisers can seek help from colleagues, in order to assist Mr H. While I can appreciate the 
frustration that Mr H wouldve experienced during some of those calls, Im not persuaded 
that Santanders advisers have been unprofessional.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr H £250 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset 
caused to him, if it hasnt paid this already in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Santander UK Plc must put things right 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman