DRN-3936218
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). They 
are not happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their buildings insurance policy after 
a fire at their property. 
For ease of reading any reference to RSA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim under their buildings insurance policy back in 2019. The fire was 
substantial, and the claim was drawn out, partly because of the extent of the fire. Mr and Mrs 
H were out of their property for quite a period of time in alternative accommodation. And 
when they returned home they were very disappointed to find their property wasnt repaired 
to a satisfactory standard, so they complained to RSA about this. 
Mr and Mrs H noticed a number of issues with their property and found a lot of the repairs to 
be substandard. They highlighted that they didnt get given choices for fittings and that some 
of the fittings were faulty; that they were unable to use the bath; the shower and 
conservatory roofs were leaking amongst other things. RSA offered a cash settlement offer 
which Mr and Mrs H accepted of around £50,000 after prolonged discussions. However, they 
felt RSAs offer of £500 compensation wasnt sufficient as they thought they should be paid 
thousands more in compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs H and eventually upheld their complaint. 
She thought RSA had clearly delayed matters, made errors and not fully taken account of Mr 
Hs poor health when he returned to the property. So she thought the level of compensation 
should be lifted to £800. 
Although RSA accepted the position Mr and Mrs H did not, they maintained that they should 
be paid thousands of pounds more in compensation. So the matter has been passed to me 
for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs H had to face on return to their property 
after an extensive fire. They were out of the property for a while in alternative 
accommodation, paid for under the policy, and then had to endure a property that wasnt 
repaired to the required standard. 
Im pleased to see a satisfactory outcome has been reached in relation to the outstanding 
repairs so I will solely focus on the key remaining issue here, the level of compensation. And 
I must highlight that the newer issue Mr and Mrs H raised to our investigator, in relation to an 
ongoing leak that may be attributed to the repairs RSA undertook after the fire, would have 
to be raised and considered as a new complaint with RSA in the first instance. And if Mr and 
Mrs H arent happy with its response they can refer the matter to this Service.
Turning to the level of compensation I can see Mr and Mrs H faced a fair degree of stress, 
worry and inconvenience here. However, a claim such as this one (involving extensive fire 
damage) was always going to be stressful, worrying and take time to resolve and a lot of the 
worry and stress stems solely from the fire. And I cant hold RSA responsible for this.
Indeed, I note a lot of the concerns Mr and Mrs H raise around the level of compensation 
have actually been covered by the substantial settlement as opposed to being part of any 
compensation award. For example, issues around the fire surround, architrave, skirting and 
the corner bath have been raised by Mr and Mrs H in relation to the level of compensation, 
but these issues were dealt with by RSA as part of the settlement of the claim. 
However, it is accepted that the property wasnt repaired to the required standard by RSA 
and Mr and Mr H faced unnecessary stress and inconvenience in addition to that caused by 
the fire itself. I know Mr and Mrs H would like thousands by way of compensation but 
unfortunately claims like theirs can be difficult, drawn out and very stressful and are awards 
are generally modest. But I do agree their property shouldve been better repaired in the first 
instance, and it was inconveniencing and stressful to realise that it hadnt been. It must have 
been very worrying to live with the poor repairs and to have had to chase to put things right.
So I agree with the position outlined by our investigator and I think RSA should pay £800 
compensation as opposed to £500. Mr and Mrs H feel that RSA should pay more to prevent 
RSA treating anyone else in this way. But this Service isnt here to punish businesses but to 
look to put people back into the position they shouldve been but for the errors caused. And I 
feel £800 is fair and the increase acknowledges the amount of chasing and hassle they 
faced and the fact that Mr Hs poor health wasnt fully taken into account by RSA.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to pay Mr and Mrs H £800 (total) compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman