DRN-3699775
The complaint
Miss P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) should refund her the 
payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums paid from January 2021 to July 2021 as she 
says her policy shouldve been cancelled in January 2021. 
What happened
Miss P contacted RBS in January 2021 to discuss her PPI complaint. Miss P is unhappy that 
she has been charged PPI premiums from this date onwards. But RBS say that Miss P only 
expressed her wish to cancel the policy in July 2021. So, theyve refunded the PPI premiums 
from July 2021 onwards. Miss P says she should be entitled to a PPI refund from January 
2021, when she first made a complaint to them. She says she couldnt afford the PPI and 
she had made RBS aware of this, but they have not agreed to refund her any more 
premiums. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and everything that both parties had said. Based 
on the evidence received, he felt that RBS didnt need to refund any more of Miss Ps PPI 
premiums. Miss P disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS says that Miss P cancelled her policy in July 2021, and so the refund theyve already 
provided is fair.
Neither party have been able to provide the call recordings of the conversations between 
Miss P and RBS from January 2021 onwards. So, I dont know exactly what was discussed. 
But RBS have provided the call notes from all the calls that took place during January 2021 
and July 2021  and in the absence of the actual call recordings this is the most reliable 
evidence available. I have read all the call notes provided and in these I can see that the call 
notes from July 2021 recorded that Miss P was unhappy she was still paying for the PPI 
premiums. And its noted here that the call representative explained that she could cancel 
the policy if she wishes. This is the first mention of cancelling the policy in the call notes 
provided. 
Miss P says that every time she spoke to RBS between January 2021 and July 2021 they 
confirmed that the policy would be cancelled and the premiums refunded to her  but Ive 
seen no other evidence to support what she has said. So, its difficult for me to rely on what 
she has said alone to uphold the complaint.
So unfortunately, without any stronger evidence to show Miss P wanted to cancel the PPI 
before July 2021, I dont think RBS need to refund Miss P any of the other PPI premiums 
paid in 2021.   
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint, so The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC do not need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman