DRN-2481970
The complaint
Mr H complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Hes unhappy because his pension 
was worth approximately £6,700 less than they quoted him when transferring his benefits. 
What happened
Mr H had a pension plan with Aviva with a normal retirement age of 65. In early 2020 Mr H 
was 59 years old and looked into taking the benefits from his plan. He asked an independent 
financial advisor (IFA) for advice and signed a letter of authority which he sent to Aviva so 
that his IFA could correspond with them. Mr Hs objective was to retire from work and use his 
Aviva pension to provide him an income until he received his state retirement benefits at age 
67.
In April 2020 Aviva sent Mr H and his IFA two valuations of the pension. At that time, it was 
valued at around £107,000 which included a final bonus of around £20,000 and a loyalty 
bonus of around £7,700. The quotes said the figures werent guaranteed as Aviva revalue 
the funds on a regular basis. It also said Mr H was unable to take an income drawdown from 
his plan. In order to do so, hed have to move his pension into a different product.
Aviva say they sent another quotation to Mr H on 29 April 2020. That quote gave a transfer 
value of Mr Hs fund of £100,117.67 which included a final bonus of £19,049.56. Mr H says 
he never saw this quotation. 
Mr H called Aviva on 1st May 2020 as hed decided to move his pension into a drawdown 
plan. He says that in the phone call Aviva said his pension was valued at £106,958.08. Aviva 
then sent Mr H an illustration and declaration document the same day via email. The 
documents gave the same valuation of Mr Hs pension and said he could receive a tax-free 
cash payment of £26,739.52 if he transferred the pension into a drawdown plan.
Mr H says that as he could move the pension into drawdown himself, he didnt use the 
services of his IFA. Mr H signed the declaration and returned the necessary forms to Aviva 
to move his pension into drawdown. Mr H also says he handed in his resignation at work in 
preparation for his retirement. 
In June 2020 Mr H received the tax-free funds from his pension. But he only received 
£25,059.01 which was approximately £1,700 less than the illustration and declaration had 
quoted. When he checked the funds in his drawdown fund, Mr H saw that his pension had a 
total value of £100,331.07.
Mr H complained to Aviva saying that hed received much less than he was expecting. He 
was upset and stressed as he was due to finish work but the income that hed planned to 
last for the next six years had been reduced. 
In their response Aviva said their first two quotes in April were incorrect. They included a 
loyalty bonus which was only applicable if Mr H took his benefits at normal retirement age 
(65) or in death. But not if the pension was transferred. Aviva went on to say they sent Mr H 
the correct valuation on 29 April 2020. They said their error had caused Mr H upset and a 
loss of expectation of the value of his pension. So, they offered £400 to compensate him.
Mr H was unhappy with Avivas response as he thought they should honour their original 
quote, so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair to make Aviva 
pay the difference, as Mr H was never entitled to the higher amount. But he thought the 
impact of Avivas error on Mr H had been substantial and so he said Aviva should pay Mr H 
a total of £800 for the upset theyd caused.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator, they thought their offer of £400 was fair and in line 
with other similar complaints. As they disagreed, the case had been passed on to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva have acknowledged that they made an error. They included a loyalty bonus in their 
quotations that Mr H was only entitled to if he remained in his plan until the age of 65. 
My role in cases such as these is to assess the impact of Avivas error and to put Mr H back 
into as close a position as he would have been in, but for Avivas error. 
It wouldnt be fair to make Aviva pay the higher quoted figure which included a loyalty bonus. 
I say that because Mr H wasnt entitled to the loyalty bonus if he wished to access his 
benefits early as he did. 
However, having reviewed the letters Aviva sent it wasnt clear that the loyalty bonus would 
be removed if Mr H was to transfer his pension into a drawdown plan. A principle of business 
is that Aviva needed to communicate with Mr H in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. I think to include a bonus that Mr H wasnt entitled to at the time was misleading 
and unfair. Whilst I wouldnt expect Aviva to leave it out completely, I would expect them to 
clearly point out to Mr H that if he left his pension where it was, he was entitled to a further 
bonus in five years time.   
Aviva say they sent Mr H a correct quotation before he made his decision but the quotation 
from 29 April 2020 was only addressed to Mr Hs IFA. And Mr H says he stopped using the 
services of his IFA when he realised he could do the transfer himself. So, Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr H was aware of this correct valuation before he made his decision to move 
down into drawdown two days later. But even if he had seen the quote, Mr H spoke to Aviva 
on 1 May 2020 and he says they quoted the higher figure of £106,958.08. While I havent got 
a recording of that call, I think its likely that he was given this figure as Aviva emailed him 
the illustration using the higher figure later that same day.
Aviva also suggest Mr H shouldnt have resigned from his job until hed received payment of 
his pension as the quotes hed been given werent guaranteed. But Mr H had been provided 
three quotations, all of which were over £106,000. And the reason the quotes werent 
guaranteed was due to market fluctuations and revaluations of the fund. However, that 
wasnt the reason why Mr H received over £6,000 less than he was expecting. Mr Hs fund 
was never worth £106,000 in the way he wanted to use it. It was Aviva producing unclear 
and inaccurate quotes that led to Mr Hs perceived loss, not market fluctuations. 
Overall, I think Avivas documentation meant Mr H would have thought it was likely his 
pension was worth around £106,000. And he says that was enough for him to retire. I also 
think it was reasonable for Mr H to make choices about his future based on information that 
he believed to be and should have been accurate. Its not unusual for people who are taking their pension benefits to also be retiring from work. So, its important that businesses use a 
high level of care when producing quotations. And on this occasion, I dont think Aviva acted 
with appropriate care which meant they produced misleading and inaccurate documentation. 
Putting things right
Aviva have offered Mr H £400 for the upset and loss of expectation they caused. They say 
thats in line with other similar complaints. But when considering whats fair and reasonable, I 
must consider the individual circumstances of the complaint. 
While I agree that market fluctuations could have affected the final value of Mr Hs funds, 
they didnt. It was Avivas error and the misleading and inaccurate information they sent that 
now means Mr H has less fund than he thought he would. And in Mr Hs case the impact 
was substantial, because hed used the information to decide whether he could stop 
working. He retired from his job in the belief that he could afford to do so. 
The result of Avivas error is that Mr H now has concerns that he may have to find further 
employment otherwise his funds could run out. 
So, considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think the impact on Mr H has been 
substantial and Aviva should pay him a total of £800 for the upset and inconvenienced 
theyve caused.
My final decision
 My final decision is, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
pay Mr H;
A total of £800 for the upset and inconvenience caused (less their offer of £400 if 
they have already paid that) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman