DRN-2271565
The complaint
Mr L complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited is responsible for mishandling his
claim on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had a saloon car that had been made in 2007. He had a comprehensive motor policy
under which Highway was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Highway or
the insurer, I include claims-handlers, engineers and others insofar as I hold Highway
responsible for their actions.
On 5 July 2019 Mr L reported to Highway that his car had been damaged in an accident
involving a pot-hole. The insurer said his car would be written off. It later took his car away.
Mr L complained that on about 19 July 2019 the insurer said his car wouldnt be written off 
and the insurer declined his claim saying that the incident hadnt caused damage to the car.
The insurer returned the car to Mr L. He complained that the insurer was responsible for
further damage to his car.
Highway compensated Mr L £100.00 for delays and poor service. It sent a final response
dated 10 September 2019. Mr L brought his complaint to us later that month.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that  as
Mr L disagreed that the damage wasnt related to the incident - the insurer shouldve
arranged for an independent assessment to confirm whether it was. She recommended that
the insurer should:
1. either pay Mr L to get his car independently assessed or arrange for this to be 
done; and
2. in addition to the £100.00 already offered, pay a further £100.00 for the 
inconvenience this may cause to Mr L.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Highway on 16 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find that Highway treated Mr L unfairly by declining his claim. 
I didnt find that it caused any material damage to the value of his car.
As a year had passed and Mr L had probably disposed of the car, I didnt find it 
reasonable to direct a re-inspection of the car.
The shortcomings in the call-handling caused distress and inconvenience to Mr L. 
Overall, I found £200.00 fair and reasonable compensation for this.
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from Highway, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Highway Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr L  in addition to the £100.00 it paid in about September 2019  
a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr L hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Highway accepts the provisional decision. 
I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered accidental damage to Mr Ls car. It didnt cover wear and tear.
From the policy schedule, I note that Mr Ls car had been converted to run on liquid
petroleum gas. By early July 2019 the car was about 12 years old. It had a recorded mileage
of about 199,000.
Mr L reported that after his car hit a pot-hole, he thought it was pulling to the left. He got a
garage to adjust the tracking of his car. He didnt contact his insurer until he thought the car
was still pulling to the left and there were other issues.
Ive listened to the call recording. Mr L reported to the insurer that his car had hit a pot-hole
on his side of the road (so with the nearside of his car). He said a drive belt had snapped,
the engine was overheating, and the suspension was damaged.
I consider that - based on what Mr L had reported - the insurers call-handler leapt to the
conclusion that the insurer would collect the car and pay its pre-accident value. He shouldve
been clearer about the decision-making process.
The insurer collected the car and Mr L didnt expect to see it again. But I consider that Mr L
ought reasonably to have known that the insurer would need to assess the car not only for
its pre-accident value but also for the nature and extent of accident damage.
I havent seen enough evidence to show when Mr L committed to buying a replacement car.
But I consider that this was his choice.
On 9 July 2019 Mr L asked Highway for an update. The insurer explained that an engineer 
would assess his car the following week. Following an inspection on 19 July 2019, the 
engineer wrote a report. It included the following:
no damage to the N/front wheels and tyre and the fault with the steering is due to the
alternator belt being broken which is causing the power steering not to work.
There are no signs of any impact damage to the N/front wheel and tyre and the
N/front suspension looks to be ok. The N/front suspension drop link appears to have
been recently replaced with a new part the steering is heavy due to the failure of the
alternator drive belt. the alternator belt has failed due to wear and tear consistent
with the vehicles age and mileage.Mr L disagreed with this. But there are photographs showing an undamaged front nearside
wheel, the alternator belt missing, and an undamaged front nearside suspension. In the
absence of engineering evidence to the contrary, I find that the report was correct.
I find that there was no damage to the nearside front wheel or tyre. And I find that the
alternator belt had broken so that the power steering wasnt working. From these facts
together, I dont find that the pothole damaged the alternator belt, the engine or the
suspension. I find it more likely that the belt failed due to wear and tear.
Mr L didnt want the car back. But on about 1 August 2019, the insurer returned the car to 
him. That was inconvenient for him, but I dont think it was unfair.
Mr L complained that the insurer had driven the car without coolant. But Mr L had reported
that the engine was overheating on 5 July 2019. And I havent seen enough evidence that
the insurer is responsible for damage to the engine.
Mr L also complained that the insurer returned his car with wetness on the passenger seat
and back floor, causing a damp smell. Also, the aerial was inside the car. But in December
2019 Mr L told us that he was thinking of scrapping the car.
Ive done online checks of the information publicly available about the car. It passed an MOT
in March 2020 and in June 2020 there was a new V5. The car is taxed until June 2021. So I
find it likely that Mr L has disposed of it.
I consider that Highway shouldve handled the call better on 5 July 2019. But I dont find that
Highway treated Mr L unfairly by declining his claim. And I dont find that it caused any
material damage to the value of his car. As a year has passed and Mr L has probably 
disposed of the car, I dont find it reasonable to direct a re-inspection of the car.
Putting things right
Ive thought about the shortcomings in the call-handling. I accept that they caused distress
and inconvenience to Mr L. Overall, I find £200.00 fair and reasonable compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct Highway Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr L  in addition to the £100.00
it paid in about September 2019  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman