DRN-1670646
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how Telefonica Insurance S.A. has settled her mobile phone 
insurance claim.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs M took out an insurance policy to cover a brand-new phone she had 
purchased for her son. Unfortunately the phone screen was damaged in October 2019, so 
Mrs M called to put in a claim under the policy. She paid the £90 excess on the policy and 
sent in the damaged phone as advised.
Telefonica dealt with the claim and sent Mrs M a refurbished phone. She complained as she 
said she hadnt been told shed be sent a used phone in replacement. Telefonica explained 
that as the mobile phone industry is very fast-paced it wasnt always able to stock new 
phones. And it referred to the terms of her policy which set out it could repair the phone or 
replace it with a new or refurbished model, so it didnt agree to send her a new phone. Mrs M 
remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the terms set out that Telefonica 
could send a refurbished phone instead of repairing the handset Mrs M had or sending a 
new phone. He said the notes Telefonica had provided from when it listened to the call didnt 
suggest Mrs M had asked about whether she would receive a new handset or not.
In response Mrs M said she had been told she would get a new phone. Our investigator 
contacted Telefonica to listen to the call, but unfortunately it wasnt able to provide it. He 
considered the point Mrs M was now making with the available evidence, but it didnt change 
his view. He set out that the policy she held wasnt a new for old policy, that the terms dont 
guarantee a new phone and that the phone she sent in also wasnt new. Mrs M then asked 
for an ombudsmans decision as she said if she was told shed receive a conditioned phone 
then she wouldve had the phone repaired herself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the terms of Mrs Ms policy, as these set out the contract between her and 
Telefonica, Im satisfied that it can provide her with a refurbished model. The section for 
accidental damage reads:
If Your Equipment is Accidentally Damaged anywhere in the world during the Term of 
Cover, We will at Our discretion either:
(a) Repair Your Equipment; or
(b) Replace Your Equipment with a product of the same or a similar specification, as 
determined by Us. Replacement Equipment might be a different colour or model from a different manufacturer. It may be new, re-furbished, re-manufactured or re-packaged by a 
repair centre approved by Us
So its at Telefonicas discretion how the claim is handled and whether a repair or 
replacement is provided. And in any event, it now doesnt seem that this is in dispute. The 
issue is whether or not Mrs M was falsely led to believe she was getting a new handset 
when she logged her claim.
I have to consider that during the course of this complaint Mrs Ms position has changed  as 
when she originally complained to Telefonica and our service she stated that the operator 
did not state that the phone was to be a used phone. However she is now saying that the 
operator told her she would receive a new phone. While I will assess the point Mrs M now 
wants us to look into, I have to consider that this was in response to our investigator setting 
out that he hadnt listened to the call recording as Mrs M wasnt alleging she was told a new 
phone would be sent. So it seems that on receipt of his view her recollections of the call 
have changed, considering not being told something is very different to being given a 
guarantee of something else.
As the call recording is no longer available Ive had to reach a decision based on the 
evidence we have. Ive reviewed Mrs Ms testimony and the notes Telefonica has from when 
the call was reviewed as part of responding to Mrs Ms complaint. These state that Mrs M 
didnt question the condition of the replacement device and that the script the operator used 
does not include information on the condition of the replacement, as this is per the terms and 
conditions. And from reading the terms I cant see that the operator wouldve known how 
Mrs Ms claim would be dealt with, considering there are a number of resolutions. I also cant 
see that she couldve had a guaranteed new device under the policy she held. So if I was to 
accept Mrs Ms testimony, I would be accepting that the operator had not only fully gone off 
script, but was also suggesting cover that isnt provided for this type of policy by Telefonica.
Based on the information available, I think its most likely that the operator didnt tell Mrs M 
she would receive a new phone. And instead she was unfortunately under the impression 
she would receive a new phone, so didnt question this during the call  and the operator 
didnt say anything to correct Mrs Ms assumption. And I dont expect Telefonica to have 
raised this with Mrs M in the call, as the operator couldnt have known how the claim would 
be settled. I think the policy terms are clear on what Telefonica can do and its acted in line 
with these. Im also in agreement with our investigator that the phone Mrs M sent wasnt 
brand new, it was a used phone itself. So I dont think Telefonica has unfairly settled Mrs Ms 
claim by sending her a refurbished device, meaning it doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman