DRN-3873565
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the interest and fees MBNA Limited charged on a credit card she had 
with them. She also thought theyd acted irresponsibly by approving the credit card when 
shed applied for it. 
What happened
In October 2015, Ms B applied, and was approved for, a credit card with MBNA. In February 
2019, Ms B exceeded the credit limit on the account. And she struggled to bring the account 
back within the limit, as well as struggling to make payments. So, in November 2019 MBNA 
suspended all interest and charges on the account. And, in October 2020, after an extended 
period of receiving no payments from Ms B, MBNA defaulted the account and passed the 
debt to a third party debt collection agency.
Ms B has complained that MBNA acted irresponsibly when approving the credit card. Shes 
said MBNA acted irresponsibly by not carrying out the correct checks they should have. She 
also complained about the interest and fees that had been applied to her account.
On 13 February 2023, I issued a decision explaining why we werent able to consider Ms Bs 
complaint about the approval of the credit card; as itd been brought to us out of time, 
because MBNA didnt consent to us considering these matters out of time, and because I 
didnt think there were any exceptional circumstances why Ms B hadnt been able to bring 
this complaint to us earlier. As such, I explained to Ms B that we were only able to consider 
the complaint about the interest and fees.
In respect of the interest and fees, MBNA said that Ms B was charged in line with the 
agreement she signed; that the interest rate was shown on every monthly statement; that Ms 
B was given a minimum of 30 days notice of any interest rate change, with the option to 
keep the old rate and close the account or accept the new rate and keep the account open; 
and that any charges for late and/or returned payments were capped at £12 in line with 
guidance provided by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong.
Ms B wasnt happy with MBNAs response, and she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said we were unable to comment on MBNAs pricing structure, as the 
interest rate they charged was a commercial decision theyre entitled to take. But he 
considered whether MBNA acted reasonably by applying interest and charges to Ms Bs 
account. 
The investigator said that MBNA only charged interest on the outstanding balance, and that 
they only applied charges when payments were missed, or the credit limit was exceeded. He 
also said that MBNA had frozen the interest and charges in 2019. So, he didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly, and he wasnt going to ask them to do anything further.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigator. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms B was supplied with a credit card. This is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints 
about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions of the account that Ms B agreed to on 23 
October 2015. The terms that I consider applicable to this complaint are:
A.5 You must not go over your credit limit at any time  if you go over your credit 
limit, you must pay us the overlimit amount immediately and the default charges  
will be payable.
C.2 Interest is charged on your balance which means it is charged on any amount 
from and including the date the amount is added to your account until it is paid off  
we will charge interest on all transactions  we will charge interest on any card fees, 
service charges, and any other amounts included in your balance  we will also 
charge interest on any interest included in your balance  we will not charge interest 
on default charges  if we credit a payment you make to your account but it does 
not clear and is returned unpaid we will add this back to your account and charge 
interest on this amount.
C.7 We will not charge interest  if every month you always pay the total 
outstanding balance shown on your statement in full by the payment due date and 
your payment is not returned unpaid.
E.1 If you break this agreement we will charge you for our reasonable costs or 
losses, including as follows:
£12.00 each time the minimum payment does not reach your account by your 
payment due date  ;
£12.00 each time a direct debit, cheque or other item is returned unpaid;
£12.00 if you are over your credit limit on your statement date.
You may be charged more than one [of the above] in any month.
F.1 If the minimum payment is not made in accordance with these conditions we will 
charge you the default charges  we will let credit reference agencies know you 
have not paid and this may make it more difficult for you to get credit.From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that MBNA applied interest and charges in line 
with the terms Ms B had agreed to  interest was charged when the outstanding balance 
wasnt cleared each month, and £12.00 charges were applied when Ms B didnt make the 
minimum payment and/or exceeded her credit card limit. Ive also seen that, after Ms B got 
into financial difficulties, MBNA suspended all fees and charges. In addition to this, I havent 
seen anything that shows me that MBNA miscalculated any of the interest or fees.
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms B, Im satisfied that 
MBNA acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Ms Bs account. And I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman