DRN-3096894
The complaint
Mr N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
  
What happened
In or around February 2015, Mr N was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr N decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
Mr N raised a complaint under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. Mr N said P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced him to enter into the contract with P. Mr N said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
P told him that after an initial financial deficit for the first 3 years, the system would 
generate him a profit by the fourth year;
the system should generate £617.42 per year; and,
he was told the system would be monitored remotely and attended to immediately 
should a fault arise;
Shawbrook issued its final response letter on 18 June 2018. Shawbrook said having 
reviewed the information it held on file, as well as information provided by P, it didnt agree 
the system had been misrepresented to Mr N or that there were any other reasons for the 
claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear that the cash price of the system was 
£8,339.10 and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was 
£13,382.40;
the contract P had provided Mr N set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved; 
the contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was £617.42, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were £111.52 a month, or £1,338.24 over 
the year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan 
repayments;
Unhappy with this response, Mr N referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided our investigator thought the benefits of the system were 
misrepresented as the system is underperforming compared to the estimations provided at 
the point of sale. 
 
The investigator recommended the following to put the matter right:
a) a full unwind of the loan agreement and removal of the system;
b) refund the monthly repayment Mr N made, less any benefit hes received from the 
system; 
c) add 8% simple interest a year to each refunded sum from the date each payment 
was made to the date of settlement;
And Shawbrook should pay Mr N £100.00 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Shawbrook didnt accept the investigators view and presented some additional points for the 
investigator to consider. In summary it said: 
Shawbrook had spoken with P and they said the system would only ever be able to 
generate 2,200 kWh, as per the MCS certificate, due to Mr N actually having 12 
panels installed and not the 16 panels stated in his quotation document;
therefore, only the generation of 2,200 kWh stated on the MCS certificate should be 
taken into consideration;
on several occasion P attempted to inspect Mr Ns system but, on these occasions, 
no-one answered;
in November 2016, P did manage to gain access to Mr Ns property and found the 
system to be switched off;
P offered Mr N £315.00 as a gesture of goodwill for the generation lost, however, he 
failed to return the acceptance form;
Shawbrook considered the investigators recommendation for a full unwind of Mr Ns 
system to be disproportionate as they feel only the MCS generation should be taken 
into consideration in terms of system performance;
Shawbrook requested that before the case is passed to an ombudsman, Mr N 
provide daily generation data for a one-week period to allow P to carry out a desktop 
review; and;
if it is found the system is not performing as expected, they should be allowed to 
inspect the system and make any repairs. 
The investigator considered the additional points raised by Shawbrook but didnt think it 
changed their opinion on the complaint, so the case has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations 
 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states: 
 
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor. 
 
As Mr N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr N could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case. 
  
Key documents 
 
There are several documents that have been provided by Mr N and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr Ns solar quote. Ive considered these in detail and 
whether they support the alleged representations made by P. 
 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ns recollection of the sale. 
 
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This explained 
that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mr N and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this complaint.  
 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
 
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above. 
The quotation document 
 
Mr N has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation. 
 
Page ten of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr N could expect to receive by way of 
FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income over 20 
years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 years 
and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote. 
 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr N could expect to receive a 
total income in year one of £492.92 from his FIT. 
 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr N could expect from the system as 
well as any savings he would make from taking out any optional extras including a Voltage 
Optimiser. The expected year one electricity savings is £330.30 and the combined income 
and savings in year one is shown as £960.37. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together. 
 
Theres a page in the quote with three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 
months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months, the length of the loan that Mr N entered 
into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 120 monthly payments of 
£111.51 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over 
a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments. 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr N could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover his 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that his monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone. 
 
Total cost of the system and expected benefits 
 
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr N makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£8,339.10. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £8,339.10 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £13,382.40. 
 
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,339.10, it would 
cost Mr N more than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan. 
 
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two. 
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr N was expected to make a loss of 
£31.48 a month and in the second year this loss would decrease to £26.97 a month. It 
wouldnt be until year seven was repaid that the expected benefits would exceed the monthly 
loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt been until after the loan agreement had 
ended that he would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system 
would be paying for itself.
 
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mr N was told that the system would be returning a profit in 
the fourth year. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between his 
expected income and monthly loan repayments.  
  
The estimated performance over 20 years page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. 
 
 
This shows that by year 11 the overall benefits that Mr N could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under his loan agreement. 
 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr N that the system would pay for itself by 
year 11, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and I was 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation. 
 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr N. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,030.56 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in his energy bills, Mr N could expect to receive. 
 
Ive calculated that the system should generate 8.30 kWh of energy each day. Mr N 
has provided his FIT statements which show that between March 2015 and April 2016 the 
system generated 1,395.69 kWh which equates to 3.79 kWh a day or 1,384.31 kWh a year. 
This is significantly less than the estimations provided at the point of sale. 
 
Im satisfied that the generation and the subsequent FIT payment would have induced Mr N 
into entering the contract. The generation and therefore income are drastically lower than he 
was promised so he has suffered a loss. I believe that this amounts to a misrepresentation.  
Mr N has also provided his energy statements covering from 12 months before the 
installation of the system and 12 months after the installation of the system. The statements 
read as follows:
Prior to installation:
After installation:
As previously mentioned, Mr Ns quote estimated a year one electricity saving of £330.30. 
The statements show the year before the installation of Mr Ns system his electricity bills 
totalled £748.09 and then his electricity bills one year after installation were £576.28  a total 
decrease of £171.81.
While I accept the figures shown above arent exact, the electricity savings Mr N received 
are still nowhere near the estimated year one savings predicted by P in their quote. 
Additional points raised by ShawbrookPeriods Cost of electricity
31/01/14 - 17/04/14 £186.08
18/04/14 - 18/01/15 £537.42
Total covering above period of 
353 days£723.50
Total when averaged over 
365 days£748.09
Periods Cost of electricity
19/01/15 - 03/10/15 £331.95
04/10/15 - 17/08/16 £579.06
Total covering above period 
covers of 577 days£911.01
Total when averaged over 
365 days£576.28Considering the additional points raised by Shawbrook in response to the investigators view, 
I think it supports the view that the system has been misrepresented to Mr N. As mentioned, 
Shawbrook state that Mr N had 12 solar panels installed instead of the 16 stated in his 
quotation documents.
Mr N based his informed decision to purchase the system on his quotation document for 16 
solar panels. As such, all the calculations and estimations he would have considered when 
making his decision were incorrect. I havent seen anything to show that Mr N was furnished 
with a revised quotation documents with calculations and estimations based on 12 panels. 
Shawbrook says that the MCS generation should be considered in terms of system 
generation - I cant agree under these circumstances. Mr N made his decision to buy the 
system based on the sales presentation and the figures stated in his quotation document, 
and not the generation shown in the MCS certificate.
He expected to generate the benefits outlined in his quotation and this simply will never be 
achieved, regardless of the system being monitored and any potential faults being repaired.         
  
I believe that the above amounts to a misrepresentation so I think this case should be 
upheld. Ill go on to explain what I think is a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact 
science and it is more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been installed at 
the property. 
Ive taken all the circumstances of the complaint into consideration and think a full unwind 
the credit agreement, removing the solar panels, giving Mr N a refund of all the payments 
made (less the financial benefit gained from the installation of the solar panels), is the fairest 
way to resolve matters given the circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint.  I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
arrange for the solar panel system to be removed from Mr Ns property and make 
good any damage caused at no additional cost to him, 
refund the payments Mr N has made towards the system, including any deposit, less 
any benefits he has received.  Shawbrook should use Mr Ns fit statements and 
electricity bills to do this and use a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
add 8% simple interest* per year to each of the refunded sums from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement; and,
pay £100.00 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr N how much it has taken off.  It should also 
give Mr N a certificate showing this, should he ask for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman