DRN-3395404
The complaint
Mr S complains Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as Ratesetter, are holding him liable for a 
loan he says he didnt apply for.
What happened
In July 2018, a loan was taken out in Mr Ss name for £25,000. Mr S says he didnt take this 
loan out. 
Mr S ran a business and a customer, who Ill refer to as Mr X, owed him around £6,000 from 
2017. One day, Mr X got in touch with Mr S and let him know he could pay his money back. 
Mr X said he was in another country and payments over a certain amount take longer to 
clear from that country  he also informed Mr S that his vehicle was stuck at the border 
crossing and he needed to pay some money for that. So, Mr X asked Mr S if he could 
transfer him £25,000; and Mr S could then keep his £6,000 and transfer £19,000 back to 
Mr Xs account in smaller transactions. Mr S agreed.
Mr S received a payment of £25,000 into his account on 23 July 2018. He transferred 
£19,000 into Mr Xs account in smaller transactions. £6,000 was retained by Mr S.
Later in the year  around October 2018, Mr S noticed a direct debit payment being made 
from his account to Ratesetter. Mr S said it was at this point he realised what had happened 
 and after speaking to Mr X, says Mr X admitted he had taken out the loan in Mr Ss name.
 
Mr S contacted Ratesetter and explained the situation. Mr S also provided Ratesetter with 
Mr Xs name and contact details confirming hed admitted what he had done and was willing 
to pay back £19,000. Mr S paid Ratesetter back the £6,000 he retained.
In December 2018, Mr S reported the issue to Action Fraud and the Police. During this 
month, Mr X also tried to contact Ratesetter directly; but as he wasnt associated with the 
loan, they wouldnt talk to him.
Ratesetter didnt uphold Mr Ss fraud claim and continued to hold him liable for the debt. 
Mr S refused to make any payments towards the debt  because he didnt take it out. 
Ratesetter sold the debt to a third party to recover the monies owed.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She was satisfied that information within the loan 
application  such as the telephone number and email address  was incorrect and not 
linked to Mr S. And as Mr X had admitted that hed taken out the loan in Mr Ss name and 
said hed pay Ratesetter the £19,000, she upheld Mr Ss complaint. To put things right, our 
investigator thought Ratesetter should:
Remove the outstanding debt from Mr Ss name and credit file;
Pay Mr S back the £6,000 he paid; as Mr S was owed this money by Mr X;
Pay 8% interest on the £6,000.
Ratesetter responded to our investigators view and didnt agree. They said they werent 
willing to reimburse Mr S with the £6,000 as that would mean he would benefit from the loan 
funds. Ratesetter also wanted to know the outcome of the Action Fraud and Police report.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
In January 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
I dont think Ratesetter should hold Mr S liable for the loan. But I dont think they should pay 
Mr S back the £6,000 he returned to them. Ive explained further below.
Did Mr S apply for the loan?
Section 83 Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from the use of the 
credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. 
In simple terms, Mr S cant be held liable for a debt that another person, not acting on his 
behalf, took out. 
Taking the above into consideration, I must first concludeon the balance of probabilities 
whether the loan was applied for by Mr S, or an agent acting on his behalf.
Based on the evidence Ive received I think its more likely than not, Mr S didnt apply for the 
loan himself; and I dont think he gave Mr X to apply for it on his behalf. I say that because:
While the loan application held some of Mr Ss correct personal details, this 
information would have been easily accessible. Mr S also admitted he gave Mr X his 
bank details to allow him to transfer the £6,000 Mr X owed.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Ratesetter carried out checks to confirm the 
employment and salary details were correct. I also note from the application the time 
in employment confirms 0 years, 0 months so I would have expected this to have 
flagged on Ratesetters systems.
Mr S has given a consistent and persuasive version of events of how he came to 
receive the money in the account. Mr X told Mr S a plausible story as to why he had 
to transfer him £25,000 and Mr S had no reason to disbelieve Mr X.
Mr S transferred majority of the money  less the amount he was owed by Mr X  
shortly after receiving them into his account. This makes Mr Ss story more plausible. 
I say that because in light of the reasons he was given by Mr X for making the 
payments, Im persuaded that Mr S wouldnt have sent the loan funds to the fraudster 
had he not received it into the account first.
The phone number and email address used on the application didnt belong to Mr S 
so Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have been aware a loan had been taken out in his 
name.
As soon as Mr S did become aware of the fraud, he contacted Ratesetter. Mr S also 
raised a case with the Police and Action Fraud. These are actions I would expect to 
see of somebody who had fallen victim to identity theft.
Ive seen screenshots of conversations between Mr S and Mr X where Mr X confirms 
he will pay back the £19,000 to Ratesetter. I find it unlikely Mr X would do this if Mr S 
had agreed for him to take the loan out in his name. 
Mr X also tried to contact Ratesetter directly about the loan  but they refused to talk 
to him. I think this supports Mr Ss version of events even further.

Based on all of the evidence Ive received, I think its more likely than not Mr X applied for 
the loan in Mr Ss name  without his knowledge. Mr X was able to do this due to knowing Mr S for a number of years and knowing a lot of his personal information. Mr S also supplied 
his bank details to his friend, Mr X, and Im more persuaded that Mr Ss testament that he 
thought he was helping a friend was true. This isnt unfamiliar when dealing with complaints 
involving fraud. 
Considering all the above information, Im satisfied that Mr S neither applied for, nor agreed 
to, the loan in question. I do recognise he benefited from some of the loan funds - £6,000 but 
as he has paid that amount back to Ratesetter, I dont find he should be liable for any of it.
How should Ratesetter put things right?
Ratesetter should put Mr S back into the position he would have been in, had the loan not 
been approved. While I recognise Ratesetter shouldnt be held liable for Mr S trusting Mr X, I 
think they should be held liable for not carrying out sufficient checks. If Ratesetter had 
investigated and verified Mr Ss income or employment details, I think its unlikely they would 
have approved the loan  and therefore Mr S wouldnt have found himself in this position.
Because of that, I think Ratesetter should remove any adverse data from Mr Ss credit file  
and ask the third party who they have sold the debt, to stop pursuing Mr S for the funds. 
Ratesetter should therefore write off the remaining loan amount and refund Mr S any direct 
debit payments hed made towards it (if any).
I appreciate our investigator thinks Ratesetter should reimburse Mr S the £6,000 he paid to 
them towards the loan  but I disagree. While I appreciate Mr S was owed £6,000 by Mr X, I 
cant fairly hold Ratesetter liable for that. If Mr S is owed that money by Mr X, he should 
pursue him directly for it. It wouldnt be fair for Mr S to benefit from money from a loan he 
says he wasnt party to. So, if Ratesetter were to pay this money back to Mr S, he would be 
liable to repay this debt to Ratesetter. I appreciate this leaves Mr S without £6,000 which he 
is entitled to by Mr X  but thats not something I can fairly ask Ratesetter to pay.
I do, however, think Mr S is owed some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this situation has had on him. Mr S was honest with Ratesetter about what had happened, 
and Mr X even tried to contact Ratesetter himself to make repayment. Despite this, 
Ratesetter continued to chase Mr S for repayment for a loan he didnt apply for. Because of 
this, I think they have caused Mr S a significant level of stress and anxiety.
So, I thought Ratesetter should:
Remove any data from the credit reference agencies in relation to this loan,
Write off the remaining amount of the loan,
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S responded. In summary he agreed he didnt want the £6,000 back and said he will 
pursue Mr X directly for that money. But he did say he wanted compensation for:
Ratesetter allowing Mr X to take a loan out in his name without doing due diligence.
Ratesetter causing him a great deal of stress and anxiety.
Spending around 50 to 100 hours trying to sort this issue out.
The difficulties and obstacles faced when trying to continue to run his business.
The impact having a default on his credit file caused.
Mr S shared details of finance agreements he took out since this issue happened, and the 
difficulties he faced when trying to open them due to the information on his credit file. 
Ratesetter responded and had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr S has provided to our service  and the effects this 
overall situation had on him as an individual. I do feel the £500 compensation which I 
referred to in my provisional decision is a fair amount to reflect whats happened. Combined 
with the removal of data on Mr Ss credit file linked to this loan, and writing off the remaining 
amount, I believe fairly puts Mr S back in the position he would have been in. Im pleased to 
hear Mr S accepts why its not appropriate to ask Ratesetter to pay him back the £6,000 and 
why he should pursue Mr X directly for this amount.
I appreciate Mr S would likely want more than this amount, but I must explain to him that our 
awards are not designed to punish a business or to make them change the way they act in 
order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
Putting things right
Ratesetter should put Mr S back into the position he would have been in, had the loan not 
been approved. Ratesetter should remove any adverse data from Mr Ss credit file  and ask 
the third party who they have sold the debt, to stop pursuing Mr S for the funds. Ratesetter 
should therefore write off the remaining loan amount and refund Mr S any direct debit 
payments hed made towards it (if any). And they should pay Mr S a total of £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. To 
put things right, Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as Ratesetter, should:
Remove any data from the credit reference agencies in relation to this loan,
Write off the remaining amount of the loan,
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman