DRN-2645638
The complaint
Mr J complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist) traced him to the wrong address 
before taking legal action to recover a debt. 
What happened
In 2014 Hoist bought a debt in Mr Js name from another business. Hoist contacted Mr J 
about the debt and he made payments between October 2014 and September 2015 but 
nothing further was received. Hoist tried to contact Mr J for repayment but was unsuccessful. 
Hoist says that, as a result, it carried out various tracing exercises via the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). Hoist traced Mr J to a number of addresses and sent correspondence 
requesting contact. During this period, Hoist also tried to contact Mr J by phone and email. 
Hoist traced Mr J to an address hes told us he has no relationship with. In August and 
September 2016 Hoist wrote to that address to try and contact Mr J. Hoist then took the 
decision to pass the debt to its solicitors to seek a County Court Judgement (CCJ). 
The solicitors sent pre court information to Mr J at the address Hoist had traced him to. 
Mr J has told us he wasnt living at the address in question so didnt receive any of Hoists 
letters. In addition, Mr J says he didnt receive the solicitors correspondence either. 
The case was ultimately referred to the court which issued a CCJ that was subsequently 
recorded on Mr Js credit file. 
Last year Mr J said he checked his credit file after being declined for a mortgage and found 
the CCJ. Mr J complained to Hoist but it didnt agree an error had been made. 
Mr J referred his case to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
accepted Mr J wasnt living at the address Hoist traced him to but said it had attempted to 
contact him at various addresses without success. The investigator was satisfied Hoist had 
found a link between Mr J and the address in question so the decision to contact him there, 
and pass those details to its solicitors, was reasonable. Mr J asked to appeal, so his 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
I asked Hoist to supply additional information to support the tracing investigations it 
undertook which has been supplied. I also asked Mr J for a copy of his credit file but didnt 
receive it.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has told us he wasnt living at the address Hoist traced him to before it took legal action 
and had no connection with it. I asked Mr J to provide a copy of his credit file to see whether 
there were any other links, outside Hoists CCJ. Mr J didnt send us a copy so Ive looked at 
the trace information Hoist has supplied. 
Hoists trace investigation shows it contacted the CRAs and obtained information to try and 
locate Mr J. Various addresses were found and Hoist sent correspondence asking Mr J to 
get in contact and start making payments. When no response was received, Hoist again 
completed a tracing investigation and located the address the CCJ was recorded against. 
Ive looked at the tracing information Hoist obtained from the CRAs and can see there is a 
connection reported between the address it recorded the CCJ at and Mr J. Without any 
evidence to the contrary from Mr J, Im satisfied Hoist did find information that showed a link 
between Mr J and the address it later passed to its solicitors. 
I think its reasonable to note that Mr J had been making repayments over a period of around  
a year. But when the payments stopped and Mr J didnt make contact with Hoist to say why 
or update his contact details, I think it acted reasonably by trying to trace him via other 
means. The information Ive seen strongly indicates Mr J was aware of the debt and I think 
Hoist could reasonably have expected him to get in contact if he was having trouble 
maintaining payments or had moved. Ultimately, as repayments werent made towards the 
debt and no contact was made, I havent found that Hoist treated Mr J unfairly by taking the 
decision to refer the matter to its solicitors to obtain a CCJ. 
Mr J has told us the situation impacted his ability to get a mortgage. But, as Ive said above, 
without supporting information in the form of a credit file its not possible for me to say 
whether there were any other factors that couldve impacted Mr Js application. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent found that Hoist treated him unfairly in this 
case. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman