DRN-2670288
The complaint
Ms C and Mr Y complain that a conditional sale agreement provided by Vauxhall Finance plc 
was not affordable. Vauxhall Finance was, at the time, GMAC UK Plc, but I will refer to it as 
Vauxhall Finance throughout.   
What happened
In September 2016 Ms C and Mr Y entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement for a 
new car. The total price was just under £16,500. They paid a deposit of £1,500 and were 
then to make one payment of just over £400, 45 monthly payments of a little over £250 and 
a final payment of nearly £4,600. 
Payments were made by direct debit for some two years, but Vauxhall Finances accounts 
indicate that after that some were returned unpaid and then made by card. 
Mr Y  who has largely run the complaint for himself and Ms C, his mother  complained that 
the finance was unaffordable and should not have been provided to them. Vauxhall Finance 
said that it had carried out appropriate checks and satisfied itself that the agreement was 
affordable for Ms C and Mr Y. They referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened.
Our investigator discussed that part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook which 
deals with consumer credit  the Consumer Credit sourcebook, or CONC. He noted that any 
assessment of affordability should take into account factors including the type of credit, the 
amount of credit being provided, its duration, the overall cost of borrowing and the 
customers credit history. 
He noted too that Vauxhall Finance no longer had detailed information about the checks it 
had carried out, although it did provide some evidence of the checks it said it would have 
made.
The investigator was not persuaded that Vauxhall Finance had carried out appropriate 
checks. Specifically, he thought it should have sought more information about Ms Cs and Mr 
Ys outgoings at the time. 
He therefore went on to consider what would have happened if further checks had been 
made. He considered in particular bank statements from the time, as well as further 
information that Ms C and Mr Y provided about their income and outgoings. He took the view 
however that the further information would have made no real difference to the outcome; it 
indicated that the finance was affordable. He did not consider that Vauxhall Finance had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, either in assessing the affordability of the finance or in some 
other way. 
Mr Y indicated that he and Ms C did not accept the investigators conclusions. He said that, 
although he was employed, he had been on probation at the time. He had lost his job and, 
because of this agreement, had to seek another job rather than study or seek a more 
fulfilling career. The agreement had not been sustainable. The investigator was not 
persuaded to change his mind, however, and so the case was passed to me to review.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. Indeed, there is little I can usefully add to what he said in his 
preliminary findings. I note that payments were made in full and on time for two years before 
Mr Y raised any concerns or suggested he was having difficulty paying. The investigator 
carried out a more detailed assessment of his and Ms Cs finances before concluding that, if 
Vauxhall Finance had carried out the same type of assessment, it would have reached the 
same conclusions about affordability. 
In response to Mr Ys comment that he was on probation in his job at the time, I note that the 
application recorded that he had been with his employer for one year and eight months. In 
any event, I think Vauxhall Finance was entitled to proceed on the assumption that Mr Y 
would remain in that or similar employment for the duration of the agreement; there was no 
reason to think that would not be the case. 
I would comment too that, in taking a car on credit, Mr Y was to some extent committing 
himself to being able to fund it. To that extent, it may well have limited his choices; that is 
however in the nature of borrowing and is not connected with the affordability of this 
arrangement.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Vauxhall Finance plc to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 
15 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman