DRN-3503517
The complaint
Mrs T, on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr T, has complained that Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1989.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out the policy at the same time as arranging the loan in 1989. Although it 
was a joint loan, the policy was set up just to cover Mrs T for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs T and the estate of Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence I have seen and on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
BoS no longer has any documentation from the time of the sale, which is not surprising given 
how long ago it took place, particularly as the mortgage account itself has been closed for 
some time.
Mrs T says she didnt know that PPI had been added to the mortgage account. Therefore it 
was added without her knowledge or consent.
I have no doubt that Mrs T has provided her genuine recollection of events. However, the 
sale was in 1989 and so it also wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded somewhat. 
Mrs T says she took out the original mortgage in 1997 without PPI, so why would she 
change her mind ten years later.
Although BoS no longer has any paperwork, it does have some limited system records that 
show Mr and Mrs T borrowed £11,660 in 1989. Mortgage interviews are quite lengthy and 
PPI was usually discussed as part of the wider meeting. From what we know of BoSs sales 
process at the time, the PPI was normally presented as optional. And I havent seen 
anything that would lead me to conclude that something different happened in this case. On 
balance Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs T werent given a choice about taking out 
PPI. It seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, 
even if Mrs T no longer remembers doing so.
BoS advised Mr and Mrs T to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to them, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the 
time, the policy was most likely suitable for them.
Mr T wasnt working, so it was appropriate that the policy was set up just to cover Mrs T. Mrs 
T says that she worked through an employment agency who found different jobs for her. She 
says these jobs were sometimes temporary, sometimes on fixed term contracts and 
sometimes became permanent after a fixed term, although shes unable to remember who 
she was working for in 1989 and what type of contract she might have been on. The nature 
of Mrs Ts employment didnt necessarily make the PPI unsuitable. Thats because PPI 
policies generally covered people on fixed term contracts under certain circumstances, as 
well as those in permanent employment. I wouldnt expect Mrs T to remember her exact 
employment circumstances in 1989. However, given the available evidence, Im unable to 
conclude that the unemployment element of the cover was unsuitable for Mrs T.
Mrs T says she would have received some sick pay from work. However, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have 
received full pay for.
 
Mrs T has talked about reaching retirement age during the term of the policy. However, she 
was 53 at the time it was sold and therefore she was eligible for the cover. BoS would not be 
responsible for ensuring that the policy remained suitable for her beyond the sale date.
On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs T had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it if Mrs T had been unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
BoS also needed to provide Mr and Mrs T with enough information for them to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs T wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr and Mrs T had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I doubt that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. So they were no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done 
wrong. So there is nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs T and the estate of Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and the 
estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman