DRN-4489436
The complaint
Mr N complains that West Bromwich Mortgage Company Limited (West Bromwich) unfairly 
increased the interest rate on his buy-to-let mortgage. As a result, he said the mortgages 
became unaffordable and he had to sell the properties at a loss.
What happened
Mr N had a buy-to-let mortgages with West Bromwich that had fixed interest rate products. In 
2013, it increased the interest rate on the mortgages by 2% to reflect what it said were 
increased funding costs.
In 2016, the Court of Appeal ruled that West Bromwich had acted unlawfully in increasing 
the interest rate. West Bromwich said it accepted the courts judgment and reimbursed Mr N 
for the additional interest he paid.
Mr N complains that West Bromwich unfairly increased the interest rate on his buy-to-let 
mortgages. As a result he could not afford the mortgage and in 2014, had to sell the 
properties. He said he had no choice other than to sell the properties quickly under market 
value at auction to avoid repossession.
The investigator accepted that West Bromwich had unfairly increased the interest rate on Mr 
Ns mortgage. But he wasnt persuaded that made the mortgage unaffordable or forced Mr N 
to sell the properties.  Mr N did not accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
West Bromwich has continued to question whether we have jurisdiction in this case. I would 
refer it back to my jurisdiction decision, which explains why we have jurisdiction. Its not clear 
that it has read or understood that decision. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, as far as I can see the communication we had with West 
Bromwich was clear that it needed to give referral rights appropriately. It didnt do so in this 
case following its offer of redress after the court judgment. It is for West Bromwich to comply 
with the relevant rules in place at the time in question when dealing with complaints.
West Bromwich withdrew the 2013 final response. The 2016 was not a final response as it 
did not include referral rights to us. So Mr N has referred the complaint to us in time. 
The subject matter of this complaint has not been dealt with in court and Mr N was not part 
of the court proceedings  so I cant dismiss it for that reason. Im not sure the example West 
Bromwich has given was a case that we dismissed because it was dealt with in court, rather 
than where we said that providing redress in line with the courts judgment was a fair way to 
settle that complaint. 
In any case, under the relevant rules it is for me to decide whether to dismiss a complaint or 
not. Ive already explained in my jurisdiction decision why I dont consider I should exercise 
my discretion to do so in this case.  
Mr Ns financial loss
It isnt in dispute that West Bromwich unfairly increased the interest rate on Mr Ns mortgage. 
It has already compensated Mr N in line with the courts ruling. But Mr N said his loss goes 
further than that. He said he was left with no choice other than to sell the mortgaged 
properties and that caused him an additional loss. 
When Mr N took out the mortgage, he told West Bromwich the rental income would be 
£1,600 a month. When the interest rate went up in 2013, the mortgage payment was 
£806.51. That left a surplus of almost £800 a month. And the mortgage payment was less 
than Mr N had to pay between 2007 and 2009. 
Mr N has not given us any persuasive evidence that the increase in the interest rate made 
the mortgage unsustainable. Based on the evidence we have, I am not persuaded that the 
increase in interest rates made the mortgage unaffordable or unprofitable.
It follows, that I cant find that the increase in the interest rate was the reason why Mr N had 
to sell the properties. Even if the increase was a factor in Mr Ns decision, I cant say it was 
the sole or main factor. Ultimately it was his decision. In all the circumstances, I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable for West Bromwich to compensate him for any losses 
he may have incurred because of that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman