DRN-4198527
The complaint
Miss C complains that Forester Life Limited (FL) acted unfairly and without her authority 
when it re-invested her money into a product that carried investment risk and this led to her 
incurring a financial loss.
What happened
Miss C is unhappy that money, which came from an investment she held with FL that had 
matured, was reinvested into a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). She 
said she never signed anything or provided any digital signature to say she agreed to this.   
Miss C complained to FL, but it said its records showed that the funds were re-invested into 
FLs stocks and shares ISA when there was a log-in to Miss Cs online account from the 
location of her registered address and two transactions were requested as follows:
- a partial encashment of £2,238.41, which was completed and the funds were sent 
to Miss Cs bank account
- re-investment of £4,000 into a stocks and shares ISA. FL said that due to the fund 
value decreasing, in the event £3,946.50 was reinvested and that it issued a letter 
on 23 February 2022 confirming this, along with plan documents and a cancellation 
notice. 
FL said that Miss C had completed online instructions to set up the ISA and its records 
showed thered been no technical issues affecting customers generally when Miss C said 
she been unable to open documents using her mobile phone. 
Miss C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator reached broadly the 
same conclusion as FL. She said, in brief:
she could see from the information provided that there was a log in to Miss Cs 
account on 21 February 2022 at 14.21 and the reinvestment and encashment were 
completed at 14.28.
This log in was from the same IP address as all other log ins on Miss Cs account 
using an email address which matched Miss Cs email and home address.
In order for the encashment and reinvestment to be completed, Miss C wouldve had 
to tick a confirmation box before continuing.
The screens she wouldve seen explained how final value would be calculated and 
that this amount could change as per FLs terms and conditions.
FLs letter to Miss C dated 23 February 2022 detailed the plan closure and 
reinvestment and it was reasonable to assume that if Miss C didnt request this 
reinvestment, she wouldve queried the letter. 
The letter also included a cancellation notice, informing Miss C of her right to change 
her mind about the ISA investment, but there was no indication that she had made 
use of this option. 
Miss C didnt accept the investigators view. She mainly said that: 
- there was no box to tick regarding the reinvestment  and even a tick box does not 
represent consent as anyone could do that
- the encashment was totally separate to the reinvestment
- just uploading a letter online wasnt sufficient
- as no paper letter was sent to her home address, she couldnt have known the 
monies had been reinvested unless she looked at the account again  and she 
hadnt done that as shed never agreed to the reinvestment.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Miss C feels about this complaint. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything that Miss C has 
brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of her concerns in my own words. But I will 
comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited or contradictory information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our 
website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
Its my understanding that the core of Miss Cs complaint is that she was never asked to 
authorise the stocks and shares ISA investment and that FLs online processes are unclear, 
unfit for purpose and they dont work properly on her phone, which she uses to access her 
account.  
Miss C put things this way: It should not be an industry  norm for a tick box which could 
have been done by anyone to class as an instruction to invest in a risk product. That is not 
treating customers fairly. 
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate. I do not have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). For 
these reasons I wont be responding to Miss Cs concerns about the way FL operates and its 
procedures.
In order to uphold Miss Cs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that FL has done 
something wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable, so thats the approach 
I've taken. But I havent seen enough here to do so. Ill explain my reasons.- The information Ive seen about FLs online process for re-investment shows that 
Miss C wouldve had to carry out the necessary steps online before this could 
happen.  
- This was Miss Cs account so I dont agree that anyone could have done this  only 
someone with the knowledge needed to access her account, such as the password 
for instance, could have logged in and it was up to Miss C not to share that 
information with anyone else. On balance, the information Ive seen doesnt support a 
finding that an unauthorised person made this re-investment.
- The steps Miss C had to complete included selecting a series of options and 
providing information to confirm eligibility. The screens she wouldve seen and had to 
fill in to proceed with her application included access to information about the 
product. For example, one of the screens she wouldve seen at the start of the 
process included a link to: What is a stocks and shares ISA? So Miss C was able to 
find out information about this before she completed the application. 
- A later screen included the following information: As with all stock market investment 
the value of your Plan can fall as well as rise. Next to this, Miss C had to tick a box to 
confirm she was happy to proceed. The application could have not proceeded if 
Miss C had not ticked this box. 
- On this page there was also a link to the ISA terms and conditions which explained: 
Contributions will be invested in the Fund(s) selected for your plan. The investment 
objectives of the Fund(s) are set out in the key information Document of the Forester 
Life ISA. 
- So I find that Miss C was able to access enough information to be able to decide 
whether this fund was right for her and by completing the online application, she 
indicated that she wanted to apply for this investment product.
- There was no requirement for FL to obtain any other sort of authorisation from 
Miss C (such as a signed paper authority or a digital signature).  
- Ive been provided with screenshots showing the online screen journey she needed 
to complete. Miss C wouldve seen and agreed to FLs terms of business when she 
signed up to be able to use FLs My Plans online service. 
- I've taken into account that Miss C said she had no reason to log in to her account 
because she hadnt requested the stocks and shares ISA investment, but thats not a 
good enough reason for me to uphold her complaint.
- There was no requirement for FL to send Miss C letters in the post to her home 
address. The online service she used provided for important notifications to be 
posted in the secure messages part of her My Plans account and she had the option 
to sign up to be kept informed about products and services via email and/or sms 
messaging. In line with the account terms and conditions, FL sent an email to alert 
Miss C and prompt her to login to read the secure message it sent her on 
23 February 2022 and the onus was on Miss C to check her account. Had she done 
so, she couldve seen the information showing that shed reinvested in the stocks and 
shares ISA and queried this and/or cancelled within the cooling off period if it wasnt 
what she wanted. -FL checked to find out if it was aware of any technical issues that had prevented its 
customers looking at documents on their accounts at this time  if it had known there 
was a problem, then I would have expected it to notify its My Plans account holders 
and make alternative arrangements for them to receive important notifications they 
couldnt access online. But FL has confirmed it was aware of no such issues and it 
had no record of other customers complaining about this. In these circumstances, 
I think it's fair to say that if Miss C knew she had a problem opening documents on 
FLs My Plans account, it was up to her to contact FL about this. Had she done so, 
FL might have been able to help her resolve the issue or other options might have 
included sending her the information by email or through the post. So I dont find that 
FL did anything wrong when it didnt send Miss C a hard copy of the 23 February 
2022 letter and enclosures through the post. 
As Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons I have explained above, it follows that I cant 
award the compensation Miss C would like me to. 
I recognise that Miss C will be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my 
conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome she hoped for, Miss C will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman