DRN-4288360
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr G with a loan for £3,000.00 in January 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £158.17. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G 
and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be upheld.  
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr G could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Gs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr G could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr G has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Mr G didnt have that much in the way of active credit commitments and 
what he did have was relatively well maintained. Mr G did have some defaulted accounts but 
these were historic and the overwhelming majority of these had been settled.
I accept that Mr G appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. Indeed Mr G has even gone further and said that he lied on his application. He 
also says that had Likely Loans obtained copies of his bank statements it would have seen 
why he just said anything in order to get his loan and why he was never in a position to 
repay it. 
I also understand that Mr G has since gone on to take out a number of other loans and hes 
in a debt management plan. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. What Mr G is now saying simply wasnt 
reflected in the information Likely Loans obtained. 
Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of recent 
difficulty in the information Likely Loans did obtain, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into requesting copies of Mr Gs bank statements 
in the way that he is suggesting. At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were 
necessary, which Im not necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would 
only have gone as far as finding out more about Mr Gs regular living costs. And I dont think 
that obtaining bank statements was the only way that Likely Loans could have done this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr G - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman