DRN-3176624
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 have complained about their mortgage held with Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax). Mr S1 has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and 
Mr S2. Mr S1 has complained about the following matters:
he had to ask Halifax to provide him with an electronic copy of a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR);
his is unhappy that Halifax had made a payment of £1,445.36 to the freeholders 
solicitors in July 2020;
he is concerned at Halifaxs demands for documentation to prove he lives in the 
mortgaged property.
To settle the complaint Mr S1 and Mr S2 want Halifax to pay them compensation and to 
accept that Mr S1 lives in the property.
Mr S1 has raised various complaints with Halifax about the way the bank has handled his 
mortgage account. On 10 November 2021 I issued a decision in which I explained that the 
only three issues I am able to look at are the three listed above.
What happened
In 2007 Mr S1 and Mr S2 took out an interest-only mortgage with Halifax. They borrowed 
£388,499 (including fees) over a term of five years. The mortgage term expired in 2012.
In late 2019/early 2020 Mr S1 made a complaint that the documents hed received through 
making a DSAR were illegible and that he would like an electronic copy. In its final response 
letter dated 9 January 2020, Halifax apologised and said it would arrange for Mr S1 to 
receive an electronic copy of the DSAR.
Halifax also explained in that letter what documentation Mr S1 would need to provide in 
order to satisfy the bank that the property was not being rented out.
In August 2020 Mr S1 complained that Halifax had made a payment to the freeholders 
solicitors in relation to ground rent and insurance totalling £1,455.36. Halifax had written to 
Mr S1 on 13 July 2020 letting him know about the demand for payment. The bank asked him 
to respond by 31 July 2020. It wasnt until 4 August 2020 that Mr S1 let the bank know hed 
been on holiday and couldnt reply sooner. Mr S1 said he was in dispute with the freeholder. 
However, Halifax had made the payment the day before, on 3 August 2020.
In its final response letter of 24 September 2020, Halifax agreed to remove the £1,455.36 
from the mortgage account, as no legal proceedings had been started, nor any steps taken 
by the freeholder to forfeit the lease. There is no information about whether Halifax was able 
to recover the payment made to the solicitors, or whether Mr S1 and Mr S2 have benefitted 
from this.
Mr S1 also considered Halifax was acting unreasonably in demanding proof he is living in 
the property. Halifax has said that it is entitled to establish whether or not the property is 
Mr S1s residence, as this is a residential mortgage.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about what Halifax had 
done. Mr S1 reiterated his concerns about Halifax and also said that, as the mortgage term 
had expired, Halifaxs terms and conditions were unenforceable. An investigator looked at 
the complaint. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The investigator was 
satisfied that Halifax had acted reasonably in removing the fees it had paid to the 
freeholders solicitors from the mortgage account. She was satisfied the mortgage terms and 
conditions remained in force. The investigator also thought it was reasonable for Halifax to 
request proof of address, particularly as Mr S1 had told her his sister had been living in the 
property. The investigator found that Halifax had sent Mr S1 a link to an electronic DSAR 
and so had resolved this issue.
Mr S1 was unhappy at the investigators findings. He said that he had raised this as a 
hypothetical situation where a party to the mortgage could allow a family member to reside in 
the property but this wouldnt constitute a commercial rental. Mr S1 was adamant that he 
had never told the investigator that his sister was, in fact, living in the property. 
Mr S1 also said that unless Halifax states in the contract that all terms will be enforceable 
unless the principal is paid, then the mortgage terms and conditions cannot be enforced. In a 
telephone conversation with the investigator, Mr S1 also said that Halifax has committed 
fraud and that he intends to pursue private litigation about this.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, in relation to the terms and conditions, the debt has not been paid in full, and the 
contract therefore has not come to an end. I appreciate Mr S1 thinks differently, and I have 
listened to what he claims are  the facts about this during his telephone conversation with 
the investigator. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to determine whether or 
not a contract is enforceable and Mr S1 is, of course, free to pursue this element of his 
argument in court, if he wishes to do so. Mr S1 might want to take advice from a qualified 
solicitor before attempting to raise this argument in court.
Im satisfied that Halifax is entitled, as a general principle of law, to apply the terms and 
conditions of the contract, until the debt is repaid. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
In relation to Mr S1s recent comments concerning alleged fraud by Halifax, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service has no power to investigate allegations of criminal behaviour. If Mr S1 
believes the bank has committed fraud, hell need to refer this to the police or the courts.
Im satisfied that Halifax has resolved the issue in relation to the payment made to the 
freeholders solicitors. The payment was refunded. As there has been no actual financial 
loss, I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
Halifax has also sent Mr S1 an electronic link for his DSAR. There is nothing further I require 
the bank to do in relation to this part of the complaint.Mr S1 believes Halifax is acting unreasonably in asking for proof of residence. This ties in 
with Mr S1s (mistaken) belief that there is no longer any mortgage contract and so Halifax 
has no justification for asking for this information. As Ive stated above, it would be for a court 
to determine whether or not there is any enforceable contract. My remit is to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
I understand Mr S1 believes the freeholder, with whom he has been in dispute in the past, 
reported to Halifax that the property was tenanted. Mr S1 insists it is his sole UK residence, 
although I note he lives abroad. Clearly I cant determine who actually lives in the property, 
but I am able to decide whether its reasonable for Halifax to ask for proof of residence.
Mr S1 is correct in saying that if his sister had been living in the property, the utility bills 
would be in her name. But as Mr S1 insists she is not, nor has ever been, living in the 
property, this is a moot point. It is therefore reasonable to assume that utilities such as gas, 
electricity and water bills, and council tax, will be in Mr S1s name. Mr S1 says he no longer 
has any utility bills or record of his occupancy of the property since 2015. Im not persuaded 
Mr S1 is unable to obtain past records from his utility providers, or from the local authority in 
relation to council tax on the property. I think its reasonable for Halifax to ask for 
documentation which shows Mr S1s actual occupancy of the property. I dont uphold this 
part of the complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S1 and Mr S2 were hoping for. However, Im satisfied 
that Halifax has resolved the issues relating to the payment to the freeholders solicitors and 
in respect of the electronic copy of the DSAR, and that it is reasonable for Halifax to ask for 
proof of occupation of the property by Mr S1. In the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman