DRN-4524862
The complaint
Ms B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited acted irresponsibly in offering 
her catalogue shopping accounts that were unaffordable for her.
What happened
Ms B took out a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct under its Littlewoods brand in 
November 2018, initially with a limit of £400.
Ms B also had an account under the very brand, initially a cash account opened in 2015. 
She applied for a credit account in 2019, and Shop Direct offered her a limit of £600.
The limits of the accounts were changed as follows:
Date Littlewoods very Total credit limit 
with Shop Direct
November 2018 £400 £400
January 2019 £375 £375
February 2019 £300
March 2019 £200 £200
August 2019 £700 £700
October 2019 £600 £1,300
April 2020 £1,000 £800 £1,800
August 2020 £1,300 £2,300
October 2020 £2,000 £3,300
May 2021 £3,000 £4,300
April 2022 £2,225 £3,555
Ms B struggled to make her repayments from February 2022 onwards, and the accounts 
were defaulted in August 2022.
Shop Direct didnt issue a final response to Ms Bs complaint within the timeframe set by the 
regulator, so Ms B referred her complaint to our service.
When it responded to our service about the complaint, Shop Direct told us that when Ms B 
applied for each account it assessed information sourced from credit bureaus, and the limits 
were offered based on its findings. It said that Ms B received periodic increases in the credit 
limits, and it assessed her account each time it offered an increased credit limit.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She thought that Shop Direct had acted 
reasonably in offering the initial credit to Ms B, but that by August 2020 it was apparent that 
she was struggling to manage the existing credit limit. She therefore thought Shop Direct 
should refund any interest and charges incurred as a result of any increases after that date.
In response, Ms B said that she had two or three county court judgments against her at the 
time shed taken out the accounts  so she didnt think Shop Direct had conducted the 
checks it said it had.
Shop Direct disagreed with the Investigators findings. It said that both accounts were being 
managed well  there had been one missed payment on the Littlewoods account in 
December 2019, but they were otherwise up to date. It also reviewed the information from 
credit reference agencies and said that it appeared to them Ms Bs position had improved, 
for example her defaulted balance had reduced from £2,077 to £49.
As our Investigator couldnt resolve things, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint in full. In the 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered the relevant rules and guidance on responsible lending set by the 
regulator, laid out in the consumer credit handbook (CONC). In summary, these say 
that when  Shop Direct first offered each catalogue account  and each time it 
offered a credit limit increase  it needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Ms B would be able to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way, without borrowing further elsewhere. As these were open ended accounts, 
Shop Direct also needed to consider whether Ms B would be able to repay the debt 
within a reasonable period.
The information Shop Direct provided our Investigator indicated that when it had 
conducted checks with credit reference agencies prior to offering the Littlewoods 
account in 2018, those checks had shown that she had three defaulted accounts. 
The information provided to our Investigator also indicated that the checks conducted 
prior to offering the very account in 2019 showed that Miss Bs existing credit 
commitments had only been fully up to date in seven months of the previous two 
years, and she had two defaulted accounts.
The information didnt indicate when the accounts had been defaulted, and 
suggested she had no county court judgments.
Following our Investigators opinion, Shop Direct provided further information from 
credit reference agencies it held from during the life of Ms Bs accounts. That 
information shows that  on each occasion, before it offered either account - one of 
the defaults had occurred just one month prior to Ms Bs application. The data Shop 
Direct provided also show that Ms B county court judgments against her of over 
£11,400 on taking out the Littlewoods account, and this had grown to over £11,600 
prior to her taking out the very account.
Its unfortunate Shop Direct didnt provide our Investigator accurate information about 
the checks it conducted prior to deciding to lend, or what those checks found.I think that Shop Direct should have been prompted to conduct further checks by the 
fact that Ms B had an account defaulted so recently prior to each of the applications, 
and asked for copies of her bank statements to verify her income and expenditure. 
So, Ive considered Ms Bs bank statements for the three months prior to both 
applications.
Those statements show that Ms B was using her overdraft facility on a daily basis, 
largely close to its agreed limit, and paying to do so. Ms Bs salary was lower than 
her agreed overdraft limit, so she was continually using credit that it doesnt appear 
Shop Direct took into account when deciding whether or not the accounts were 
sustainably affordable for her. And it means that Ms B would be making her 
payments to the accounts with Shop Direct by borrowing further from her overdraft.
I think Ms Bs overdraft usage is a sign that she was experiencing financial stress. I 
think that, had Shop Direct conducted proportionate checks, it would have found that 
the catalogue accounts were not sustainably affordable for her.
For these reasons, I am upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Both parties responded accepting my provisional decision.
Shop Direct clarified that it did not believe it hadnt provided our Investigator with inaccurate 
information. It explained that prior to lending it conducts checks with one particular credit 
reference agency, which didnt show any county court judgment balance. It said during the 
life of the accounts it also considered information from a further credit reference agency  
which included the information about the county court judgment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Shop Direct for the clarity about the checks it conducts prior to offering an 
account. As both parties accepted my decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different 
conclusion. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Shop Direct should liaise with the third party debt collection agency to 
transfer the debt back to themselves. It should then:
Rework the accounts removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded).
If the rework results in credit balances, these should be refunded to Ms B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Shop Direct should also remove all adverse information regarding 
the accounts from Ms Bs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is an outstanding balance, Shop Direct should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms B for the remaining account. Once Ms B has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customers requires that Shop Direct deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Frances Young
Ombudsman