DRN-3768208
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
(TPWM) to transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 22 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr R with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £423,489.99.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF or move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr R says he contacted TPWM for advice about his pension, as a lot of his colleagues were 
taking advice given the uncertainty regarding the scheme.
TPWM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and 
objectives. Mr R was 47, in good health, living with his partner and had one dependent child. 
He was employed earning around £37,000 per year, with his partner also employed. He had 
a mortgage for just under £60,000 with a remaining term of 13 years as well as personal 
loans totalling roughly £28,000. Mr R had savings and premium bonds worth around £5,000. 
Their household income exceeded their monthly expenditure.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr R was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution scheme. TPWM didnt record ay information about the contributions 
being made to that plan. Rather it just said its value at the time was around £2,000.
TPWM said Mr R hoped to retire at age 55. He would then look to clear his outstanding 
debts using tax-free cash (TFC) after which he expected to need an income of £13,692 per 
year. It said he was looking to transfer so that he had control over his pension and the 
flexibility to access benefits from 55 without restriction so that he could meet these goals. It 
also noted that the spouses pension was not needed as he wasnt married, and he was 
interested in alternative death benefits which could benefit his partner and daughter.
TPWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. 
On 10 November 2017, TPWM advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a True 
Potential SIPP and invest in a particular fund. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were it would allow Mr R to take varying levels of income throughout his 
retirement and enable him to pass the fund on to his beneficiaries in the event of his death. 
TPWM was also to provide ongoing servicing of the pension, for a further cost.
Mr R complained in 2022 to TPWM about the suitability of the transfer advice.  TPWM didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it believed the advice was suitable based on Mr Rs 
objectives at the time. And it said an independent review of the advice supported this. 
Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He felt Mr R was likely to receive 
lower benefits at retirement by transferring, because of the high returns needed to match the 
benefits he was giving up. And he didnt think any of the other reasons for transferring meant 
it was in his best interests. So, he recommended that TPWM compensate Mr R for any 
losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £300 for the distress hed incurred.
TPWM didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It said it was 
required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr R, which it 
thought it had done, not guarantee that it would be. It said the Investigator had used a 
significant degree of hindsight, which it thought was unreasonable. TPWM still considered 
the transfer was suitable, based on what Mr R had said about his objectives. And it 
disagreed with the Investigator that it was too far from Mr Rs retirement for his plans and 
needs to be known. It also argued that Mr R had made a fully informed decision to proceed 
with the transfer. And it said that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the 
advice. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred for 
a final decision.
TPWM then said, although it didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, it would potentially 
look to make an offer to resolve matters. It said it had carried out a calculation in January 
2023 and didnt think Mr R had suffered a loss. So, it would pay the amount recommended 
for distress. I understand Mr R still wanted his case to be decided by an ombudsman, so it 
has been referred to me.
Since then, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator. Our Investigator made both parties aware of this and that we may 
require this to be used for any calculation of redress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TPWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
TPWM says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr R. I agree that under COBS, TPWM was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr R was suitable for him (COBS 
9.2.1). But it was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his 
best interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that TPWM should only have 
considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was 
in Mr Rs best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im 
not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
TPWM was required, by the regulator, to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS). 
This included calculating critical yields which showed how much Mr Rs pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme. 
TPWM calculated critical yields to match the benefits that the BSPS2 and PPF would 
provide at age 65, the scheme normal retirement age, and age 55, the age at which it 
says Mr R was interested in retiring. 
The critical yield to match the full starting pension the BSPS2 wouldve paid from age 
65 was 5.7%. And to match the maximum TFC and reduced starting pension the 
BSPS2 wouldve provided it ws 4.78%. To match the full starting pension the PPF 
wouldve provided the critical yield was 4.58% and to match the maximum TFC and 
reduced pension from the PPF was 4.28%.
For retiring at 55, the critical yields to match the benefits from the BSPS2 were 
8.48% for the full annual starting pension and 6.51% for maximum TFC and a 
reduced starting pension. For the benefits the PPF wouldve offered the relevant 
critical yields were 6.72% and 6.25% respectively.The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. TPWM has said it was not required to consider these discount rates. But the 
regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB 
scheme with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable 
assumptions. And the discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, 
while TPWM was not obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a 
reasonable assumption to consider. And TPWM was free to consider it. The relevant 
discount rate at the time was 4.4% for 17 years to retirement  relevant if Mr R retired 
at age 65. And for 7 years to retirement  retiring at age 55  it was 3.4%
There would be little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here given Mr Rs balanced attitude to risk, the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% 
for low medium and high rate returns respectively, I think he was always unlikely to 
improve on the benefits hed have received under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the 
normal retirement age, by transferring. And if he had retired early, I think Mr R was 
likely to receive benefits of lower value than hed have been entitled to under the 
BSPS2 or the PPF.
TPWM has said we have placed too much weight on an analysis of the critical yield 
and the discount rate. And in the suitability report it sent to Mr R it said it felt the 
critical yield for retiring at age 55 was inflated and not a true reflection of the value of 
the plan. As the regulator required TPWM to calculate critical yields and consider the 
cost of the guarantees being given up, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a 
relevant consideration here. And I think its statement to Mr R, downplaying the 
importance of this apparently because it was deemed unachievable, was misleading. 
And the critical yields arent the only thing that, in my view, indicates Mr R would be 
worse off in retirement by transferring. The TVAS said that to purchase an annuity at 
age 55 to match the TFC and reduced pension the BSPS2 wouldve offered would 
cost an estimated £585,912.75. And to match an annuity paying equivalent benefits 
to the full pension, this figure would be £676,359.43. A personalised illustration for 
the SIPP said though that if the mid-rate of growth was achieved until age 55, after 
accounting for fees and charges, the value of the SIPP was likely to only be 
£431,000. And if high growth was achieved it would still only be £537,000  both 
significantly below what would be needed to replicate the guaranteed benefits that 
hed given up. So overall, I think Mr R was always likely to be worse off in retirement 
by transferring.
TPWM said that Mr R wanted to retire at age 55, he wanted flexibility to be able to 
access his benefits without penalty and vary his income to meet his requirements. It 
also said he needed access to TFC so that hed be able to clear his mortgage and 
loans at that time and reduce his outgoings.
Mr R couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 55. It is true that 
these wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact 
that benefits wouldve been payable for longer than if he waited until his normal 
retirement age. This reduction was not a penalty. And I dont think TPWM did enough 
to make that clear to Mr R.TPWM estimated that under the BSPS2 Mr R couldve taken £68,402 in TFC and an 
annual pension starting at £10,260. Or under the PPF he couldve taken TFC of 
£75,473.97 and a starting pension of £11,350.09. In response to the complaint, it 
said neither of these options wouldve allowed Mr R to meet his objectives and that 
he was aware of that. But in the suitability report TPWM said in respect of both the 
income is sufficient to meet your retirement expenditure. 
Mr R had debts of around £88,000 at the time of the advice, made up of his mortgage 
and personal loans  which is what TPWM says he wanted to clear with TFC at age 
55. But when he came to retire at that age, these debts were likely to be significantly 
reduced. Mr R had over seven years until he could access benefits from his pension. 
In that time, hed have needed to continue with repayments to his debts. Based on 
the repayment figures that TPWM recorded in the fact find, in that time his 
repayments across his debts wouldve exceeded £66,000. And there was no 
suggestion he was struggling to make these payments as his income exceeded his 
outgoings. Its true that the debts wouldve incurred interest, so the reduction to the 
balances wouldnt have equated to the full amount of the repayments. But, on 
balance it appears likely that the amount he would need to repay at age 55 was likely 
to be a lot lower. And that the TFC offered by the BSPS2 or the PPF wouldve been 
sufficient to clear these, with a sizeable surplus left over. And that was before even 
accounting for any overpayments Mr R might choose to make in the time until 
retirement  which given he had surplus income, was an option for him.
The annual income that both the BSPS2 and PPF wouldve paid from age 55 after 
taking TFC were both lower than Mr Rs estimated income need of £13,692. But the 
income from the DB scheme wouldve continued to escalate while in payment. And 
Mr R was likely to have other provisions he could access. 
From age 67 hed have received state pension, which, combined with his DB 
scheme, wouldve likely been sufficient to meet his needs from that point.
As Ive said, based on repayments hed be making to his debts, it appears likely that 
Mr R couldve cleared the balances and had a sizeable portion of his TFC still 
available to use towards his income needs until he received his state pension.
Mr R was a member of his employers new workplace pension. And it is reasonable 
to expect hed have continued to build pension benefits, either through this scheme 
or with another employer if he moved roles, until he retired. TPWM failed to record 
any information about the level of contributions being made to this, which I think was 
a failing on its part. In similar complaints Ive seen, combined employer and 
employee contributions tend to be between 10% and 16%, although they can be 
higher. Even assuming contributions at 10%, and before accounting for increases in 
salary, contributions, or investment growth, Mr R was likely to have a pension pot 
through this scheme of roughly £26,000, which he couldve accessed flexibly.
And Mr R was recorded as having an income surplus each month. The figures 
TPWM stated in the suitability report suggested that this surplus was almost £900 per 
month. Whereas the figures in the fact find put this surplus at just over £350 per 
month (although some of the spending was recorded as savings). Even assuming 
the lower surplus figure, this indicates Mr R couldve built up savings of over £32,000 
prior to retirement, which couldve been used to help meet his income needs.
Taking all of this into account I dont think Mr R needed to transfer in order to retire 
early. And I dont think he had a genuine need to be able to vary his income in 
retirement. Rather I think this was just a feature of a personal pension which mightve sounded appealing at the time. But TPWMs role wasnt that of wish fulfilment, it was 
to give Mr R objective advice about what was in his best interests.
And, in any event, Mr R was still several years away from when he could retire. I 
dont doubt that Mr R likely aspired to retire early. I think, when asked, most people 
would say they would like to do so. But, for the majority, early retirement means a 
significant drop in income. So, when it had come to it, he mayve felt differently or 
opted not to retire early. And so, I think it was too soon for Mr R to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme. Particularly when he had the 
option of joining the BSPS2, because by joining it he would retain the option to 
transfer out at a later date if his circumstances required it.
TPWM says the lump sum death benefits afforded by a personal pension, and the 
option of being able to leave his pension to his family, particularly his daughter, 
appealed to Mr R. But TPWMs priority should have been to advise Mr R about what 
was best for his retirement, not what was the best vehicle to leave a legacy on his 
death.
Mr Rs DB scheme provided a spouses pension. TPWM downplayed the significance 
of this and said it would never come into payment as Mr R was not married to his 
partner. But he was still relatively young and his marital status couldve changed  
and I understand he is now married. TPWM has suggested that Mr R was less 
concerned with leaving benefits to his partner at the time, but I dont think this meant 
completely disregarding the potentially valuable spouses pension was appropriate.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. It wouldve been impacted by investment performance and wouldve been 
reduced by income Mr R drew in his lifetime. Given TPWMs recommendation was 
based on Mr R expecting to draw 25% of this fund immediately at age 55 and then 
draw a higher income for at least the first twelve years of his retirement and that Mr R 
was still relatively young and was recorded as being in good health, the fund was 
likely to be significantly depleted by the time it came to be passed on, if not utilised 
entirely. So, it may not have provided the legacy Mr R mightve thought it would.
And if Mr R was concerned about leaving a legacy, insurance couldve been explored 
instead. This couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. And, given Mr R had a surplus 
income and was recorded as being in good health, was likely to be a viable 
alternative. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was 
in Mr Rs best interests. And ultimately TPWM should not have encouraged Mr R to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over 
his security in retirement. 
TPWM said Mr R wished to take control of his pension. But I think Mr Rs desire for 
control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own  indeed it was 
recorded he had no previous investment experience. And the recommendation was 
on the understanding he was going to take ongoing advice about how his pension 
was invested from TPWM. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr R 
 it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr R was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what was happening. But again, 
TPWMs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Rs employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr R intended to continue in his job and 
was paying into a new pension scheme with his employer. So, the relationship may 
not have irretrievably broken down as suggested.
Mr R may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide 
better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr R the option to transfer closer to 
retirement. TPWM has said that the BSPS2 was not confirmed at the time of the 
advice so was not a genuine option for Mr R. But I think it is overstating the chance of 
this not happening. The restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant 
amount of time by the point it gave advice. Actions had been agreed with the 
pensions regulator and carried out as scheduled  not least a significant lump sum 
payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved transfer value 
quotations. And members had been sent time to choose letters, with opting into the 
BSPS2 one of the options offered to them. So, based on what had happened to that 
point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 
would go ahead.
But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr R with a guaranteed 
income and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr R was unlikely to improve 
on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he 
mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Rs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
TPWM says that Mr R made an informed decision to transfer. So, Ive thought carefully 
about whether Mr R would always have looked to proceed. I can see that TPWM did give 
information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. 
But ultimately, it advised Mr R to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If TPWM, a 
professional adviser whose expertise he had sought out, had explained why it wasnt in his 
best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr R received from TPWM was 
unsuitable.
While Mr R indicated to TPWM he would like to retire early, his circumstances couldve 
changed, and I dont think his plans were finalised. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr R wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2. So, I think, had he received suitable advice not to transfer, I think Mr R wouldve 
opted into the BSPS2. And I think TPWM should compensate him on this basis.
Our Investigator recommended that TPWM also pay Mr R £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr R has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the TPWM to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
TPWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
TPWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what TPWM 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the schemes 
normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TPWM should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
this DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts TPWMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, TPWM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, TPWM should pay Mr R £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman