DRN-4430430
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank Plc unfairly blocked a payment he needed to make to enable 
him to import goods, and he said the consequences of this cost him a lot of money.
What happened
Mr T arranged an agent to ship a container of his goods to another country. He tried to pay 
the £2,700 fee for this online, but it repeatedly failed, even though he had enough money in 
his account. TSB messaged Mr T to say his payment was under review. He went to a branch 
of TSB in the UK to make the transfer, but it still didnt go through, instead they questioned 
him, which he found embarrassing.
Mr T said TSB promised him his transaction was ready and would complete from his mobile 
App, but he received a message that TSB will not make the payment. Mr T went abroad to 
receive his goods, but couldnt pay for their release. He called TSB several times about the 
problems he faced for non-payment as the agent wouldnt release the container. He said he 
incurred additional charges, and his customers did not buy from him. He said he couldnt pay 
for his container by other means and TSB wouldnt help him. He said it took a month to pay 
the charges, but they had greatly increased, and he was stranded and sick.  
Mr T said he had to leave his goods with other people, but later discovered that his van, 
which he was selling, had been misused and damaged. He said he couldnt understand why 
TSB had acted this way and he complained and said TSB should compensate him for his 
loss and damages, including £10,000 for his expenses and pain and suffering. 
TSB said it acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account which give it authority 
to block a transaction when concerned about its authenticity. TSB said security checks are 
implemented by the fraud system and it has no control over the number of checks applied. It 
said Mr Ts payment flagged on its system for possible fraud and his call cut off while they 
were transferring him to its fraud department, and he didnt call back. But TSB said Mr T had 
called several times before to get the block removed and he hadnt received good customer 
service. TSB paid Mr T £50 compensation and invited him to submit any expenses incurred 
because of the difficulties he encountered.  
Mr T wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said TSB had legitimate concerns about 
Mr Ts payment and blocked it in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and 
following due diligence checks to show it could be at risk of being fraudulent. She said TSB 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner and in line with industry standards.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator. He said TSB wasnt justified in blocking the transaction 
and its reasons were inadequate. Mr T said TSB had acknowledged its lapse in delivering 
satisfactory customer service which led to his losses and its compensation of £50 speaks 
volume of their guilt. He said TSB wouldnt provide a record of their previous conversation in 
which it promised further details. Mr T requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about the financial and health problems Mr T has faced as a 
consequence of his blocked transaction and I hope he has insurance to cover some of this. 
Ive looked at the transaction Mr T tried to carry out and TSBs handling of it by blocking it 
three times, to see if TSB acted within the terms and conditions of the account and to see if it 
has treated him fairly.
Banks are subject to regulatory requirements to prevent fraud on their systems and are 
required to protect their customers. TSB has explained that where a transaction is deemed 
to be high risk then it can be flagged even if a security check has previously been carried 
out. This is in order to protect customers and TSB from falling foul of financial crime. 
I have looked at TSBs terms and conditions for Mr Ts account. These state that TSB may 
block payments, if: 
were worried about the security of your card or security details
we think your card or security details are being used by someone else or are at risk 
of being used by someone else
you do not pass our security checks for example by entering your security details or 
using a One Time Password we send you when you try to use your debit card online
we think fraud is happening on your account
theres a significantly increased risk that you wont be able to pay us back any money 
you owe us
if you do not provide us with identification to allow us to verify your identity within a 
reasonable time after weve asked you to do this.
Its clear from these terms that TSB had the authority of the contract to take the actions it did 
towards Mr Ts transaction. And I think it would have acted similarly with any other customer 
in his circumstances. 
TSB has shared with us confidential information from its security file as to the reasons Mr Ts 
transaction was blocked and said this was for additional reasons each time. I cant share that 
with Mr T, but can assure him TSB had reasons to block the transaction in line with its 
normal approach to high-risk transactions. I can see that the transaction in question is not 
the only one of Mr Ts transactions to be blocked by TSB and it has pointed out that Mr Ts 
transaction and losses are all business related, whereas his is a personal account. It said his 
transactions would be less likely to fail if he had correctly operated a business account. TSB 
also said that Mr T didnt complete requirements with its fraud department. 
TSB has acknowledged minor issues with its customer service in connection with Mr Ts 
calls and said that the service it provided couldve been better. In this respect, TSB paid Mr 
T £50 compensation. This is a long way short of Mr Ts suggestion that TSB had 
acknowledged that its lapses had led to his losses, with compensation that spoke volumes of 
its guilt. 
From my review of its records I havent found any evidence of the need for TSB to 
recompense Mr T for the consequences of his blocked transaction. This accords with TSB 
maintaining that it acted correctly in taking the blocking actions. However, TSB invited Mr T 
to submit any expenses incurred because of the difficulties he encountered, such as phone 
charges. It says he hasnt done so, but I think the offer remains open to him.  I agree with the investigator that banks have a difficult balance to strike, they have a 
responsibility to act on a customers instructions, but also need to take steps to protect them 
from financial harm from fraud. This means I would expect TSB to stop any transactions if it 
has concerns that the consumer or the bank may be at risk of financial harm. As I think TSB 
has acted within the terms and conditions of the account and treated Mr T fairly, I cant fairly 
hold TSB responsible for the wider financial and health impacts its decision has had on Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman