DRN-3386221
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected a claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around March 2019 Mr and Ms M were contacted by a company Ill call P to talk about 
buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After a visit from a 
representative of P, Mr and Ms M decided to buy the system, and to finance it through a 10-
year fixed sum loan from Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In May 2020 Mr and Ms M made a claim to Shawbrook under section 75 of the Act. They 
said that P had made a number of representations about the system which had turned out 
not to be true. And they said it was these misrepresentations that had induced them to enter 
into the contract with P. Theyve made the following points:
they were told that the system and battery would provide a monthly saving of £80 on 
their energy bills, but their bills have actually increased and they cant afford the 
payments;
P sent them a copy of the contract, but they found it very confusing, so they spoke to 
the sales representative, who assured them theyd save money in line with what he 
discussed with them;
once they realised, shortly after installation, that the system wasnt providing the 
savings they were promised, they contacted P who told them this was due to the 
battery not yet being fitted;
the battery was fitted after five months, but they still werent receiving the savings 
theyd been led to expect;
P sent engineers to check the system to try to improve the performance but nothing 
they did increased the savings; and
P later told them that the contract showed a yearly deficit of £600, contrary to what 
the sales representative told them.
When Mr and Ms M brought their complaint to us, Shawbrook hadnt provided its final 
response to their complaint. When we contacted it, it told us it didnt agree the system had 
been misrepresented to Mr and Ms M or that there was any other reason for the claim to be 
upheld. But its offered to pay Mr and Ms M £200 by way of apology for its delay in dealing 
with their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, they thought that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
and Ms M. So they thought that Shawbrook should compensate Mr and Ms M for their 
financial loss.
Shawbrook didnt respond to the investigators view or provide any further comments. As the 
time for doing so has now expired, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Ms M paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr and Ms M to claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way they could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Ms M and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party, which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
Mr and Ms M have provided several documents from the time of sale. These include a pre-
contract credit information document and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive looked at these in detail, and have considered whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P. 
The quote is a detailed document which sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information.
Mr and Ms M have also provided a handwritten form completed by the sales representative, 
containing information about the benefits of the system.
I havent been provided with a copy of the credit agreement. But Ive seen a copy of the pre-
contract credit information that was given to Mr and Mrs M, and m satisfied, on balance, that 
the details on that match those in the credit agreement. It sets out the amount being 
borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and 
the contractual monthly repayments.Point of sale documentation
Mr and Ms M have given us a detailed account of what happened during the sale. Theyve 
explained that Ps sales representative told them that theyd achieve savings of around £80 
a month on their bills. They say they received the quote after the initial sales meeting and 
were confused by the contents, as it was different from what the sales representative had 
told them. So they asked the sales representative to send them the handwritten form which 
their previous conversation had centred around. A copy of the form is below.
The savings shown on the handwritten form are significantly higher than on the quote. Im 
satisfied, on balance, that the handwritten note reflects what Mr and Ms M say they were told 
by the sales representative. It didnt include any information that would have allowed them to 
compare the stated expected benefits of the system with the monthly cost of their loan 
repayments. So I think theyd have relied heavily on what the sales representative told them. 
And Im satisfied, on balance, that it was the sales representatives verbal representations to 
Mr and Ms M that induced them to enter into the contract with P.
The quote shows an estimated year one benefit (made up of income and savings to Mr and 
Ms M) of £798.04.
Mr and Ms M have provided their meter reading, which shows that the system has generated 
as predicted in the quote. So I think Mr and Ms M are likely to have received benefits broadly 
in line with the £798.04 shown in the quote. 
Mr and Ms Ms annual loan repayments total £1,625.40. Thats clearly very much higher than 
the benefit theyve been receiving from the system. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Ps sales representative led Mr and Ms M to believe that the benefits from the 
system would be significantly higher than those shown in the quote. Im satisfied that that 
amounted to a misrepresentation by P, and that Mr and Ms M have been financially 
disadvantaged by it.
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation isnt always an exact 
science - and its more difficult in a case like this, where solar panels have been installed at 
the property.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar 
panels and give Mr and Ms M a refund of all the payments made (less any financial benefit 
gained from the installation of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do 
this, given that the panels are working and generating green energy. And I think theres an 
alternative that would put Mr and Ms M in a fair position.
I think that the fairest solution is to ensure that Mr and Ms M dont suffer a financial loss as a 
result of having had the system installed. This means that the solar panel system needs to 
be cost-neutral over the 10-year loan term. In other words, Mr and Ms Ms total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) should be equal to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
Im aware that Mr and Ms M have raised concerns about the performance of the battery that 
was installed to work with the panels. But Im satisfied that the compensation below will 
ensure that they dont lose out financially as a result of having had the system installed.
Putting things right
To put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the loan so that Mr and Ms M pay no more 
than the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Ms M from the solar panels 
over the 10-year term of the loan. And Mr and Ms M should be allowed to keep the solar 
panel system. This will put Mr and Ms M in a cost-neutral position over the loan term, 
meaning that theyre not disadvantaged by the misrepresentation.
If the recalculated loan shows that Mr and Ms M would have paid less each month than they 
have actually paid, Shawbrook should give Mr and Ms M a choice between the following 
options as to how they would like the overpayments theyve made to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment, resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Ms M and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Ms M and they pay a new monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
Shawbrook should pay Mr and Ms M simple interest at 8% per year on the amount of each 
overpayment from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.Finally, Shawbrook should pay Mr and Ms M the £200 compensation it offered them for its 
delay in responding to their complaint, if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman