DRN-1573709
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs S in 2007 in 
connection with a joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs S if they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs?
-    Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs S the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs S say the PPI was presented as part of the overall mortgage package, and that 
they weren't given a proper choice about buying it. They say Halifax told them they had to 
buy the PPI to get the mortgage they wanted. I've noted everything Mr and Mrs S have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Halifax hasn't been able to provide much information from when the policy was sold, which 
isn't surprising given the amount of time that's passed. But from the documentation I have 
seen, there is nothing to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the 
mortgage. 
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs S have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional. 
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt 
work because of sickness or accident, and that their family would've helped them if 
things went wrong. So they don't consider they had any need for the policy. But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs S's employer benefits and would do 
so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean they could use their 
employer benefits to pay for other expenses. And it would mean they didn't have to 
rely on their family. So I think Mr and Mrs S would have had some use for the 
policy despite their existing arrangements.  
Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations.
I can't be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs S before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs S would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman