DRN-2473702
The complaint
Miss W complains that information reported by Target Servicing Limited (TSL), with at least 
two credit reference agencies, is wrong.
What happened
In January 2008 Miss W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement (loan) with a company 
that I will call W for £2,978.63. The loan of £2,978.63 was scheduled to be repaid, 
everything else being equal, at £155.95 a month for 36 months  total repayable £5,614.20.
In July 2008, and having got into financial difficulties, Miss W entered into a debt 
management program administered by a company that I will call P.
Since July 2008 and with the assistance of P Miss W has made regular monthly payments 
towards her loan, albeit it at a reduced amount.
 
In 2013 W stopped reporting information with credit reference agencies in respect of its 
customers loans, including Miss Ws.
In December 2016 Miss W moved.
In June 2018 title of Miss Ws loan was transferred from W to a company that I will call C. A 
letter in this respect was sent to Miss W at her old address by C.
 
In June 2019 C advised Miss W, at her old address, that it would now be reporting 
information in respect of her loan to credit reference agencies.
Shortly after June 2019 Miss W advised C of her new address.
Although title to Miss Ws loan title is held by C, the administration of it  including reporting 
on it to credit reference agencies  is undertaken by TSL.
After referring her complaint to our service, and after various exchanges of information 
between the relevant parties, TSL confirmed to our service that it believed that what it was 
reporting to credit reference agencies, in respect of Miss Ws loan, was correct.
Miss Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
information regarding Miss Ws loan wasnt being reported correctly with at least two credit 
reference agencies. And to put matters right in this respect TSL should, as soon as possible, 
correct what it had reported to these two credit reference agencies and pay Miss W £250 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Miss W responded to the investigator to say that she didnt feel £250 was sufficient 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had suffered, and will continue to 
suffer going forward.
TSL responded to the investigator to say that it didnt agree its reporting was incorrect.
The investigator considered both parties responses and concluded that what TSL should 
have to do, to fairly compensate Miss W, was to correct what it had reported to two credit 
reference agencies and pay Miss W £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss W accepted the investigators revised view but TSL didnt. TSL, in response, reiterated 
that it believed that what it had reported was correct.
Because TSL didnt agree with the investigators view, Miss Ws complaint was passed to 
me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in December 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, and based on what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that 
Miss W has made a payment, albeit at a reduced amount, against her loan for each 
and every month between July 2008 and January 2020 under a debt management 
program and that TSL is aware of her new address. And this is what should be fairly 
reported with credit reference agencies. 
Miss W has provided our service with two credit reports, which show the following 
information:
report 1  February 2020
address old
date updated 04/02/20
default/delinquent balance £1,725
status in arrears
date last delinquent 02/20
payment history
August 2019 6
September 2019 6
October 2019 6
November 2019 6
December 2019 6
January 2020 6
status DEBT MANAGEMNT PROGRAM
explanation The account is being paid as part of a Debt 
Management Programreport 2  November 2019
address old
date updated 01/11/19
July 2019 Missed Payment
August 2019 Missed Payment
September 2019 Missed Payment
October 2019 Missed Payment
November 2019 Missed payment
In my view, and to fairly and reasonably reflect the status of Miss Ws loan, what 
should be reported and recorded, up to and including January 2020 is the following:
report 1  February 2020
address new
date updated
default/delinquent balance £0
status arrangement to pay
date last delinquent
payment history
August 2019 AP
September 2019 AP
October 2019 AP
November 2019 AP
December 2019 AP
January 2020 AP
status DEBT MANAGEMNT PROGRAM
explanation The account is being paid as part of a Debt 
Management Program
report 2  November 2019
address new
date updated
July 2019 AP (or similar)
August 2019 AP (or similar)
September 2019 AP (or similar)
October 2019 AP (or similar)
November 2019 AP (or similar)
Ive concluded the above having had regard, amongst other things, to the following:
Miss W does doesnt appear to have missed a payment against her loan, 
albeit at a reduced amount, between July 2008 and January 2020
what other lenders have reported to credit reference agencies in identical or 
similar circumstanceshad Miss Ws loan been declared as being in default in, or before, 2013 by W 
(when W stopped reporting information with credit reference agencies in 
respect of its customers loans), rather than as delinquent, there would be no 
information being reported at all with credit reference agencies in respect of 
the loan in January 2020 (or now)
that TSL took the decision to start reporting information to credit reference 
agencies in respect of Miss Ws loan some six years, or so, after W had taken 
the decision to stop doing so
I will now turn to what I think TSL should have to pay Miss W for the distress and 
inconvenience this whole matter has caused her. 
Ive considered what Miss W has said and submitted in this respect. In summary she 
says that:
she is concerned a poor credit report could have an adverse effect on her 
employment
other than what has been reported by TSL, her most recent late payment 
marker is dated June 2016
she has been declined an overdraft because of TSLs reporting
she wishes to replace her car but feels she wont be able to because of TSLs 
reporting
Now I find the above submissions to be both plausible and persuasive. So, taking 
everything into account including how long this matter has been going on, I agree 
that to fairly compensate Miss W for what TSL has reported, and continues to report, 
it should have to pay her £500.
TSL responded to say that it had nothing further to say because it felt it was/is reporting 
correctly to credit reference agencies the status and conduct of Miss Ws loan.
Miss W responded to say that in July 2020 an account she holds, with a company that I will 
call N, had been placed on hold meaning that although she was still obliged to make 
monthly payments against it, she could no longer make any new purchases through it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate TSL holds the view that it has, and is, reporting correctly to credit reference 
agencies the status and conduct of Miss Ws loan. But for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision I dont agree, and I remain of the view that amendment to Miss Ws 
credit reports is required.
I accept that in July 2020 an account held by Miss W with N was placed on hold by N. But 
Im not persuaded that the additional distress and inconvenience this has caused  which in 
the main is a block on Miss W being able to make new purchases through the account  
warrants an increase in the sum of £500 I proposed in my provisional decision TSL should 
have to pay her. I would also add that although I appreciate that Miss W probably holds the 
view that her account with N was placed on hold because of what TSL has or is reporting to 
credit reference agencies, N hasnt confirmed this is the case.Putting things right
So, taking everything into account, I see no reason to change the redress I proposed in my 
provisional decision and now confirm this redress as final.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Target Servicing Limited must:
amend Miss Ws credit reports (to January 2020) in line with what I say above
ensure Miss Ws credit reports reflect fairly any payments she has made since 
January 2020
pay her £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman