DRN-3521103
The complaint
Mr B and Mr S, respectively the Treasurer and Secretary of a micro-enterprise Ill call C, 
complain on behalf of C that changes to TSB Bank Plcs internet banking system made it 
inaccessible to Executive members of C who needed to use it as part of their role. Mr B has 
explained theyre now unable to authenticate online payments to new payees and have to 
rely on cheques, causing disruption and inconvenience to Cs activities.
What happened
C held two bank accounts with TSB which they used to deposit membership fees and pay 
invoices. C registered for internet banking in December 2012. Mr B was the main user of 
these accounts in his role as Cs Treasurer.
Between April 2018 and March 2019 Mr B made several complaints on behalf of C about 
TSBs internet banking facilities. Many of these complaints related to the well-publicised 
problems with TSBs IT upgrade. As such, a number of the problems he complained about in 
2018 (for example login difficulties and incomplete account statements) have now been 
resolved. And in responding to these complaints TSB paid C various amounts of 
compensation.
But one issue that Mr B first raised in 2018 continues to be a problem for C, and thats the 
changes TSB made to the way they authenticate their customers when making online 
payments. Its on this issue Cs complaint focusses.
In 2018 TSB made changes which meant customers would have to authenticate themselves 
for online banking activities using TSBs banking app installed on a mobile device. This 
replaced a previous system of using card readers. TSBs Ways to Bank User Guide to 
Business Banking explains:
Accessing Internet Banking  
1.4 When using Internet Banking for certain transactions, the App will be required to 
complete those transactions. The User will need to download the App and then use it 
to generate a One Time Password (OTP") which will be available in the menu  
The App is required for these transactions, whether or not you wish to use the wider 
functionality of the App 
The User Guide goes on to explain that an OTP is required to complete the setup of new 
payees (para 4.5).
When TSB made this change, they supplied C with a smartphone free of charge so that they 
could download the app.
In May 2018 Mr B complained that he couldnt use the smartphones touch screen so 
couldnt use the app. TSB responded saying:
 this is the only product that TSB has for its customers to carry out internet 
banking  I do understand the fact that you are unable to use touchscreen devices. I 
can recommend you try and use a touchscreen pen which should resolve the 
situation for you.
TSB also awarded C £50 compensation.
In August 2018 Mr B complained again as he still couldnt use the touch screen, even with a 
stylus. He explained that telephone banking wasnt a suitable alternative to online banking 
due to his hearing loss. TSB offered a further £100 compensation.
Mr B restated the complaint in March 2019. He said he was unable to do anything other than 
view statements through internet banking now because the screen of the smartphone was 
impossible for him to use. He said he couldnt hear well enough to use telephone banking 
and didnt use textphone or similar. He also explained that branch transactions wouldnt be 
possible as this would require the presence of both account signatories. He said:
Despite my informing TSB at various times of my not unusual needs nothing has 
been done to make reasonable adjustments to allow me to continue using TSB 
Internet banking  If nothing is done very quickly to ameliorate this situation then we 
may be forced to close  because we cannot guarantee to pay suppliers in good 
time if other funds become exhausted. Already some  operations have been 
suspended because we cannot rely on TSB.
TSB responded to C on 28 March 2019. They suggested Mr B call their digital team if he 
was having trouble using the app.
Mr B and Mr S brought Cs complaint to us in September 2019. They said they want TSB to 
provide an alternative to authentication by app (for example, provide a card reader).
What TSB told us
TSB said they recognise that some customers have accessibility limitations and feel they 
have offered C a number of alternatives for banking. Whilst they appreciated that these had 
not met Mr Bs needs, they noted that C has another signatory on the accounts who could 
authenticate payments on behalf of C. They also noted that the accounts are rarely used. 
So, TSB considered that whatd happened had had minimal impact on C, that the £1,050 
theyd paid in compensation across all of Cs complaints since April 2018 was generous, 
and they didnt think they should do more. TSB said:
 We cannot revert back to a card reader, so if Mr B can't use the alternatives and 
does not want to give up his role or share responsibilities with another member we 
can only suggest they consider moving their banking 
TSB also explained they dont offer the same authentication methods to their business 
customers as they do their personal customers because often there is a requirement for 
more than one signature on business account transactions.
What C told us
In August 2020 Mr B let us know there had been no change and that TSB had still not made 
reasonable adjustments. In November he said C was still managing without ready access 
to TSB accounts by using alternative means to pay bills. Mr B has since clarified that he can 
log in to view statements and pay existing payees, but he cant set up new payees without 
using TSBs app to generate a one-time passcode. And he cant use the app because its 
only available on touch screen devices.Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think TSB had acted fairly by not offering C an alternative to the app 
for online authentication. She concluded that TSB should develop an authentication solution 
for customers who are unable to use the app.
TSB didnt agree. They said C has members who are able to use the app and/or telephone 
banking and theyd expect C to appoint those members to authenticate online payments. 
They added that there is minimal activity on Cs accounts and its not clear why Mr B cant 
use telephone-based services with or without textphone. They said they believe theyve 
offered reasonable alternatives to C.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 September 2021. I began by setting out the 
considerations I thought relevant to my decision. I wrote:
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair 
and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant 
considerations to deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Reg. 100, which came into force on 
14 September 2019, says that a payment service provider (PSP) must apply strong 
customer authentication where a payment service user accesses its payment 
account online, initiates an electronic payment transaction; or carries out any action 
through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses.
Strong customer authentication (SCA) is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in 
that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
Payment service user (PSU) is also defined. It means a person when making use of 
a payment service in the capacity of payer, payee, or both. And a person, under the 
Interpretation Act 1978, includes a body of persons corporate or unincorporated.
The FCA and UK Finance have both issued guidance to PSPs on the implementation 
of SCA. The FCA in its guidance document Payment Service and Electronic Money 
 Our Approach explains that the requirements for SCA apply regardless of whether the PSU is a consumer or business. The FCAs guidance continues:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be 
necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to comply 
with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users 
will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in 
areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to 
strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
In its statement of expectations published in September 2019, the FCA said:
We expect firms to develop SCA solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers. This means that you may need to provide several different 
methods of authentication for your customers. This includes methods that 
dont rely on mobile phones, to cater for consumers who dont have, or wont 
want to use, a mobile phone.
UK Finance has also issued guidance to businesses detailing a non-exhaustive list of 
authentication methods a PSP can employ to satisfy the possession element of 
SCA. These include:
Possession of a device evidenced by an OTP generated by, or received on a 
device (such as OTP by SMS text message)
Possession of a device evidenced by a signature generated by a device 
(hardware or software)
App or browser with possession evidenced by device binding
Card or device evidenced by QR code scanned from an external device
Possession of card evidenced by a card reader
Possession of card evidenced by a dynamic card security code
OTP received by email account associated, bound or linked adequately to the 
cardholder
OTP received by landline number associated, bound or linked adequately to 
the cardholder
Also, in its guidance on authentication methods and vulnerable customers, UK 
Finance has said:
 The move towards digitisation of financial services offers many benefits 
including: increased access to services at all times of the day or night, lower 
costs and improved accuracy and efficiency, enhancing customer outcomes, 
however it is vital to ensure that no one is left behind  Under the Equality 
Act 2010, banks must provide customers with access to all their products and 
services which may require providers to design-in reasonable adjustments 
Card issuers should offer a range of options for customer to authenticate, 
that will address a proportionate range of vulnerabilities 
Specifically, with regard to customers who are unable to authenticate through SMS 
OTP or mobile app, perhaps because of access to mobile devices or unreliable 
mobile network coverage, UK Finance explains:
UK Finance notes that customers unable to use authentication methods such as SMS OTP or Mobile App do not meet the definition of vulnerability in the 
context of this guidance. Card issuers are specifically asked to provide 
suitable alternative authentication options that enable customers to 
authenticate 
Having set out the relevant considerations I went on to explain my provisional findings. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons, I think Cs complaint should be upheld. To resolve it I think TSB 
need to work with C to find a way that Cs treasurer, Mr B, can continue to make 
online payments for C. Ill explain why.
I think the above relevant considerations make it a requirement that TSB implement 
SCA. They should also do so in a way that maintains the accessibility of their 
services for a broad range of customers. PSPs should be designing SCA processes 
with all their customers and potential customers in mind, not designing processes 
which exclude those who dont have access to, or cant use, a particular method of 
authentication. I think the FCA has made it clear that PSPs should provide several 
different methods of authentication for customers, precisely to avoid excluding any 
groups of customers from banking online.
Although the FCA have said We expect firms to develop SCA solutions that work for 
all groups of consumers and consumers usually refers to natural persons acting for 
purposes outside their trade, business or profession, I think this guidance should 
also apply to PSUs like C, a micro-enterprise. The SCA requirements apply to 
microenterprises as they do to consumers, and SCA is not something either type of 
PSU can opt out of. Also, microenterprises can be expected to employ, or have as 
members, individuals with protected characteristics and to include individuals who 
are unable to use some authentication methods.
By offering only one method of authenticating online payments I think TSB puts C in 
the position of having to select their Treasurer with their ability to use that single 
authentication method in mind. And that has the potential to unfairly exclude some of 
Cs members from that role, or at least make it more difficult for them to perform that 
role. Club members like Mr B.
Both the FCAs and UK Finances guidance say that PSPs are expected to offer 
more than a one-size-fits-all approach to SCA. But in this instance TSB have offered 
exactly that; one option for authenticating online payments  an app. Its an option 
that causes C difficulty because their Treasurer, Mr B, has a physical condition which 
means the use of a touch screen is not possible. The answer to this predicament 
shouldnt be that C must appoint a different Treasurer, find a workaround involving 
other Executive members, or move PSP. I think the answer should be that TSB offers 
different methods of authentication which have been designed with a proportionate 
range of customer characteristics and vulnerabilities in mind. Mr B, for example, is 
able to use a simple mobile phone without a touch screen (i.e. a mobile phone that 
doesnt have a complex mobile operating system such as Android or iOS) to receive 
OTPs. Hed also be able to receive OTPs to email or authenticate using a card 
reader. So, I think there are several options TSB could potentially use to ensure Cs 
Treasurer can continue to use online banking.TSB have said that they have offered C a suitable alternative; telephone banking. But 
as thats an alternative way of banking rather than an alternative way of strongly 
authenticating a customer for online banking, Im not persuaded thats good enough. 
Its also not a way of banking that Mr B can easily use with his hearing impairment.
Overall, I dont currently think TSB have acted fairly or reasonably by only offering C 
one way of authenticating for online banking. To put things right I provisionally think 
TSB should offer C a viable alternative for its Treasurer, Mr B, to authenticate for 
online banking and payments.
Responses to my first Provisional Decision
C made no comments on the provisional decision. But TSB didnt agree with my findings. 
They said:
Their removal of the card reader and introduction of the app for authentication 
was done to increase security  as the changes are for the benefit of 
consumers theres an expectation that there will be a reasonable level of 
cooperation from consumers.
There are no plans to re-introduce card readers.
Business account users can receive an OTP to a standard mobile phone or 
landline for strongly authenticating online card payments, but not for setting 
up new payees.
Mr B can do most transactions in online banking without any issues  it is only 
when Mr B wants to set up a new payee that the app is required.
Mr S, already registered on the accounts, could be given a higher access 
level and be involved in this very occasional type of transaction  doing this 
could easily overcome Mr Bs personal limitations.
TSB also asked me to review their Business Banking Ways to Bank User Guide. The User 
Guide explains that there are three levels of internet banking user. TSB have confirmed that 
Mr B is an Account Signatory Full Access User and that Mr S is a Delegate Full Access 
User, both are therefore able to pay new payees via internet banking subject to any Online 
Payment Control settings. Im aware Cs account settings require two users to be involved in 
online payments  so, one user (Mr B) creates and authorises a payment instruction and a 
further user authorises it. TSB suggested Mr S could use the app to create and authenticate 
payments to new payees and Mr B could then authenticate via internet banking.
Further events since my first Provisional Decision
I put TSBs suggestion to Mr B and Mr S to see whether this would resolve Cs complaint. I 
explained that Mr S could create and authorise a payment instruction using the app, and 
Mr B could then authorise it via internet banking.
Mr B, on behalf of C, explained that this work-around would not resolve things for them as, 
the policy, organisation and rules of C dictate clear separation between Treasurer and 
Secretary roles. Mr B said C should not have to change their organisation just because TSB 
wont make it possible for Mr B to create and authorise payments to new payees online.
Having considered Cs response to TSBs suggestion, I told TSB I was still minded to issue a 
final decision along the lines that I set out in my first Provisional Decision. I said I remained 
of the view that SCA is required when a payment service user requests its payment service 
provider to create or amend a list of trusted beneficiaries. I also said I remained of the view 
that when SCA is required payment service providers should, in line with the FCAs 
guidance, think about customers with protected characteristics and provide different methods for SCA to be completed.
I said that TSB had only provided Mr B with one way of strongly authenticating payments to 
new payees  an app  and as Mr B cant use a touch screen, he cant use the app, and this 
leaves him unable to create and authorise payments to new payees  an activity which 
seems fundamental to his role as Treasurer of C. I said I agreed with C that the answer 
shouldnt require adjustments to Cs members roles and duties. The answer should be, I 
think, provided by TSB in the form of a viable alternative method for strongly authenticating.
TSBs offer and Mr Bs response
In response to my further thoughts, TSB explained that they were about to launch their 
mobile app for iPad and that this would be compatible for use with a keyboard. They offered 
to provide C with an iPad and input devices (keyboard and pointing device) for Mr B to use 
so that he can access the app without having to use a touch screen. TSB also provided a 
process map detailing how the app is used to generate an OTP when setting up a new 
payee in internet banking. This showed that an end user would have to make around four 
clicks in the app to generate an authentication code each time they want to set up a new 
payee.
TSB also explained that its not possible to send Mr B an OTP to his mobile phone when he 
wants to set up a new payee because this would affect their security protocols for this type of 
payment journey, and their current processes satisfy our risk assessments.
Mr B initially said there is a prospect of a solution now focus has been shifted to mechanical 
input devices  instead of [touchscreens]. He also said, on reviewing the process map, that 
he felt more confident in being able to manage with keyboard and pointing device for a 
touch screen device for the TSB Internet banking 'app' provided screen size is not too small 
 and the touch screen device permits keyboard navigation  But he remained concerned 
that any input devices should be suitable for him to use (he provided examples of keyboards 
and pointing devices hes found comfortable to use with his personal computer) and he 
indicated there is a need for expert opinion on upper limb musculo-skeletal disorders and 
ergonomics to make proper sense of it all.
He also pointed out that hed still prefer to receive an OTP via SMS text message, said the 
extra kit hed need to access the app seems an inordinate rigmarole to generate a code, 
and commented that TSB's exclusive use of the app does nothing to remove barriers or 
eliminate discrimination.
TSB offered to arrange an assessment of Mr Bs needs by an occupational therapist or 
similar. They said there are numerous hardware options available and an assessment will 
help identify which will work best for him.
Mr B said hed submit to an assessment once the TSB website is optimised better for 
keyboard navigation. He also said he felt TSB had failed in its Equality Act 2010 duties by 
introducing the app as the only means of authenticating new payees. He said TSBs offer of 
an iPad and input devices was no more than a means of sustaining this breach, and that 
hed like an alternative means of authentication rather than TSBs sticking plaster offer.
My second provisional decision
As TSBs offer to resolve the complaint wasnt accepted by Mr B, on behalf of C, I issued a 
second provisional decision on 13 May 2022 setting out my thoughts on the offer and giving 
both parties a final opportunity to comment before I reached my final decision. I wrote:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I currently remain of the view, for all the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, that Cs complaint should be upheld and that TSB should offer C 
a viable alternative for its Treasurer, Mr B, to strongly authenticate the creation of 
and payments to new payees.
But I think TSBs current offer, to provide C with an iPad and suitable input devices 
(keyboard and pointing device) for Mr B to use so that he can access the app without 
having to use a touch screen, is fair. And I provisionally dont think TSB need to do 
more to resolve the complaint.
Before I explain why Ive reached that conclusion, I note that Mr B has asked me to 
consider this case with reference to TSBs obligations under the Equality Act 2010. 
Mr B is correct to say that under the Equality Act 2010 businesses do have a duty to 
make reasonable adjustments to remove barriers which put disabled people at a 
substantial disadvantage compared with people who are not disabled when using 
their services. The duty is owed to disabled persons generally, it is an anticipatory 
duty which means service providers and people exercising public functions must 
anticipate the needs of disabled people and make appropriate reasonable 
adjustments so that disabled persons arent at a substantial disadvantage. But a 
service provider only has to make adjustments that are reasonable for it to make. Mr 
B says that TSBs introduction of the app as the only means for business account 
customers to authenticate the creation of new payees online, is a breach of this duty 
as there will be disabled people, like him, who cant, or who find it difficult to, use the 
app.
Ive thought about TSBs Equality Act 2010 obligations when deciding this complaint, 
but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. If C or Mr B want a decision on whether TSB has breached the 
Equality Act 2010 by making the app the only way a business account customer can 
authenticate a new payee in internet banking, then theyd need to go to Court.
I have found that Mr B attempted to use TSBs Business Mobile app but found the 
touch screen inaccessible. And in those circumstances, given what the FCA and UK 
Finance have said about providing several different methods of authentication so that 
all groups of consumers can strongly authenticate, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of C to expect TSB to offer them a viable alternative.
TSB initially said that they had offered C a viable alternative in telephone banking 
but, as I said before, I see telephone banking as an alternative way of banking, not 
an alternative way of strongly authenticating online banking and payments. In my 
view, if Mr B must call a telephone number and speak with a TSB agent whenever he 
needs to create a new payee, hes no longer strongly authenticating. Indeed, hes 
using a banking channel (telephone banking) for which SCA isnt normally required. 
So, I dont think telephone banking can reasonably be interpreted as an alternative 
way of strongly authenticating. Put simply, I think it avoids the SCA requirements 
altogether and is an alternative way of banking.
Telephone banking is also a way of banking which Mr B finds more difficult because 
of hearing loss. Whilst I acknowledge that TSB are sceptical of what Mr B has said 
about his use of phones, Im satisfied that he does find telephone conversations 
difficult. Hes said this difficulty is increased when hes speaking with someone he 
doesnt already know, someone speaking quickly or with an accent, or when his tinnitus is bad. I accept Mr B is likely to be able to use the telephone to some extent, 
when he has what he describes as appropriate conditions, but I dont think that 
means he should be given only telephone banking as a means for setting up new 
payees. Even if he didnt have difficulties with hearing, telephone banking still isnt 
the same as online banking.
Another point TSB have made is that their approach  offering only a mobile app to 
generate the code needed for strong authentication  only restricts Mr Bs ability to 
create new payees. They say he can do most transactions in online banking without 
any issues and so isnt excluded from being Cs Treasurer. But I dont agree that 
justifies leaving the situation as it is. It seems to me that the ability to create new 
payees is a fundamental part of a Treasurers role, and one Mr B should be able to 
do within the convenience of internet banking. I agree with C that they shouldnt have 
to involve other club members in setting up new payees if thats their Treasurers 
role.
Also, SCA is required when a payment service user requests its PSP to create or 
amend a list of trusted beneficiaries. As SCA is required by regulation to be applied 
to this activity, I think the FCA guidance which says PSPs should provide different 
methods of authentication applies. I dont think its fair of TSB to say they wont 
provide alternatives for strongly authenticating the creation of new payees because 
their current approach only excludes Mr B from one activity in online banking and 
payments. He shouldnt be excluded from setting up new payees because the 
method of authentication TSB have chosen for this activity isnt accessible to him.
TSB have explained that their security protocols mean they cant offer Mr B the 
option of strongly authenticating by receiving an OTP by SMS text message to a 
standard mobile phone. Their systems also no longer support the use of card 
readers. But, accepting my conclusion that TSB should give Mr B a viable way of 
strongly authenticating the creation of and payments to new payees, TSB have made 
an offer here. TSB have offered to provide C with an iPad to access the Business 
Mobile app, one that is compatible with a keyboard and pointing device, so that he 
has an alternative to accessing the app via a touch screen. TSB are also willing to 
arrange a professional assessment of Mr Bs ergonomic needs so that any input 
devices are suitable and useable for him. I think this is a providing a reasonable 
means of avoiding the disadvantage hes caused by not being able to use a touch 
screen and is a fair solution. This will resolve the problem Mr B currently has with 
generating a code via the app when hes setting up a new payee in internet banking.
I appreciate that Mr B would prefer to receive or generate the OTP by another 
method (an SMS text message or a card reader). And I know he believes strongly 
that TSBs insistence that the app be used for this process has the potential to cause 
customers who cant use the app for reasons of disability substantial disadvantage. 
But whilst I think the regulations, and the associated guidance mean that TSB are 
required to offer authentication methods which are workable all groups of 
consumers I dont think theyre prescriptive about the authentication methods a 
payment service provider must offer. Its clear there are a range of ways PSPs can 
authenticate customers and not all PSPs will adopt the same range. Its also not 
possible for me to require TSB to start sending SMS OTPs to Mr B or to reintroduce 
card readers. I simply dont have evidence to support that this would be practical or 
possible for TSB to do. I think its relevant also that the duty to make reasonable 
adjustments does not require a business to make fundamental changes to the nature 
of their service.I also dont think there is anything inherently wrong with TSB making use of the app 
central to their process for business account customers setting up new payees online 
 many smart devices which support mobile apps will have built-in accessibility 
features (such as voice activation, and screen readers) and are likely to be useable 
by customers with a broad range of needs. And it seems logical to me that payments 
to new payees should have a high level of security to reduce the risk of fraud. Thats 
why SCA is required when a payment service user requests its payment service 
provider to create or amend a list of trusted beneficiaries. But when TSB were made 
aware that Mr B could not access the app because he struggles to use a touch 
screen due to a physical disability, I think they ought to have thought about what 
reasonable adjustments they could make. It wasnt in my view fair or reasonable for 
TSB to simply suggest Mr B give up his role or that C consider moving their 
banking.
Although the length of time its taken is disappointing, TSB have now accepted that 
they need to do something different for C by making it possible for Mr B to complete 
SCA.
Thinking about what Mr B has said about the type of keyboard and pointing device he 
currently uses with his personal computer, I think theres very little risk that TSBs 
proposed assessment of his ergonomic needs wont be able to identify suitable input 
devices. When saying this Im mindful that Mr B has previously suggested he can use 
a card reader  usually a calculator sized device used to generate a code when a 
card is inserted and pin entered  and a clicky button mobile phone. Indeed, when 
he first put this complaint to us he said hed like TSB to Provide alternative to the 
TSB 'App' that is not reliant on touch screen devices. Reinstate card readers for 
example.
I also think its important to bear in mind that Mr Bs interaction with the app is likely 
to be infrequent and, when he does need to generate a code using it, he should be 
able to achieve that within very few steps and with a minimal number of clicks. The 
iPad, keyboard and pointing device will not have to be used for writing lengthy 
documents or correspondence; the input devices need to be ergonomically suitable 
to enable Mr B to complete a few clicks. So, I think TSBs offer will remove the 
current problem that Mr B has with using a touch screen and make the app 
accessible to him. Hell still be able to do the vast majority of Cs online banking from 
his personal computer using the keyboard and pointing devices hes used to and 
comfortable with. His only interaction with the app will be to generate an OTP, and he 
wont have to use the wider functionality of the app.
Overall, for all the reasons I set out in my first provisional decision and here, I dont 
think its fair or reasonable of TSB to exclude Cs Treasurer, Mr B, from fully using 
their online banking and electronic payments services, just because he cant use a 
touch screen device to operate their Business Mobile app. I think treating C fairly 
involves making it possible for the Treasurer theyve chosen to strongly authenticate 
so that he can use all TSBs online banking and electronic payment services and 
doesnt have to rely on telephone and branch banking services instead. TSBs offer 
will, I think, make it possible for Mr B to strongly authenticate the creation of and 
payments to new payees and I currently think its a fair and reasonable offer in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained I intend to uphold Cs complaint. TSB have already 
agreed to arrange a needs assessment for Mr B and, following that, provide C with an iPad and input devices that will enable Mr B to use the app without reliance on a 
touch screen. This means hell be able to login to Cs account online, create and pay 
new payees, and fulfil his role as Treasurer in the same way as he did before TSB 
made changes to the way customers authenticate online banking activity. I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that TSB should:
Arrange an assessment of Mr Bs ergonomic needs for accessing the 
Business Mobile app.
Following the results of that assessment provide C with a device which 
supports TSBs Business Mobile app and suitable input devices which Mr B 
can use to access the app and generate an authentication code instead of 
using the touch screen.
Responses to my second Provisional Decision
In response to my second provisional decision TSB said they didnt have anything further to 
add.
Mr B said that he still considered hed been discriminated against by TSB, but essentially 
agreed with my provisional decision. However, he said he didnt understand why action 
would need to be taken separately with respect to TSBs Equality Act 2010 duties.
He also explained that he has no objection in principle to independent assessment of his 
needs, but he has reservations about why one is necessary and how useful it will be as his 
condition and abilities can fluctuate over time.
Mr B suggested that an assessment may not be necessary if TSB can provide an 
appropriate adaptor for his own existing keyboard and pointing device (trackball) to be 
connected to the iPad they propose to provide. He explained that hes aware external 
keyboards can be connected to iPads via a USB port adaptor (or hub for multiple 
connections). He said, if this is possible, TSB wont need to arrange a needs assessment 
and need only ensure that their device and adaptor in fact can be connected to USB 
peripherals and come with some means of ensuring that TSB retain responsibility for them. 
Finally, he said it matters not which touch screen device is provided, so long as he can read 
the screen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to change the overall outcome I previously reached in my 
two provisional decisions on this complaint. I remain of the view that Cs complaint should be 
upheld, that TSB should offer C a viable alternative for its Treasurer, Mr B, to strongly 
authenticate the creation of and payments to new payees. I also remain of the view that 
TSBs offer to provide C with an iPad and input devices (keyboard and pointing device) for 
Mr B to use so that he can access the app without having to use a touch screen is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. However, I shall address the main points of Mr Bs 
response to my second Provisional Decision.
First, I think it would be helpful to explain that whilst the Equality Act 2010 is a significant and 
important piece of relevant legislation, and Ive thought about TSBs duties to make reasonable adjustments under the Act whilst deciding this case, my role, as set out in the 
Dispute Resolution Rules is to determine a complaint by reference to what, in my opinion, is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Its a matter for the Courts, not this 
service, to make a finding about whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached.
Secondly, I note that although Mr B has agreed to undergo an assessment in principle he 
has set out a potential solution which might allow him to use the iPad TSB provide with the 
keyboard and pointing devices hes already used to and comfortable with. If it is technically 
feasible to connect Mr Bs existing keyboard and trackball to the iPad with an adaptor, I 
agree this would render an assessment of his ergonomic needs unnecessary, and so I think 
this option  of connecting his existing keyboard and trackball to an iPad capable of 
supporting TSBs Business Mobile app should be explored before any ergonomic needs 
assessment is arranged.
Finally, Mr B has raised the question of ongoing responsibility for the iPad and adaptor (or 
any other hardware that might be recommended and provided by TSB following an 
ergonomic needs assessment if one proves necessary). My view on this is that TSBs offer 
to provide C with an iPad is to resolve a current complaint that Cs current Treasurer, Mr B, 
cant access the Business Mobile app to generate an authentication code without a device 
which is both capable of supporting the app and accessible via mechanical input devices. 
There are a number of things that could potentially change about the current situation which 
mean I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to impose an open-ended commitment on 
TSB with regard to the provision and maintenance of this hardware. For example, C may 
appoint a new Treasurer who is able to access the app via any touch screen device that the 
club or its members have at their disposal. Its also possible that TSBs options for 
completing SCA might evolve and change in future.
Its also relevant that the iPad and any other hardware, once in the possession of C, will not 
be restricted to use for accessing TSBs Business Mobile app or restricted to use by Mr B  it 
will be possible for C to use this hardware for other purposes if it so chooses. So, I dont 
think its unreasonable that C takes some responsibility for these devices by, for example, 
insuring them appropriately and storing them safely. I dont think it would be fair to say that 
TSB remain responsible for equipment that a third party has in their possession, that they 
have no control over how well its looked after, and that could be used for purposes 
unrelated to banking with TSB.
I think TSBs responsibility here is to provide C with a viable means for its Treasurer, Mr B, 
to strongly authenticate so that he can create and authorise payments to new payees in 
internet banking on behalf of C. I think TSBs offer to provide an iPad and input devices 
gives C that viable means for completing those tasks in the current circumstances. If, in 
future, Cs Treasurer is again unable to complete SCA, perhaps if something goes wrong 
with the hardware, Id expect C to raise that with TSB and, if the matter cant be resolved, it 
may result in a new complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive previously set out Im upholding Cs complaint. TSB have already 
agreed to arrange a needs assessment for Mr B and, following that, provide C with an iPad 
and input devices that will enable Mr B to use the app without reliance on a touch screen. I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. However, Mr B has made a suggestion which, 
if technically feasible, might render an ergonomic needs assessment unnecessary, and I 
agree this should be explored first.
So, my decision is that TSB should:Communicate with Mr B to understand the technical specifications of his existing 
keyboard and pointing device, and his requirements with regard to the screen size of 
an iPad (or similar app supporting device) and, using that information, explore 
whether it is technically feasible to provide C with a device which supports TSBs 
Business Mobile app and an adaptor or hub which allows the connection and use of 
Mr Bs existing input devices.
If it is technically feasible to connect Mr Bs existing keyboard and trackball to the 
iPad (or similar app supporting device) with an adaptor or hub, provide C with a 
device which supports TSBs Business Mobile app and an adaptor or hub which 
allows the connection and use of Mr Bs existing input devices which Mr B can use to 
access the app and generate an authentication code instead of using the touch 
screen.
If, having communicated with Mr B and explored the options, it is not technically 
feasible to connect Mr Bs existing keyboard and trackball to the iPad (or similar app 
supporting device) with an adaptor or hub, arrange an assessment of Mr Bs 
ergonomic needs for accessing the Business Mobile app.
If an ergonomic needs assessment becomes necessary, following the results of that 
assessment provide C with a device which supports TSBs Business Mobile app and 
suitable input devices which Mr B can use to access the app and generate an 
authentication code instead of using the touch screen.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Cs complaint. TSB Bank plc should put things right by 
doing what Ive set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman