DRN-3574536
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wouldnt set up a direct debit to take payments for an 
arrears payment arrangement that hed agreed on a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr U made an arrangement with Metro to pay £100 a month to clear some arrears that had 
accrued on his BBL. Mr U asked for a direct debit to be set up to take the payment 
automatically, but Metro refused and instead required Mr U to make the monthly payments 
manually. Mr U didnt call Metro and make the agreed £100 payments, and because of this 
Metro terminated the BBL agreement and issued a formal demand for the full outstanding 
balance owed on the BBL. Mr U wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Metro looked at Mr Us complaint. They confirmed that because Mr U was clearing arrears 
that had accrued because a scheduled direct debit payment hadnt been paid, the option to 
set up a second direct debit to clear those arrears hadnt been available to Mr U. 
Accordingly, Metro didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr U in how theyd managed 
the situation, and so they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr U wasnt happy with Metros response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Metro Bank had 
acted unfairly towards Mr U by not offering a direct debit option for the arrangement to clear 
the arrears, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr U remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U feels that Metro should have allowed him to set up a direct debit to make the agreed 
arrears payments. Mr U also feels that by not allowing him to set up such a direct debit, 
Metro should bear some responsibility for him not making the agreed arrears repayments.
Metro explained to Mr U when he entered into the arrears repayment arrangement that a 
direct debit couldnt be set up for those repayments, and this was because a direct debit was 
already in place for Mr Us BBL  although it had been placed on a temporary hold at Mr Us 
request. Metro also explained that they wouldnt be able to set up a second direct debit on 
the BBL, and that if they attempted to use the direct debit that was in place to take the 
arrears, it would apply for the full balance of the arrears, and not the £100 payments that had 
been agreed. As such, Metro confirmed that if Mr U wanted to make the £100 payments, he 
would need to make them manually each month, before the agreed monthly date.
Metros explanation here seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied from having listened to 
a recording of telephone calls between Mr U and Metro that Mr U was given clear notice that 
he would need to make the arrears payments manually at the time that he entered into the 
agreement to clear the arrears with Metro.
I also find it very difficult to conclude that because Mr U wasnt allowed to set up a direct 
debit as he would have liked, that Metro should bear some of the responsibility for Mr U not 
making the agreed arrears payments. This is because, ultimately, as the BBL account 
holder, it was Mr Us responsibility to ensure that any agreed instalments were paid. And I 
dont feel that Mr Us responsibility in this regard was diminished in any way by the option to 
set up a direct debit not being made available to him.
All of which means that I dont feel that Metro have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr U as he contends here. This is because Im satisfied that there was a reasonable 
explanation as to why a direct debit couldnt be offered to Mr U in regard to the arrears 
repayments, and that Mr U was advised of this fact when he accepted the arrears 
agreement. Additionally, Im also satisfied that it was Mr Us responsibility to have ensured 
that the agreed arrears repayments were made, and that this responsibility wasnt in any 
way reduced or diminished by the direct debit option not being made available to him. 
Consequently, I dont feel that Metro have acted unfairly in taking the action they did when 
Mr U didnt make those repayments, including the termination of the BBL agreement.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr U was wanting, but it follows from that above that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Metro to take any further action. I trust that 
Mr U will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman