DRN-3751622
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold a timeshare product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited. Mr and Mrs R are 
represented by a claims management business, which Ill call C. Where I refer to Mr and 
Mrs Rs submissions, I include those made on their behalf.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs R were on holiday in the Canary Islands. They were invited to 
attend a presentation, at the end of which they agreed to buy from Anfi Sales SL a timeshare 
week at a resort on Gran Canaria. They paid £12,582, provided by way of a joint loan from 
Shawbrook.
In March 2020 C contacted Shawbrook, saying that the timeshare had been misrepresented 
to Mr and Mrs R, that the seller was in breach of contract and that the loan had created an 
unfair relationship. C subsequently said that Shawbrook had not properly assessed whether 
the loan was affordable and that Anfi Sales had not been properly authorised to arrange it. 
C said that the timeshare had been misrepresented because Mr and Mrs R had been told 
that it was an investment, but it had no real value. C said as well that any commission paid 
by Shawbrook to Anfi Sales should have been disclosed, but it had not been. 
Shawbrook, having contacted Anfi Sales, did not uphold the complaint. It said that the 
documentation made clear what the timeshare terms were, and that Mr and Mrs R had 
signed documents confirming that those terms had been explained to them. Shawbrook said 
that it was satisfied that the loan was affordable. It also said that no commission had been 
paid. 
C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator was not persuaded that there was sufficient evidence of any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  although Anfi Sales was in administration, it 
appeared that services were still being provided.
Mr and Mrs R did not accept the investigators assessment. In response, they explained that, 
having reviewed the timeshare contract, they had decided to terminate it in December 2019 
 before they had used the timeshare property. They said that they had had difficulty in 
doing so. C said too that Anfi Sales had not been authorised to arrange the loan, which 
made it unenforceable. 
Shawbrook noted that these were not matters which had been raised with it and which it had 
not had the opportunity to address. They should not, it said, form part of this complaint. The 
investigator agreed with that and did not express any view on them. 
The case was then passed to me to review. I considered what had happened and issued a 
provisional decision, in which I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a creditor. Those conditions includes :
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The seller named on the timeshare contract was Anfi Sales SL, the same company as was 
named as the credit intermediary on the loan agreement. I am satisfied therefore that the 
loan was provided under existing arrangements between that company and Shawbrook and 
that section 75 could therefore apply. I have therefore considered what has been said about 
the sale. 
As a matter of English law, a misrepresentation is, broadly speaking, a statement of fact or 
law made by one party to a contract, which (i) is untrue and (ii) induces the other into the 
contract. 
The documents here indicate that the sale contract was governed by Spanish law, but I have 
approached this decision on the assumption that Spanish law is not materially different from 
English law, at least insofar as it relates to this complaint. The parties can tell me in their 
response if they believe there are material differences. Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit 
Act applies to overseas contracts.  
As part of the sale agreement, Mr and Mrs R signed a one-page Customer Compliance 
Statement, broken down into 15 separate statements. They confirmed, amongst other 
things, that:
the presentation was conducted in a friendly and helpful manner;
they had been given enough time to consider the documents;
the loan payments were affordable;
they understood that the purchase agreement and the statement were the entire 
agreement and they had not relied on any other oral representations.  
If, as Mr and Mrs R have suggested, they had been told that the timeshare was an 
investment opportunity, I think it unlikely that they would have signed those statements. 
There was nothing in any of the documents suggesting that it was an investment. On the 
contrary, the sale contract said that any resale could not be guaranteed. 
Mr and Mrs R have suggested that there was a breach of contract because Anfi Sales was 
placed into liquidation. Shawbrook says that the timeshare services are still being provided. 
Be that as it may, by the time of the liquidation, Mr and Mrs R had relinquished their 
timeshare in any event. Once that happened  as provided for in the contract  Mr and Mrs 
R were not entitled to receive further services. Their contract was at an end and so there can 
have been no breach. 
I am not persuaded either that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship. It does not 
appear that any commission was paid, so the issue of disclosure does not arise. I do not 
believe either that Anfi Sales was acting as Mr and Mrs Rs agent. It was selling a timeshare 
product, not advising them on a financial product. 
I am not persuaded either that the loan was not affordable. Mr and Mrs R have not referred 
to any difficulties they might have had making payments. So, even if Shawbrook should have carried out more detailed affordability checks, it does not appear that its lending decision 
would have been any different. 
Finally, I agree with the investigator that any complaint which Mr and Mrs R might have 
about Anfi Sales authorisation or about the events surrounding the termination of the 
timeshare contract are new issues. I will not comment on them, save to say that it remains 
open to Mr and Mrs R to raise them as a separate complaint with Shawbrook, should they 
wish to do so. 
I decided  provisionally at least  not to uphold the complaint. 
In reply to my provisional decision C asked that the issue around the authorisation of Anfi 
Sales be included as part of this complaint. The investigator responded by declining that 
request and arranging for a new complaint to be set up. I agree with that approach and make 
no further comment on the authorisation issue. 
Other than that, neither Mr and Mrs R nor Shawbrook had anything to add following my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments, I do not believe there is any 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion from that I reached in my provisional decision. I 
stress however that I have considered all the evidence and arguments afresh before 
reaching that conclusion.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman