DRN-4274230
The complaint
This complaint is about a home insurance policy provided by Ageas Insurance Limited 
(Ageas), held by the late Mr H and updated by the executors of the estate when 
circumstances changed. 
Mr and Mrs K (joint executors) have brought the complaint on behalf of Mr Hs estate. Mr 
and Mrs K felt a claim for damage caused by escape of water was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mrs K informed Ageas that her father had unfortunately passed away. The policy needed to 
be updated to reflect that the property was now unoccupied. Ageas applied some 
endorsements to the policy and informed Mrs K of the changes it had made.
A few months later, when Mrs K visited the property she found a leak had caused extensive 
damage to the property, which was found to be stemming from an issue with the water tank 
in the loft.
When Mrs K made a claim against the policy for the damage caused, Ageas wouldnt cover 
the claim due to the impact of one of the endorsements that was added to the policy. It said 
as the property was unoccupied, damage caused by leaks and any accidental damage was 
excluded from the policy.
Mrs K felt Ageas didnt talk to her thoroughly to ascertain which insurance policy was right 
for the estate in the new circumstances. Mrs K didnt think Ageas were clear about the 
endorsements that would apply, so she would like the claim settled in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Mrs K should reasonably 
have known about the updated terms and conditions from the communications shared by 
Ageas. He thought Ageas had declined the claim fairly in line with the new terms and 
conditions. Mr and Mrs K disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think it would be fair for me to uphold this complaint as 
I dont think Ageas has done anything wrong. Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing to 
Mr and Mrs K, Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Mrs K has indicated she wasnt aware of the impact of the endorsements when the updates 
to her policy was made. Our service thinks its good practice to communicate any significant 
changes to a policy in writing. I can see Ageas did this in a letter that was sent to Mrs Ks 
home address. The letter is clear that if the property is left unoccupied, then the policy 
wouldnt cover all claims  it explicitly set out claims for escape of water and accidental 
damage wouldnt be covered.
I think Ageas has reasonably communicated the changes of the policy to Mrs K. However, 
Mrs K felt Ageas shouldve done more in understanding her requirements and providing 
advice in respect to maintenance of the property.
I cant see any evidence that Ageas provided any advice in providing the policy. Ageas 
simply updated the terms and conditions of the policy based upon the new information that 
Mrs K provided. It also communicated the impact of the change to Mrs K. I wouldnt have 
expected Ageas to do more when an update is made to a policy.
I have listened to the call when Mrs K made the change to the policy and at no point did it 
seem Mrs K was asking for advice or Ageas was providing it. It was simply updating the 
policy in accordance with how the policy said changes would be administered. There is no 
evidence to suggest Ageas misled Mrs K.
I dont think the endorsement applied was unreasonable. With the house been unoccupied, 
the risk wouldve increased for Ageas and as a commercial entity it has the right to choose 
what risks it accepts to insure in exchange for a premium paid. 
If Mrs K didnt understand the endorsements that were communicated to her, then she 
couldve queried this with Ageas. If she didnt think the cover provided her with the protection 
she needed, then I think she couldve pursued alternative cover with Ageas or another 
insurer. However, I dont think Ageas was ever made aware Mrs K may want more extensive 
cover. If it did, I have no reason to believe it wouldnt have tried to help her.
So, as I dont think Ageas has done anything wrong and I think it has declined the claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman