DRN-2164142
The complaint
Mr L complains that Curve 1 Limited didnt treat him fairly when it failed to take a verification 
payment from a card he was trying to set up for use with the Curve electronic wallet app. 
What happened
Mr L tried to register one of his bank cards for use with the Curve electronic wallet app. This 
didnt work so he complained to Curve. 
Curve said the card registration didnt go through because the card issuing bank declined 
the payment, showing a do not honour marker on the account.
Mr L asked his card issuing bank to confirm there were no blocks on his account, which it 
did. Unhappy with Curves response, Mr L then brought his complaint to this service. He said 
Curves response didnt make sense, as there are two pending payments showing on his 
bank account statement, so he thinks his card verification shouldve gone through. He also 
said payments from another account of his were successful, so he doesnt understand why 
the payments from this card were not.
Our investigator considered the complaint and asked Curve why two pending payments 
were showing on Mr Ls statement. Curve explained that this was because it had attempted 
to take recurring payments in order to try to set up the card with the app, but these hadnt 
gone through as the card issuing bank had blocked them.
Our investigator thought Curve hadnt done anything wrong. And although Mr L is unhappy 
that recurring payments were requested, which arent allowed from his bank account, our 
investigator said we cant change the internal processes that businesses use. Mr L remained 
unhappy and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered carefully what Mr L has said, I can understand why hes frustrated. His 
attempts to set up a card for use with the app have been unsuccessful, compared to 
previous attempts to set up a similar sort of card, which he says were successful. However, I 
wont be asking Curve to do anything further  Ill explain why.
Weve asked for details of the other card/account which Mr L says he successfully set up, 
but Mr L has said these have since been closed and he doesnt have any details. So its not 
possible for me to conclude that theres been any unfair inconsistency here.
Ive considered the reasons Curve has given for why there are two pending payments 
showing on Mr Ls bank statement. And Im satisfied that the reasons make sense. These 
pending payments havent actually been taken from Mr Ls account and so the card was not 
ultimately set up for use with the app. Curve has said that if Mr Ls bank doesnt allow 
recurring payments, (which its confirmed it doesnt) then Mr L wouldnt be able to use that 
card with the app anyway.
Although Curve hasnt been able to explain why the first verification attempt on Mr Ls 
current card didnt go through (as there can be several reasons for this), I dont think its 
acted unreasonably by attempting to take recurring payments as a secondary measure, 
which it says it does when the first attempt at registering a card fails. As our investigator 
said, its not our role to tell businesses to change their internal processes and procedures 
and I cant say Curve has been unfair in requesting a recurring payment as opposed to 
checking the cards validity in some other way.
I also have to consider the impact this has had on Mr L. And Im afraid I havent seen 
enough for me to think this has caused him more than some minor inconvenience. So I wont 
be asking Curve to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman