DRN-3210127
The complaint
Mr Y complains on behalf of Mrs Y that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to renew her motor 
insurance policy automatically which resulted in her not being insured.
References to Mr Y and Mrs Y will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Mrs Y held a motor insurance policy with UKI for a number of years. Mr Y, her husband, was 
named as a driver. 
In May 2021 the policy was due for renewal. UKI sent letters to Mrs Y with the renewal 
details. She did not contact UKI to organise the renewal, so her policy lapsed on 21 May 
2021.
In June 2021 Mrs Y was stopped by the police whilst driving her car and it was found that the 
car was not insured. Mrs Y was charged with driving without motor insurance. She was 
issued with both points on her licence and a fine. 
Mr and Mrs Y complained to UKI. They said that the renewal letter she received from UKI in 
May 2021 contained confusing statements and they assumed her motor insurance had been 
renewed automatically. 
Mr and Mrs Y want UKI it to accept that it was its fault that Mrs Ys motor insurance policy 
was not renewed. They say if UKI admit this fault, the police will remove the points on Mrs 
Ys driving licence and refund the fine. They also want UKI to pay the charges they paid for 
recovery of her vehicle. 
UKI did not accept fault.
As Mr and Mrs Y were not happy with UKI, Mr Y brought the complaint on behalf of Mrs Y to 
our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and did not think that 
UKI had done anything wrong in its actions prior to the policy renewal date and it had fairly 
allowed the policy to lapse, as it had not had any contact from Mrs Y.
As Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mrs Y was stopped by the police and it was discovered that her car wasnt insured, Mr 
Y contacted UKI to complain on her behalf.
Mr Y said she had a letter from UKI stating if you do not wish to renew your policy contact 
us. He said she had not contacted it, as she did wish to renew the policy.
UKI explained the policy was not set up to automatically renew as no request for this had 
been made by Mrs Y and it had not been automatically renewed in previous years. It said 
that as it had not heard anything from Mrs Y to renew the policy, it had lapsed.
Mr Y said the renewal reminder letter had misled her.
I looked into the letters sent to Mrs Y. There were three letters and all of these letters were 
addressed identically. The letters are as follows
1. 22 April 2021 - A renewal reminder letter was sent on, to remind her that the renewal 
date of her insurance was 21 May 2021. This letter contained all the new policy details 
and included details of how to renew it.
2. 14 May 2021 - A reminder letter was sent.
3. 19 May 2021 - A final reminder was sent. 
As Mrs Y didnt contact UKI her policy lapsed on 21 May 2021.
Mr Y said Mrs Y only received the letter dated 14 May 2021.
I reviewed the letter of 14 May 2021. The content was all on one page and in the letter there 
are two different options clearly given, stating what Mrs Y needed to do.
Your motor insurance policy is due to expire soon and we recently wrote to you with details 
of your renewal. We do not appear to have received your instructions to renew the policy 
and are concerned that you may not be covered if you do not contact us.  
Please therefore take just a few minutes to arrange your cover for the coming year by calling 
us on [the insurers phone number]. If there is anything you are unsure about, our Renewal 
Team will be happy to help you.  
If you do not wish to renew your policy please tell us by calling [the insurers phone number].
However, if you have contacted us in the meantime, please ignore this reminder.
Mr Y said Mrs Y did not call UKI as she wanted to renew the policy. Mr Y said by putting if 
you do not want to renew your policy please tell us by calling [the insurers phone number] 
towards the end of the letter, that it had conveyed to him that this was what was required.
I do not think Mrs Y deliberately let her motor insurance policy expire. However there wasnt 
any information in this letter that said her policy would automatically renew if she did nothing. 
The letter only contained two options, both required her to call UKI.Mr Y said Mrs Y had not received the renewal letter, that UKI sent on 22 April 2021. This 
letter contained the details of her new insurance schedule, and the cost. 
I think that on receipt of the reminder letter, detailed above, it is reasonable to expect that 
she should have contacted UKI to check the details of the policy due to be renewed. 
Otherwise how could she know what she was accepting. 
As Mrs Y did not receive the other two reminder letters sent by UKI, I have considered if the 
letter received by her on 14 May 2021 was clear enough in its own right.
After consideration, I think the letter of 14 May 2021 was simple and clear. I think even 
without the other two letters being received that it is clear in the letter of 14 May 2021 that 
UKI required Mrs Y to contact it. To let it know if she wanted to renew her motor insurance 
or to let it know that she did not want to renew. 
I do not agree UKI should be held responsible for Mrs Ys insurance lapsing, as I think the 
information and instruction in its reminder letter of 14 May 2021 was clear. 
Therefore, I dont uphold Mrs Ys complaint and do not require UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman