DRN-3727247
The complaint
Mr C complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company. For ease, Ill refer to all submissions 
as if they were made by him directly.
What happened
UK Credit approved Mr C for a £4,000 loan in February 2019. The term of the loan was 36 
months, with repayments of effectively £200 per month. Mr C says this loan was 
irresponsibly lent. He says UK Credit did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks, 
and had it done so, it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to him. The loan was 
listed for debt consolidation. The loan was settled in February 2022. 
UK Credit did not agree to uphold Mr Cs complaint. It says it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks. It says that although these checks demonstrated that Mr C had some 
issues managing credit in the past; they also demonstrated the loan was affordable to Mr C. 
It therefore says it made a fair decision to lend.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs 
complaint. 
UK Credit and Mr C are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail 
here. 
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mr C. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK 
Credit lent effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Mr Cs ability to afford the loan and repay it 
sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration 
and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
As set out above the loan was for £4,000 over 36 months with repayments of 
effectively £200 per month. UK Credit says it completed proportionate checks before 
lending. This included searching Mr Cs credit file, completing a telephone 
affordability assessment, and using national statistics to complete Mr Cs outgoings. 
During the telephone assessment Mr C was questioned on aspects of his finances, 
such as defaults and Count Court Judgment (CCJ) markers. 
Mr C declared that he was starting a new job; and provided a letter from his employer 
to explain that his income would be around £45,000 per year. Mr C also provided a 
copy of his tax returns for the year 2017-2018 which demonstrated his take home 
salary was approximately £40,000 that year. 
The credit file search demonstrated that Mr C had a number of existing credit 
commitments; and had a number of defaulted accounts. The credit file showed Mr C 
had a number of current accounts, existing credit cards and an existing unsecured 
loan. The defaulted accounts included credit cards, payday loans and unsecured 
loans. There was also a CCJ for £500 (although Mr C confirmed this was in relation 
to a parking fine rather than any financial product). The total value of the open credit 
was just over £1,000; and the total defaulted amount was around £1,600 (not 
including the CCJ). The defaulted accounts occurred mainly between 2013 and 2015.
Whilst the overall value of Mr Cs existing debt was low, the credit file still 
demonstrated that Mr C was not managing these products well. The unsecured loan 
was currently showing as being in sustained arrears, showing as owing over £800 
against the value of the loan. 
UK Credits affordability assessment took Mr Cs declared income as £45,000 per 
year and used a calculation tool to work out his expected income to be approximately 
£2,800 per month. UK Credit says after deducting Mr Cs known credit commitments 
and using national statistics he  wouldve been left with around £676 surplus per 
month. 
UK Credit says these checks combined were proportionate, and as such it did not 
need to carry out further checks. 
Ive considered UK Credits argument, but I disagree with it in this instance. Whilst it 
is clear UK Credit have questioned Mr C regarding his finances, and for the most part 
he has provided answers, Im satisfied that there were sufficient markers on his file to 
demonstrate that further checks were required for them to be proportionate.
The fact Mr C was changing jobs, would have meant that understanding his future 
income was not going to be straightforward, however Im  satisfied that relying on 
national statistics for his non-credit commitments was sufficient. Mr Cs credit file was 
showing signs of distress, with his unsecured loan being in sustained arrears, and as 
such Im satisfied UK Credit shouldve done more to verify his outgoings. And whilst 
the loan was for debt consolidation; I think the sustained arrears suggests Mr Cs 
finances werent in a sufficient position that relying on a £600 surplus per month was 
reasonable. As such Im satisfied UK Credit shouldve completed further checks for 
them to be considered proportionate in this instance. 
As proportionate checks were not completed in this instance; Ive gone on to 
consider what further checks wouldve likely shown. Our service has asked Mr C to 
provide further information; but he has not been able to do so as of the time of 
writing. So, with that in mind Ive made my decision on the information which is 
currently available.Having done so, whilst Im satisfied there were indications which suggested further 
checks shouldve been completed; Ive not seen persuasive enough information to 
say, on balance, that the loan wouldve been unaffordable to Mr C.
UK Credits affordability assessment suggested that Mr C could afford the necessary 
repayments with a disposable income of approximately £600 per month. This 
included the increase in his credit commitments brought on by this loan.
Whilst Mr C says he was experiencing financial hardship at the time, and there were 
signs of distress on his file, Im not persuaded on balance that this loan would not 
have cleared the arrears and enabled Mr C to manage his finances better. As noted 
above his existing credit commitments showing on the credit file were low. 
So, in the absence of persuasive information to the contrary, Im satisfied on balance 
the information suggested Mr C could afford the repayments of this loan. So, it 
follows that Im satisfied, based on what Ive currently seen, that UK Credit made a 
fair decision to lend.
Ive not seen any other evidence that suggests UK Credit acted unfairly in any other 
way. So, it follows that my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wished to 
make. Neither party responded with any new information to consider before the relevant 
deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the findings I set out in my provisional decision should remain. 
That is to say that I do not uphold this complaint.
This is for the reasons set out above, but in particular that Im satisfied that although 
proportionate checks were not completed, that based on the available relevant information it 
suggested that Mr C could have afforded this loan. It follows that Im satisfied UK Credit 
made a fair decision to lend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman