DRN-1797651
Complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited (trading as MyJar) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about three payday loans that MyJar provided to Mr C in 2011. 
When it provided its file of papers on Mr Cs case, MyJar accepted that it unfairly provided 
loan 3. And it agreed to refund the interest and charges Mr C paid on this loan, paid 8% 
simple interest, in order to put things right. But it didnt think that it had done anything wrong 
when providing loans 1 and 2. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and thought MyJar hadnt done anything wrong 
when providing loans 1 and 2 to Mr C. Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So 
the complaint was passed to me. As all parties agree that Mr C shouldnt have been 
provided with loan 3 this decision is only looking at whether MyJar acted fairly and 
reasonably when providing loans 1 and 2 to Mr C.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So MyJar needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is that MyJar 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr C before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, I don't think Mr Cs 
complaint about loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
MyJar says it would have agreed to Mr Cs applications for these loans after hed provided 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr C would have 
provided would more likely than not have shown that hed be able to comfortably make the 
payments he was committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and MyJar have said. Ive also read all of the 
correspondence Mr C has provided and what hes told us about his wider financial 
circumstances. I think that its important for me to start by explaining that loans 1 and 2 
appear to have been Mr Cs first loans with MyJar. 
So I cant see that there was likely to have been any established pattern in Mr Cs borrowing 
needs at this stage. Bearing in mind the amount of the loans provided, the monthly 
payments and the circumstances at the time the respective loans were provided, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for MyJar to rely on any information Mr C is likely to have provided. I 
accept that Mr Cs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information hes likely to have provided, or the other information MyJar obtained. 
For example, Ive seen the bank statements Mr C has provided showing his other short-term 
lending and Im sorry to hear that Mr C was struggling financially. But MyJar could only make 
its decision based on the information it had available at the time. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr C had declared the existence of these loans. And at the time of Mr Cs 
lending relationship, when these loans were provided, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into MyJar specifically searching for short-term lending or asking Mr C to 
evidence his expenditure.  
Equally it's only fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did 
something wrong. I dont think that MyJar did anything wrong in deciding to provide loans 1 
and 2 to Mr C - it appears as though it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks 
like the information it mightve been provided with may not have included all of Mr Cs 
commitments to short-term lenders. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think that what MYJAR Limited has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. So 
Im not asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman