DRN-2980397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont accept that a 
trust document it produced confirms Mrs H can make a critical illness claim under her policy.
The complaint has been brought to us by Mrs H, so for ease, Ill refer to her throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mrs H took out life cover in 2010. She opted to place the policy into trust, with Mr H as a joint 
trustee, to ensure that in the event of her death the proceeds would be paid to her three 
daughters as named beneficiaries.   
Mrs H has unfortunately been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. On reviewing the paperwork 
about her policy, she believed the policy included critical illness cover. But has been unable 
to claim for her multiple sclerosis diagnosis. 
Mrs H complained to NatWest. She said the flexible trust form she completed when placing 
the policy in trust says she does have critical illness cover.
NatWest said Mrs H had made her complaint too late. This service then became involved 
and NatWest said it had misunderstood Mrs Hs complaint point and shouldve considered it. 
It apologised and offered Mrs H £100.
NatWest didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said the flexible trust form is a generic document 
that is issued regardless of what level of cover a policy has and shouldnt be read in isolation 
or over-ride a policys benefits. NatWest didnt believe the wording on the flexible trust form 
was misleading or inaccurate in relation to critical illness cover. And said Mrs H shouldve 
sought legal advice when setting up the trust if shed had any concerns.  
Mrs H didnt accept NatWests response. She told us shed thought she only had life cover, 
but on seeing reference to critical illness cover on the flexible trust form, she believed she 
should be able to make a claim. Mrs H said the wording on the flexible trust form was clear, 
and from a legal perspective, she should be entitled to make a claim. Mrs H also said the 
insurance provider had confirmed this to be correct. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and partly upheld it. She said Mrs H had life cover 
only and all the documents she received about the policy confirmed that to be the case. And 
reference to critical illness benefit on the flexible trust form didnt apply to Mrs H because 
she didnt have critical illness cover as part of her policy. So, our investigator didnt think 
NatWest had done anything wrong. And she thought the apology and £100 offered by 
NatWest for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H as part of the complaints 
process was reasonable.  
Mrs H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She maintained 
the flexible trust form wasnt generic and she should be able to make a critical illness claim 
based on what she agreed to in 2010 when she signed this form. She said the terms of the 
trust agreement cannot be changed or revoked  and that it is a legal document. Mrs H 
didnt accept NatWests offer of £100 unless her claim was taken seriously.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint in part. I know Mrs H feels very strongly 
that the flexible trust form confirms she can make a critical illness claim. But as Ill go on to 
explain, I havent upheld that part of her complaint. I want to assure Mrs H that I havent 
taken this decision lightly  and I dont in any way underestimate the severity of her medical 
condition and the impact this is having on her and her family.
Ive read and considered the whole file.  But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the fair and reasonable outcome.
I think it might help if I first explain the difference between taking out a policy and having that 
policy put in trust. Its not disputed that Mrs H took out life cover in 2010. And the paperwork 
Ive seen shows her policy doesnt include critical illness cover. I can also see from a letter to 
NatWest from the insurance provider dated 13 April 2021 that its confirmed Mrs Hs policy 
doesnt include critical illness cover. And so unfortunately, Mrs H cant claim for her multiple 
sclerosis diagnosis under her policy. 
As our investigator has explained, placing a policy in trust is a separate process to taking out 
the policy. And the flexible trust form isnt specific to Mrs Hs policy. Rather it shows who 
benefits should a successful claim be made under the terms of Mrs Hs policy. Mrs Hs 
complaint points suggest to me that shes of the opinion the flexible trust form in some way 
overrides the terms of her policy. Whereas NatWest argues the form is generic and shouldnt 
be taken in isolation.  Ive carefully considered both arguments. 
Mrs H has made specific reference to the following parts of the flexible trust form:
The Objectives
This Trust, when combined with an appropriate Plan issued by National Westminster 
Life Assurance Ltd, will ensure that; 
-
-should you become critically or terminally ill the plan benefits will be paid to you, 
.
Mrs H has also referenced part of the form that says:
Important Notes
By using this trust (apart from any payment on critical or terminal illness) you will not 
be able to personally benefit from the Plan. 
You must seek legal/professional advice before using this trust so you .
-Understand the legal consequences of its use, for example, a trust cannot be 
revoked once it has been created. I accept there is reference to critical illness cover on the flexible trust form. And that the 
trust cannot be revoked. But the form also makes it clear that the trust is linked specifically 
to Mrs Hs cover - when combined with an appropriate Plan. I can also see from the form 
that:
Plan means the life assurance contract(s) owned or proposed for  as described below. 
The form has then been completed with the date the policy was taken out by Mrs H, the 
policy number and the type of cover level term assurance. Mrs H then signs and dates the 
form. 
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied the flexible trust form completed by Mrs H 
doesnt confirm she has critical illness benefit as part of her life cover. Rather it is a generic 
form that she completed to stipulate who would benefit from a successful claim under her 
level term assurance policy. And should be taken in conjunction with, not in replacement of, 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy. 
Looking now at how NatWest responded to Mrs Hs complaint. I agree that it couldve done 
things better and addressed Mrs Hs concerns sooner. But NatWest has since accepted this, 
apologised and offered Mrs H £100 for the trouble and upset caused. I consider this to be a 
fair and reasonable outcome and in line with what Id expect to see offered for the distress 
and inconvenience Mrs H experienced here.   
Mrs H has also referenced the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) in terms of making insurance fair 
for those medically termed as disabled. Ive taken the Act into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. Its not the role of our service to make findings about whether the 
Act has been breached. If Mrs H wants a decision about whether NatWest has breached the 
Act, then shed need to go Court.
I accept that multiple sclerosis is deemed to be a disability under the Act. And Mrs H feels 
shes been treated differently or less fairly than other customers due to her medical 
condition. But Ive seen nothing to suggest NatWest wouldve accepted that the flexible trust 
form, as drafted, entitled Mrs H to make a claim for critical illness cover if she hadnt been 
diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. So, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. I hope it helps Mrs H to know someone impartial and independent has 
looked into her concerns.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied the £100 offer by NatWest is fair and reasonable and takes into account the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is partially upheld. National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mrs H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman