DRN-2563529
The complaint
Mr L and Ms L complain that TSB Bank plc registered a default on their credit files.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision in January 2021, setting out the background to the case and 
what I was minded to conclude. Please note Ive spotted and corrected two typos, which for 
ease Ive put in bold:
Mr L and Ms L held a current account with TSB. The account had an overdraft 
facility with an authorised limit of £3,000. 
In early 2018, Mr L called TSB to enquire about how to remove Ms L from the 
account as they had separated. The call notes suggest he was told theyd each need 
to go to branch. Mr L has told us that he and Ms L agreed that she wouldnt use the 
account anymore.
On 26 March 2018, Ms L transferred £4,000 out of the account  leaving it almost 
£3,000 overdrawn. Mr L called TSB, which then put a block on the account due to the 
dispute between the account holders. Mr L complained that TSB should have done 
this when hed first told it about the separation. Weve already decided/explained on 
a separate case that we cant consider that complaint  as it was referred to us 
outside the time limits that apply to using our service.
Following the £4,000 withdrawal, Mr L transferred some money between accounts, 
and some debit card payments were taken. These took the overdrawn balance to 
exactly £3,000. Then on 3 April 2018, £6.43 for overdraft fees and interest was 
applied  meaning that Mr L and Ms L exceeded their authorised overdraft.
Mr L says hed been told that no charges would be applied, and no more payments 
could be taken from the account, following the freeze. And that he (and/or Ms L) had 
tried to make a payment into the account  but it had been blocked. Ms L has since 
clarified that she didnt attempt to make any payments.
No payments were received into the account after March 2018. In July 2018, TSB 
sent both Ms L and Mr L a formal demand for the money owed. This referenced 
previous contact about the outstanding overdraft. Both Ms L and Mr L called TSB 
about this  and it seems a 30-day hold was agreed.
I can see that, by September 2018, Mr L advised TSB that he was trying to get the 
funds needed to pay off the account. Then in October 2018, he told TSB he would 
ignore any letters it sent about the account. Following further formal demands and 
default notices, TSB moved the account to its recoveries department and recorded a 
default on both its customers credit files.
Mr L complained to TSB, but it maintained that the default had been applied correctly 
and fairly. He and Ms L then referred the matter to our service. Our investigator found 
the only payments debited from the account since the freeze were debit card 
payments that had already been authorised. And the interest and fee applied related 
to an earlier period. She didnt find any evidence that payments had been made or 
attempted since March 2018. So she didnt tell TSB to remove the defaults.
As requested, another investigator then reviewed the case  but reached the same 
outcome. He explained that overdrafts were payable on demand. He thought Mr L 
and Ms L had been given a fair opportunity to repay the overdraft before the default 
was applied. And he explained that, regardless of the dispute, they were still obliged 
to repay TSB the money it had lent them. At Mr Ls request, the investigator asked 
TSB if it would remove the default and set up a payment plan  but it didnt agree.
As no agreement was reached, Im deciding how to resolve this case. Mr L has 
provided further evidence and points for me to consider. In summary, he submits 
that:
-overdraft charges were incorrectly applied on 3 April 2018  as the overdraft 
wasnt used in February 2018
-no fees or interest should have been applied following the dispute
-the debit card payments taken after the freeze should have been declined. And 
he disputes these.
-TSB should have given more explanation about how the freeze would work
-he and Ms L legally separated in December 2017, so any debt incurred after then 
isnt his liability
-he tried to transfer £1,000 into the account on 9 April 2018  but found out a few 
days later that it had bounced back. Hes provided evidence of a £1,000 faster 
payment being attempted and returned from his business account to support this.
-the account was in dispute, so that  as well as the failed payment and 
separation  is why he didnt pay. He says he would have made further payments 
if the £1,000 payment had been accepted.
-hes unhappy that TSB hasnt been able to provide the call recording from when 
the freeze was added. He says no pending fees were mentioned during this call.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Before explaining my findings, Ill set out the scope of what I can (and cant) consider. 
As our investigators explained, Im only looking into the complaint about this account 
that was raised with TSB and then referred to us in time. Namely, the complaint 
about the default and April 2018 charges applied to the account. As another 
ombudsman has already explained, our service cant consider the previous complaint 
Mr L raised about whether a freeze should have been applied earlier.
I also cant consider any new, separate complaints that TSB hasnt been given the 
opportunity to look into. Mr L says he disputes all the payments taken after the 
freeze. If he means that he didnt authorise the debit card payments  I cant consider 
that, as I cant see that hes raised a dispute with TSB about them. But I can, and will, 
consider whether they should have been stopped as a result of the freeze.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not currently 
intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Regardless of any civil dispute between the account holders, or their separation, its 
clear from the terms and conditions that joint account holders are jointly and severally 
liable for the account:You and each person named on the account are responsible for any money 
you owe us, such as if you have an overdraft. This means we can ask any of 
the following people to repay any of the money youve borrowed on your joint 
account:
You
Any joint customer that you have a joint account with
Both you and any joint account holder
As the terms go on to explain, a joint account holder can, without telling the other(s), 
remove any or all money from the account. And all account holders must give their 
permission to remove a joint account holder.
Although Mr L says he cant be held liable for any debt since December 2017  it 
seems he continued to use the account after that date. And from what hes told us, it 
seems he was intending to keep the account himself  as hes told us that he and 
Ms L had agreed that shed no longer use it. Ultimately, both Mr L and Ms L jointly 
entered a contract with TSB. Im satisfied that means they can both be pursued for 
the debt  and that TSB can, if warranted, register a default on their credit files.
Ive considered the £6.43 debited from the account in early April 2018 for overdraft 
usage. Mr L says the overdraft wasnt used at all in February 2018. But the charging 
period TSB told us this relates to runs from 2 February to 1 March 2018. And the 
account was around £900 overdrawn on 1 March 2018. So Im satisfied the fee and 
interest were applied correctly.
Although Mr L is unhappy that TSB cant provide a call recording for 26 March 2018, I 
accept its explanation that this is due to a subsequent change in its IT system. In any 
event, where evidence is incomplete, I must decide whats more likely to have 
happened. Ive considered Mr Ls recollections from the call as well as the notes TSB 
took at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the pending fees were discussed. 
But I dont consider this in and of itself a failing. It may not have been the main point 
or focus on the call  and I cant see anything to suggest, for example, that Mr L 
asked about this and was given a misleading response. Regardless of whether they 
were drawn to his attention during the call, I still think it was fair for TSB to charge 
them for the earlier use of the overdraft, prior to the freeze being applied, in line with 
the terms of the account.
Similarly, although I dont know whether the pending debit cards were asked about or 
discussed, it seems these related to debit card payments that had already been 
authorised  so Mr L and/or Ms L should already have been aware of these. Its not 
uncommon when paying by card that the payment doesnt leave the account 
immediately. But by using the card, the account holder is instructing the bank to 
make the payments  which were likely for goods and services already received. And 
it has a duty to act on their authorised instructions. So again, I dont think the freeze 
should  or could  have stopped these preauthorised payments.
Following this activity, the amount owed on the account exceeded the authorised 
overdraft. Mr L says he tried to transfer £1,000 into the account on 9 April 2018. Hes 
provided a statement for a business account I understand he and Ms L held (also 
with TSB) to support this. Ive sent a copy to TSB. Although not definitive, this does 
show a £1,000 faster payment leaving the account on 9 April 2018  and a faster 
payment for that same amount then being returned.This evidence doesnt immediately make it clear that the payment was intended for 
the frozen account. The initial description refers to a loan payment  and the returned 
payment description doesnt (for example) seem to include the details of the frozen 
account. Additionally, its not clear why the payment was unsuccessful  so I dont 
know whether this was an error by TSB. But even if I were to accept that Mr L did try 
to transfer £1,000 into the frozen account, and TSB erroneously blocked this  I dont 
consider that sufficient to direct it to remove the default. Ill explain why.
The returned payment was on 9 April 2018  and Mr L says he found out about this a 
few days later. So he and Ms L ought reasonably to have known that they owed 
money on their frozen account in excess of their authorised overdraft. Although TSB 
had stopped them withdrawing more money due to the dispute between them, I 
wouldnt reasonably expect it to forego the money it was owed  or wait for the 
account holders to agree before pursuing this. The notes from when Mr L called on 
26 March 2018 suggest TSB did explain at that point that both he and Ms L were 
liable for the money.
I can see that TSB contacted Mr L and Ms L about the outstanding money owed in 
July 2018. These letters said there had already been prior contact explaining that, if 
they didnt bring the account up to date, TSB could demand payment of the full 
outstanding balance rather than just the unplanned amount. As no payment had 
been received, TSB was now demanding payment of the full amount. Its worth 
noting that overdrafts are a form of credit that are repayable on demand  although 
wed normally expect banks to give sufficient notice first (as TSB appears to have 
done here). The letters also reiterated that both account holders were jointly and 
separately liable for the payment of what was owed. 
TSBs contact notes show that both Mr L and Ms L called in about the letters. TSB 
agreed a 30-day hold on the account before taking further action. But again, no 
payment was received following this hold  nor was a payment plan agreed.
Following this, TSB wrote to Mr L and Ms L again in late October 2018  explaining it 
would report a default to the credit reference agencies unless the money was repaid. 
Around that time, I can see that Mr L also spoke to TSB on the phone and said he 
would ignore its letters. As no payment was received, TSB registered the defaults in 
December 2018. 
Ultimately, there was a gap of over eight months between Mr Ls payment attempt 
and the defaults being registered. In that time, I can see that TSB showed 
forbearance for the account holders circumstances, such as by agreeing holds to 
allow them breathing space to resolve the dispute. It also made the consequences 
clear before taking further action. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that, prior to the 
defaults being reported, further payments were attempted but erroneously rejected. 
To the contrary, both Mr L and Ms L told TSB at points that they wouldnt pay. And 
TSB has told us that payments could have been made  which would have been in 
its interest, given that it was owed money. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr L and Ms L, but Im not intending to 
direct TSB to remove the defaults. Ultimately, its clear that the agreement was 
breached. And I think TSB gave the account holders a fair opportunity to resolve this 
breach before reporting the defaults.
I invited both sides to respond before I made my final decision. TSB has responded to 
explain that, due to its IT system change, it no longer has details about the unsuccessful payment. Ms L hasnt provided any further comments. Mr L has submitted some further 
points, which Ive summarised below:
He wants TSB to consent to us considering is complaint about whether the account 
should have been frozen earlier
The pending charges should have been mentioned during the call and he was never 
notified of them. So the default should be removed as the account would not have 
gone into an unauthorised overdraft if they hadnt been applied.
The pending payments should also have been discussed in the call 
The attempted payment should never have been blocked, so its not fair to base my 
decision on what did or didnt happen after this
Hes been in regular contact with TSB, which was fully aware of the circumstances, 
yet it didnt help. The liabilities for joint accounts should be defined further and there 
should be processes to assist with ongoing disputes between the account holders.
The defaults should be in dispute pending the outcome of the complaint. Overall, had 
TSB kept him better informed, he thinks the situation could have been avoided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Ive already explained to Mr L that I cant ask TSB to consent to the complaint that was 
addressed under a separate case and found to be outside our jurisdiction. As an impartial 
service, we cant advocate on consumers behalves about whether businesses should 
consent to us considering complaints. And TSB has already confirmed that it wont. 
My provisional decision already explained why I dont consider it significant whether the 
charges or pending transactions were discussed when Mr L called about the transfer. The 
account holders should have been aware, and were responsible for, any transactions theyd 
requested which hadnt been processed. TSB may not have received the requests from the 
merchants yet. And the charge for overdraft use was in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. Weve also seen (and shared with Mr L) the format of TSBs statements, which 
have a section for forthcoming fees. If Mr L and Ms L didnt know what the fees were for, I 
think they had sufficient time to check and (if they wished) challenge these before the default 
was applied. Ultimately, for the reasons Ive given, I dont agree that the fees were applied 
unfairly and so I dont agree that the default should be removed as a result.
Ive considered Mr Ls argument that, had his attempted payment gone through successfully, 
the account would have been within its authorised overdraft. Given the time thats passed, 
theres limited information available about why this payment didnt go through  so I cant 
safely say it was a bank error. Im conscious that TSB did ask Mr L about an attempted 
payment he mentioned prior to the default being applied, but he didnt provide the details 
hes now given us at the time  prejudicing its ability to look into this further. 
There is a reasonable expectation for consumers to mitigate their losses when something 
goes wrong. Despite being aware that the payment hadnt gone through, meaning they 
retained the funds, Ive seen no evidence that either account holder attempted to make 
further payments. So they still owed TSB over £3,000. And the overdraft was payable on 
demand.Following the one failed payment attempt, I consider it reasonable that TSB attempted 
further recovery. Im satisfied it gave the account holders sufficient opportunity to repay the 
debt  making the consequences clear if they didnt  before applying the defaults. 
Ultimately, TSB had a duty to accurately report the status of the account. I consider it fair 
and correct to report the defaults to reflect that no payments had been made and that the 
relationship had effectively broken down. 
Mr L says TSB were fully aware of the circumstances but didnt help. Whilst he thinks there 
ought to be a specific process to assist in disputes between account holders, Im satisfied 
TSB treated him and Ms L fairly in light of their situation. I say this because it prevented 
further withdrawals and allowed them additional time to pay. As my provisional decision 
explained, I cant reasonably agree that TSB should have waited indefinitely for the account 
holders to settle their dispute before expecting them to repay the money it had lent. In line 
with the terms of the account, its entitled to pursue Mr L and/or Ms L for the money owed on 
the account. Based on the call note Ive seen, TSB explained this to Mr L when he called 
about the transfer. 
I realise this is a sensitive complaint which the consumers understandably feel strongly 
about. Ive considered their circumstances carefully when reaching my final decision. I 
appreciate the points Mr L has put forward about possible opportunities for the defaults to 
have been avoided. But the events hes mentioned  such as the attempted payment and 
the fees  occurred a long time before the default was applied. And Ive not found (on 
balance) that these were bank errors. In any event, as Ive explained, there is an expectation 
on consumers to mitigate their losses. Mr L and Ms L would have needed to take further 
action to avoid the defaults once the account breached the overdraft limit.
Overall Im satisfied TSB allowed Mr L and Ms L ample time to pay before taking further 
action  and only did so after making the consequences clear. From TSBs perspective, it 
hadnt received any payments towards the outstanding debt for around eight months and 
both account holders said they wouldnt pay. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the 
defaults were applied fairly and so Im not directing TSB to remove them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman