DRN-2580662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have unfairly 
declined their legal expenses insurance claim.
RSA uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses policy, so any reference to the 
insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of any such 
intermediaries.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K sustained an escape of water at their home in October 2018. Their claim was 
covered under the buildings section of their home insurance policy (also with RSA) but they 
disputed the settlement paid by the insurer. Mr and Mrs K claim that RSA wrongly reduced 
their claim by £83,000 after relying on false representations made by a third party.
Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their legal expenses policy in May 2020 as they wanted to 
take legal action against RSA for an alleged breach of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
rules that require the insurer to deal with their claim fairly. 
RSA declined Mr and Mrs Ks claim for legal expenses, citing a policy term that excluded 
cover for legal proceedings being brought against the insurer in relation to an insurance 
claim or the way it should be settled. Mr and Mrs K say this term is unfair. They also say they 
are not just seeking to engage their legal expenses policy to recover what they feel is owed 
under the buildings section of the policy, but to sue for damages relating to RSAs alleged 
breach of FCA rules (namely ICOBS 8.1.1 and 2.5) pursuant to section 138D(2) of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. They say there is no policy term excluding legal 
expenses cover for pursuing RSA for the contravention of FCA rules, so their claim should 
be covered.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he was satisfied that RSA had fairly declined 
the claim in reliance on the policy exclusions it had highlighted. Mr and Mrs K disagreed, so 
the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
I understand that Mr and Mrs K are pursuing a separate complaint about RSAs handling of 
their buildings insurance claim and the settlement it paid, so I will not be commenting on any 
matters related to buildings insurance complaint within this decision, which is concerned 
solely with RSAs handling of the legal expenses claim and whether it declined the claim 
fairly.
The policy terms and conditions state that the following claims will not be covered:
7. Any legal proceedings over loss or damage covered under a specific insurance 
policy.
8. A dispute about either the amount an insurance company should pay to settle an 
insurance claim or the way a claim should be settled. 

11. Any dispute with us or the insurer that is not dealt with under the arbitration 
condition on this page.
The policy states that the insurer of the legal expenses policy is RSA, which is the same 
insurer of the buildings section of Mr and Mrs K home insurance policy. And given that their 
dispute concerns the amount the insurer should pay under the buildings insurance claim, Im 
satisfied it is clearly not covered under the policy terms and conditions  namely exclusion 8 
listed above which specifically excludes cover for legal expenses in these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs K say they are not just seeking to recover the £83,000 amount they feel they are 
owed under their building insurance claim, but are seeking damages for RSAs alleged 
breach of FCA rules. They say they have breached ICOBS 8.1.1 (which requires the insurer 
to handle claims fairly); ICOBS 2.5 (which requires the insurer to act in the customers best 
interests); and ICOBS 2.5.3 (which states that an insurer can rely on information provided by 
third parties unless it is aware of facts that would give reasonable grounds to question the 
accuracy of the information). 
I appreciate this may be the action that Mr and Mrs K wish to pursue against RSA. But that 
does not change the fact that the cause of action still stems from their dispute about how 
much RSA should pay to settle their buildings insurance claim. The reason they believe the 
insurer has breached FCA rules is seemingly because it allegedly relied on a false 
representation of a third party to reduce the claim amount by £83,000. So, whether Mr and 
Mrs K want to categorise this as a breach of contract or breach of statutory duty, it is still 
excluded under the policy terms and conditions by virtue of the underlying dispute. 
In any event, the policy also excludes cover for any dispute with theinsurer that is not 
dealt with under the arbitration condition of this page [my emphasis added], which I consider 
would include legal proceedings being brought in relation to an alleged breach of FCA rules. 
RSA have chosen not to extend liability to such claims, and I consider that the exclusion is 
clear that it will not cover legal expenses for proceedings being brought against it. 
Mr and Mrs K say that these exclusion clauses are unfair. But it is up to the insurer to decide 
which risks it is willing to cover, and it is not uncommon for insurers to exclude legal 
expenses cover for claims that would fund legal action being brought against itself. And the 
fact that an insurer would seek to limit their liability in this way does not, in my judgment, 
make the term inherently unfair or unreasonable. 
As a result, I do not consider that RSA have unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Ks legal expenses 
claim, or that they are in contravention of the ICOBS rules by having done so.  I therefore will 
not be directing it to take any further action. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr and Mrs K, but in the circumstances Im not able to agree that RSA has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman