DRN-2071292
The complaint
Ms B complains both that Barclays Bank UK Plc has not upheld her chargeback request and 
about the poor service she received when raising her claim.
What happened
Ms B purchased 2 airline tickets through a ticketing agency. The total cost of the tickets was 
£1057.82
When Ms B and her friend went to the airport they weren't allowed to board because of an 
issue with one of their visas. Ms B complained to the airline who agreed they were entitled to 
fly but by the time this was agreed, it was too late to go to the original flight and the one the 
next day was full. There wasn't a flight available for several days, which would have been 
too late for their plans, so in the end they didnt fly.
Ms B contacted to the ticketing agency who said the tickets were non refundable. It could 
refund the taxes on the unused tickets but Ms B would need to go to the airline or the bank 
for the balance.
Ms B raised a chargeback claim with Barclays on 16 January 2019. She says she was told 
on 22 January that shed be getting a full refund and that this was repeated to her over the 
next 2 days. When nothing arrived, she contacted the bank on 11 February to be told it was 
now waiting for the merchant to reply.
Ms B says she chased Barclays for an update in March, She was then told that her claim 
had been closed on 14 March because Ms B hadnt replied to the merchants response. Ms 
B says she didnt get this letter as it had been sent to her old address in the UK even though 
shed called in to her local branch in January to say that shed be going abroad and to 
provide the details of her new address. 
Ms B says that on 28 March Barclays deducted the cost of the tickets again from her card, 
meaning that she'd now paid twice for the tickets. Although this second payment was 
refunded Mrs B remains unhappy. She doesnt feel Barclays has investigated her claim 
properly. She says Barclays assured her several times in January that shed be getting a full 
refund but this didnt happen. It then told her that shed have to wait for the merchants 
response.  When this arrived Barclays sent it to her old address even though shed updated 
her details in branch some time before. As a result she didnt get the chance to comment.  
Ms B says this was a very stressful situation as she was a student at the time and was trying 
to cope with exams while also chasing the chargeback. She says she can't afford to lose this 
refund.Shed like a full refund of the cost of her tickets plus £1,500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes had.
Barclays said it had closed the claim initially because it didnt receive a reply from Ms B to 
the merchants response and under the scheme rules, it wasn't possible to reopen it now. It 
accepted that it had sent the response to Ms B's UK address but said it didnt feel that the 
claim would have been successful as Ms B had purchased non-refundable tickets in this case. However it agreed that Ms B hadnt been kept as well informed as she should have 
been and that thered been some delay in dealing with this matter and said it had intended to 
offer £50 compensation for this but for some reason, forgot to include this with its letter at the 
time.
With regard to the duplicate payment, it explained that this was a systems error which had 
mistakenly re-debited the payment when the claim was closed. Barclays said it had refunded 
the money as soon as it was told. It also offered her £100 compensation. This was made up 
of the £50 that should have been offered on the original complaint and a further £50 to cover 
the cost of Ms Bs overseas calls and the fact she hadnt been kept properly updated on the 
progress of the claim. It felt this was reasonable.
Our investigator acknowledged that thered been issues in the way Barclays had dealt with 
this claim but she didnt agree that it had acted unfairly in deciding not to continue with this 
claim.  The merchant had provided information to show the tickets were non-refundable 
except for certain very limited circumstances that didn't apply here. It was also possible that 
Ms B might be entitled to a partial refund as the tickets hadn't been used but that was 
something that would need to be taken up with the merchant as it didnt fit under the 
chargeback scheme. 
Ms B had explained very clearly the problems she'd had in pursuing this claim with Barclays. 
But Barclays had now offered Ms B £100 compensation for her what had happened and 
she felt this was reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms B.
Mrs B disagrees and says, in summary:
Barclays closed the dispute without her knowledge and without letting her reply to the 
merchants response.
Barclays then deducted the cost of the tickets twice. She didnt agree this was simply 
a systems error and considers Barclays must take responsibility for this.
She had completed the necessary paperwork to change her address in branch and if 
Barclays couldnt find this then it was another failure in their systems
She doesnt feel the ticketing agencys T &Cs were applicable in this case as it was a 
mistake by the airline. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information on any particular point is contradictory or incomplete Ive gone on to 
consider what more likely than not to have happened and made my decision on the balance 
of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but in my decision Ill only comment on those facts 
that I consider to be relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it into account but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
explain my decision.
In this case theres two parts to this complaint: the first is whether Barclays was reasonable 
in deciding not to pursue this claim and the second is the way it handled Ms Bs claim.
Chargeback claimI should explain that a chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme, not a legal right, under 
which a consumer can ask their bank to claim back the cost of goods or services from the 
merchants bank. However a chargeback doesnt apply in every case as there needs to be 
evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Its not for the bank to decide if 
the claim is valid as thats a matter for the scheme provider, which in this case was Visa, but 
the bank can consider if a chargeback is likely to be successful. If it doesnt think it will, then 
we wouldnt require it to continue with the chargeback claim.
Mrs B bought her tickets from a ticketing agency so Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
that applied to this purchase.  These set out some very limited circumstances in which a 
refund might be permitted which were in brief, that if the airline cancelled or postponed the 
flight a refund might be available. In the event of a cancellation by the traveller it would be for 
the airline to decide and where the tickets were simply not used for any reason, the terms 
and conditions stated that there might be a partial refund.
I've seen that Ms B and her friend werent able to travel on the flight theyd booked but that 
wasnt because it was cancelled or postponed but because the airline didn't allow them to 
board. This wasn't one of the reasons in the terms and conditions that permitted a refund. As 
a result the ticketing agency offered a refund of the taxes but not the cost of the flight and 
suggested Ms B pursue her claim with the bank or the airline. 
However when Barclays looked into the claim it found the same problem as Ms B had done, 
that is that there wasnt any right to a full refund in these circumstances. I can understand 
why Ms B feels its unfair  she wasnt able to travel through no fault of her own -but I cant 
agree that Barclays decision not to pursue the claim was unreasonable. There was nothing 
to show the merchant had breached the terms and conditions by not offering a refund and so 
it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to decide it couldnt accept the claim  and that the 
outcome would have been the same even if it hadnt written to Ms B at her old address.
handling of the chargeback claim
The second part of this complaint relates to the way Barclays dealt with it. Ive reviewed the 
internal systems notes for this matter and I cant see that Barclays told Ms B that itd be 
making her an immediate refund.  However, where a chargeback claim is made its usual for 
the bank to refund the amount in question while the claim is being considered on the basis 
that, if the claim is later rejected, that amount will be re-debited from the consumer.  While I 
cant be certain it seems probable that this was what was intended here. 
But in this case Barclays hadnt refunded the original sum to Ms B's account. So when the 
claim was closed no further deduction needed to be made. Unfortunately the system didnt 
seem to recognise this as it went ahead and took a further payment for that amount from Ms 
Bs account meaning that shed effectively paid twice for the flights.  Barclays says this was 
a systems error that it cant explain. I think thats probable but I can understand why Mrs B 
found it so upsetting and why she thinks it was poor service.
Ms B says she wasnt given the opportunity to defend the merchants response because 
Barclays sent it to her old address. Its clear theres some dispute between Barclays and Ms 
B as to whether she did update her address in branch in January. However Barclays agree 
that Ms B had told them at this visit that she was going away with the result it had put a gone 
away marker on her account so I'd also have expected it to have checked her contact details 
at that point. 
I can understand Ms Bs frustration at not getting the chance to comment before the claim 
was closed. It clearly added to her concern at the way her claim was being handed and the lack of information she was being given. For that reason I think its reasonable for Barclays 
to compensate Ms B for her upset and inconvenience caused by this.
Barclays has offered Ms B £100 for the delay, the poor communication and the payment 
taken in error.  I realise that Ms B may not feel this is enough - and that it doesn't address 
her fundamental complaint about the chargeback -but I think its fair and in line with what Id 
award for similar complaints of poor service.  However for the reasons given above, I dont 
consider that Barclays' decision to close the chargeback claim was unreasonable so I wont 
be asking it to do anything more in that regard.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman