DRN-3800965
The complaint
Miss M complains that Inclusive Finance Limited trading as Creditspring lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M had been provided with a loan by CreditSpring in November 2019. The loan was 
repaid early, and Miss M doesnt have a complaint about that. CreditSpring then agreed to 
provide her with two loans of £500 each on 18 September 2021.The first loan was paid 
straight away. This loan had to be paid over six monthly instalments of £83, plus a monthly 
£10 charge but no further interest. The second loan wouldnt be released until the first one 
had been repaid, and no payments missed. As it transpired Miss M only received the first 
loan. She paid the first payment but missed the second one and then only paid a part 
payment. In January 2022 she cancelled the direct debit and the balance still remains 
outstanding. 
Miss M complained to CreditSpring about irresponsible lending. In response it said it carried 
out an extensive check on Miss Ms income, outgoings, and credit repayments. This included 
carrying out a full credit check. It said that as she was effectively being given two loans it 
would have carried out the same checks for the second loan. It assessed the loan as being 
affordable. It has advised that the current outstanding balance is £369.82, and if Miss M 
could make a one-off payment it will accept a partial payment with a 50% reduction of 
£184.00 and mark the account on her credit report as partially settled. Miss M didnt accept 
the offer.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our investigator said he thought from the 
evidence provided that Creditsprings decision to lend to Miss M in September 2021 was fair, 
given what the information about her that it obtained showed.
Miss M disagreed, pointing out that CreditSpring hadnt looked at her bank statements. She 
had a number of outstanding loans and the statements would have shown that she had 
missed some direct debit payments, and that she had spent substantial sums on gambling.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did CreditSpring complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required CreditSpring to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so CreditSpring had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that CreditSpring had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for CreditSpring to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
CreditSpring had the information from Miss Ms previous loan which had been dealt with by 
her satisfactorily. For this loan CreditSpring carried out an extensive check of Miss Ms credit 
record. This showed that she had outstanding active balances on unsecured lending of 
£8,233. She had six unsecured loan accounts. She also had a default registered 13 months 
prior to this lending. Her loan repayments (according to the report) were £425 monthly. 
Miss Ms monthly income was assessed at £1,600. Her spending on food and utilities was 
about £300, with rent of £125. Her debt repayments were estimated at £250 but as Ive 
noted £425 is a more realistic figure. This would still have left her with a disposable income 
of over £677 a month.
Taking account of the amount of the loan, and the short term nature of it, I think CreditSpring 
carried out proportionate checks, especially as Miss M had paid the previous loan 
satisfactorily. I think those checks showed that she could afford the first loan of £500. As she 
wasnt able to take up the second loan, CreditSpring didnt carry out any further checks.I understand that Miss M feels that CreditSpring should have looked at her bank statements. 
There is no obligation for lenders to consider bank statements. I think the credit reference 
agency in this case reviewed a part of her bank account to check the salary payment but this 
wouldnt be a full consideration of the statement. Given the modest amount being lent I think 
that reviewing bank statements would have been disproportionate.
However Ive looked at Miss Ms statements, as she has supplied them, for the three month 
period up to and including the loan application. Whilst Miss M says the statements show 
numerous payments for gambling, I cant see any extensive spend on gambling. It does 
show a number of payments to an online payment service but those payments could be for 
any number of things apart from gambling. She went overdrawn on occasions but never, in 
the three months of statements Ive seen, by more than £33. I should add that a lender 
would only be looking at non-discretionary expenditure i.e. necessary living expenses. 
CreditSpring wouldnt have seen the figures in the bank statements but even if it had I dont 
think that they would have indicated that Miss M was in difficulty over managing her 
finances.
So I think CreditSpring made a fair lending decision. If Miss M wants to take up its offer to 
accept a reduced payment against the account, she should contact CreditSpring directly. 
Though she should be aware that the arrangement will be noted on her credit record.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman