DRN-2831883
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage taken out in Mr Ds name with Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Birmingham Midshires in 2008. Mr D says he didnt take out the mortgage, and 
Birmingham Midshires shouldnt have added its legal costs to the mortgage debt. Mr D says 
the mortgage was taken out fraudulently by his son.
What happened
The background to this complaint is extensive and goes back many years. Both sides are 
fully aware of it, and to prevent the risk of identifying Mr D when this decision is published I 
wont detail it here.
A previous complaint was referred to this service, which culminated in a final decision being 
issued in May 2018. That decision said:
It seems Mr D was aware a mortgage had been taken out in his name as his solicitor 
 in a letter in October 2017 to his sons solicitor  confirmed as such.
The mortgage was introduced by a mortgage broker, and Birmingham Midshires was 
entitled to rely on the information that was provided by that third party. It accepted the 
application in good faith, and the dispute seems to be between Mr D, his son and the 
mortgage broker.
Mr D instructed a solicitor, and they wrote to Birmingham Midshires notifying it of Mr Ds 
intention to take legal action over the matter. Due to the threat of legal action, Birmingham 
Midshires instructed its solicitor to deal with matters. Correspondence passed between the 
parties, but nothing further came of it as Mr D says he didnt have the funds to pursue things.
Mr D arranged lending elsewhere to repay the Birmingham Midshires mortgage, but when he 
came to repay the mortgage it came to light that Birmingham Midshires legal costs for the 
above-mentioned correspondence had been added to the debt.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt look at the earlier complaint again, and she said 
Birmingham Midshires was allowed to add the legal costs to the mortgage debt. Mr D didnt 
agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr D has said hes not raising the 2018 complaint again, I must also 
bear in mind some of his submissions are based on the fact he doesnt recognise this as his 
mortgage debt. For that reason I need to provide the following explanation to give context to 
my decision about the legal costs being added to the mortgage.
We dont decide every complaint thats referred to us. There are some complaints that we 
cant look at, because the rules we operate under dont allow us to. And there are others that 
we are able to look at, but we choose not to due to their circumstances. The rules that set 
this out are referred to as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are laid down within the 
Financial Conduct Authority handbook. 
DISP rule 3.3.4A says The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the 
Ombudsman considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would seriously impair the effective operation of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP rule 3.3.4B says Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously 
impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available 
to the complainant).
This means that I wont be looking again at the issues that were covered in 2018. On that 
basis, I can only consider this complaint from the starting point that Birmingham Midshires 
did nothing wrong when the mortgage was set up, and Mr D was aware  at the time it was 
taken out  that the mortgage was in his name. That means I can only consider this 
complaint on the basis that Mr D is bound by the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
So, I am deciding if Birmingham Midshires was allowed to add the legal costs it incurred, in 
responding to Mr Ds solicitors warning of legal action, to the mortgage that was held in 
Mr Ds name. 
Mr D has said:
Legal costs, added to a mortgage, differ significantly to Civil Claim Costs. Under the 
civil procedure rules you can only claim costs, from a Civil Claim, once that claim has 
settled and there is an entitlement to costs or a court order. You were fully aware that 
this was A Civil Claim.
If, as an Ombudsman, you are finding that costs can follow from a Civil Claim, 
without any Consent or Order, clearly will cause significant consequences for any 
Defendant lawyers and clearly is legally wrong.
The Civil Claim would have had to have been dismissed by a Court, which was not 
the case, I ask you to provide the legal basis that you state that costs can be added 
to a mortgage settlement, without the knowledge of the person, flowing from a civil 
claim.
Its for the courts to make findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
make a finding that Birmingham Midshires acted in breach of the law. My role requires that I 
make my decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So 
whilst the law is a relevant consideration, our service doesnt automatically approach a 
complaint in the same way that a court might. 
That being said, Ive read the information Mr D has referenced and have taken it into 
consideration but there are some notable differences between that and the situation here. In law, pre-action costs are only recoverable if there is an action, otherwise there is no power 
for a court to award them (with certain exceptions). But were not talking about a courts 
power to award the costs of litigation, rather were talking about a contractual agreement 
whereby one party agrees to indemnify the other against costs incurred in connection with 
the agreement.
Thats a very different thing. Litigants in court cases often have no contractual relationship so 
it is a matter of the courts case management powers, whereas here we have a contractual 
indemnity that can be used.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage allow Birmingham Midshires to add costs to the 
mortgage balance. This includes legal costs. Mr D didnt pursue things to a hearing, but 
Birmingham Midshires solicitor did work on the account once Mr D indicated he was looking 
to take legal action. I dont think the fact that matters didnt go as far as a hearing makes it 
unfair for Birmingham Midshires to pay the solicitors invoices, or to add the costs to the 
mortgage balance.
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that these 
charges havent been applied unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman