DRN-4036458
The complaint
Ms H complains that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined a claim she made on her buildings 
insurance policy.
Reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Ms H held a buildings insurance policy with QIC. When she noticed damage to her 
conservatory, she made a claim. QIC agreed to look at the claim.
A previous complaint has been raised relating to the progress of this claim. We issued a final 
response on that complaint in August 2021.
This complaint relates to events after that final response on that previous complaint. Namely, 
this complaint relates to QICs decline of the claim.
QIC says it declined the claim because theres no evidence of damage to the main building. 
It says such damage is excluded from cover.
Ms H doesnt agree and thinks there is clear subsidence damage to the walls, so thinks the 
claim should be covered.
One of our investigators thought QICs reasons to decline the claim were fair and in line with 
the policy. But she thought QIC should have come to this decision sooner, and the fact it 
hadnt coupled with its actions on the claim led to a significant loss of expectation for Ms H. 
She recommended QIC pay her £600 compensation.
Neither Ms H nor QIC agreed. Both asked for an ombudsmans decision. Ms H thinks the 
claim should be accepted and paid. QIC thinks the compensation is unfair because it paid 
£500 on the previous complaint we looked at relating to this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Im not recommending QIC cover this 
claim, I think its decline is within the terms and conditions of Ms Hs policy. But I agree with 
our investigator in that this decision could have been made sooner  and the fact it wasnt 
has impacted Ms H.
Ms Hs policy covers her for damage caused by subsidence. But it doesnt cover her 
for loss or damage to solid floors and caused by the movement of solid floors, 
unless the foundations beneath the external walls of the main building which you live 
in are damaged at the same time and by the same cause.
From what Ive seen the reports show the likely cause of the damage is due to the 
movement of a solid floor. Ive not seen any expert evidence to counter this. And 
importantly, Ive not seen anything to evidence there has been damage to the 
foundations beneath the external walls of the main building.
I appreciate there is damage to the walls of the conservatory, but this looks to be 
where the structure attaches to the main building.
So, Im satisfied QIC is acting fairly, and in line with the available evidence when 
relying on the above exclusion to decline this claim.
I agree this should have been realised sooner. Its QICs responsibility to know the 
terms of its own policy.
Throughout this claim Ms H has been led to believe her property had suffered 
subsidence damage, and some actions taken by QIC support that, such as removing 
trees and installing a soakaway.
Theres also been delays in actioning the claim after receiving reports. Which when 
considered as a whole do point to a poor experience and a significant loss of 
expectation.
The installation of the soakaway and the removal of trees will have benefitted Ms Hs 
property, and equally would have cost QIC. So, Im mindful of that when considering 
what compensation is appropriate.
But Im satisfied £600 is reasonable. She was given the impression the claim would 
be covered and has had issues since the previous complaint which will have caused 
additional distress and inconvenience. To find that it now isnt covered will be even 
more distressing.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay Ms H £600 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman