DRN-3867780
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Target Servicing Limited has administered her second charge 
mortgage (secured loan). In particular, shes unhappy that it repeatedly sends her arrears 
letters even though she believes shes paid on time. And shes unhappy with what it has 
reported to her credit file.
What happened
Mrs A took her loan out in late 2008. The lenders have changed over the years since. The 
current lender is not itself a regulated firm, but it has appointed Target to manage the loan 
on its behalf. As the regulated entity administering the loan, Target is responsible for 
answering this complaint. 
Mrs A complains that Target sends her arrears letters each month. Thats because Target 
believes the payment due date is the 13th of the month, but Mrs A believes its the 27th. So 
when she doesnt pay on the 13th, Target writes to her to tell her she has missed a payment 
and her loan is in arrears. 
Separately, Mrs A was in arrears having missed some payments in early 2020. At the start of 
the coronavirus pandemic, she asked Target for a payment deferral in line with the 
regulators guidance. But Target refused to agree a payment deferral because of the arrears. 
Instead, it offered a nil payment arrangement  and recorded the payment arrangement on 
her credit file.  
Mrs A complains about how Target recorded this period to her credit file. And she also 
complains that after the arrangement ended, it continued to record arrears on her credit file. 
She doesnt believe the information on her credit file is fair or accurate, and says it has 
stopped her taking out alternative finance to repay this loan, and stopped her re-mortgaging 
her main mortgage.
Target said that the payment date was the 13th of the month and it couldnt change that. If 
Mrs A wanted to avoid getting arrears letters, she would need to change her direct debit to 
pay on the 13th of each month. Target also said that Mrs A wasnt entitled to a coronavirus 
payment deferral in March 2020, because her loan was in arrears at the time. It said it 
offered her a payment arrangement and correctly recorded that as agreed arrears on her 
credit file.
Target said that when the payment arrangement ended in September 2020 it sent Mrs A an 
income and expenditure form but she didnt return it until mid-October. Once it received the 
form, it put a further payment arrangement in place. But there was no arrangement in place 
for October. Target said it had recorded her account correctly on her credit file and it wasnt 
responsible if the income and expenditure form had been delayed in the post. 
Target has issued several final responses to Mrs As complaints:
26 October 2021  about information reported to Mrs As credit file.
29 June 2021  about changes to the payment due date and whether Mrs A was in 
arrears as a result, and about whether Target can communicate by email rather than 
post.
29 October 2020  about reporting to Mrs As credit file. Target said there was a 
payment arrangement until September 2020. Mrs A then did not return an income 
and expenditure form, so no new arrangement was put in place for October.
18 April 2020  about refusal of a covid-19 payment deferral, offering a two month 
payment arrangement (recorded as arrears) instead, and about whether a payment 
missed by agreement in December 2019 should be recorded as arrears. 
23 January 2020  about the loan balance and whether the settlement figure Mrs A 
had been given was too high. 
Our investigator said part of the complaint was out of time. And he said that Target should 
have been treating the payment due date as the 27th of the month. And he said that Target 
should have granted Mrs A a coronavirus payment deferral in March 2020  although that 
part of the complaint was out of time, he said Target should correct the impact of refusing to 
do so on her credit file from October 2020 onwards. It should pay Mrs A £300 compensation.
Mrs A accepted that. But Target didnt. It said it would amend Mrs As credit file and pay 
£300 compensation. But it said it couldnt change the due date on Mrs As account. It said 
she would need to change the date she made payment to the 13th of the month if she 
wanted to avoid arrears letters in the future. 
Target then made some changes to Mrs As credit file. But Mrs A wasnt happy with what it 
had done. As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a decision to be 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are time limits for making complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ive set 
out above that Mrs A has made several complaints to Target, and has been sent several 
final responses. A complaint must be made to us within six months of the date of the firms 
final response (unless there are exceptional circumstances). Our investigator explained that 
this meant we could only consider Mrs As complaints about:
The due date, and how Target has administered this;
The administration of Mrs As account since October 2020, including what was 
reported to her credit file.
The complaints about the refusal of a coronavirus payment deferral and how that was 
recorded to Mrs As credit file were out of time, as she hadnt brought them to us within six 
months of Targets final response. The same was true of the complaint about the settlement 
figure quoted in January 2020. 
I agree with his findings about that. And Mrs A accepted what he said. So in this decision Ill 
focus on those two complaints which were made in time.Reporting to Mrs As credit file since October 2020
Target has shown us what it initially reported to Mrs As credit file. This shows that she was 
one month in arrears in December 2019, by arrangement, but the account was up to date in 
January and February 2020.
From March 2020, it reported arrears by arrangement, with the arrears showing as the 
equivalent of one months payment, two in April and three in May. From June to August it 
reported the account as being up to date, but then reported it as four months in arrears in 
September. From October 2020 to March 2021 it is reported as being up to date, but is then 
four months in arrears again in April 2021. From May 2021 onwards it is reported as being 
up to date again. 
Following the investigators view, Target made some changes. Following those changes, it 
removed the record of number of months of arrears. But it still reported that Mrs A was in an 
arrangement between March 2020 and May 2021.
Im conscious that I can only deal with a complaint about what was recorded to Mrs As 
credit file from October 2020 onwards  her earlier complaints about the refusal of a 
payment deferral in March 2020 and the reporting to her credit file between then and 
September 2020 are out of time.
However, I need to consider what happened in that period to decide whether the reporting 
from October 2020 onwards was fair.
Target said Mrs A wasnt entitled to a covid-19 payment deferral in March 2020 because she 
was in arrears at the time. 
Mrs A was in arrears  her December 2019 direct debit had bounced. Shed made small 
overpayments in January and February 2020, so by March the arrears were less than one 
months payment. But they hadnt been cleared completely.
However, this was not a good reason for refusing a payment deferral. The regulators 
guidance was clear that pre-existing arrears was not a bar for a payment deferral. Target 
should not have refused a payment deferral to Mrs A. 
Mrs A didnt make any payments in March, April and May 2020. She resumed making 
payments in June 2020, though paid slightly less than the monthly payment. 
Under the regulators guidance, had Target given Mrs A a payment deferral as it should, it 
should not have treated the payments missed in March April and May as arrears and should 
not have recorded a worsening position on her credit file as a result of the deferral.
Because of the payment arrangement, Target considered Mrs A to be in arrears of around 
£1,070 in October 2020. Had Target granted a payment deferral instead, in line with the 
regulators guidance, then she would instead have been around £270 in arrears  this is 
disregarding the deferred payments from March to June, but taking into account the 
remaining part of the missed December 2019 payment, and taking into account that from 
June onwards Mrs A paid slightly less than the monthly payment due.
At this time the contractual monthly payment was £246.67, so  even had a payment 
deferral been granted in March  in October 2020 Mrs A would have been in arrears by more 
than one months payment. 
As she continued to pay £231 until February 2021  against an amount due of £246.67  the arrears continued to mount slightly. And then in May 2021 Mrs A paid a lump sum of just 
over £1,000, which cleared the arrears (including what ought to have been the deferred 
payments from March 2020).
Therefore, had Target granted Mrs A a payment deferral in March 2020  as it should have 
done  then between October 2020 and May 2021, her credit file would still have shown that 
she was in arrears by arrangement. 
That is in fact what her credit file does show after the amendments Target made following 
the investigators view. The copy credit file Mrs A has provided shows that, and so does the 
record of its reporting Target has given us.
Im therefore satisfied that the amendments Target has now made to Mrs As credit file mean 
that, from October 2020 onwards, it fairly reflects what it should do. And therefore I dont 
intend to require Target to make any further amendments.
The payment due date
Target says that when the previous lender entered into the loan agreement, the monthly 
payment date was set at the 13th. But the previous lender also said that Mrs A could choose 
a different date that suited her, and she chose the 27th. Mrs A has therefore always paid on 
the 27th. The loan has since been transferred to the new lender and Target has taken over 
the administration. It says that it cant change the contractual payment date, and because 
Mrs A continues to pay on the 27th, that means she pays late and it has to contact her to 
understand why the payment has been missed.
I dont think this is a reasonable explanation. As soon as the loan was taken out the previous 
lender agreed with Mrs A that she could pay on the 27th. To my mind, thats a change to the 
contract. The previous lender agreed to vary the contract to accept payments on the 27th. 
Target should have honoured that agreement, and should have amended its systems to 
expect payment on the 27th of each month not the 13th.
Ive also noted the welcome letter sent when Target took over in May 2018. This tells Mrs A 
that she does not need to take any action regarding her direct debit. So if it was the case 
that Target proposed to revert to requiring payment on the 13th of the month, and not honour 
the previous lenders agreement to accept payment on the 27th as the due date, this letter is 
misleading. Target ought fairly to have explained this change to Mrs A at the time. 
In any case, the contractual documents dont say the due date is the 13th of the month. The 
fixed sum loan agreement says that payment is due one month after the date of this 
agreement and then on the same date every month after that. The agreement is dated 30 
December 2008  which would make the payment date the 30th of the month not the 13th. 
However the 30th of the month wouldnt always be practical  in February, for example. On 
the day the loan completed, the lender wrote to Mrs A telling her that the due date was the 
27th of the month  which is consistent with a completion date of the 30th, adjusted to allow 
for February each year. 
Taking that into account, therefore, I think the contractual due date at the start of the loan 
was not the 13th, it was the 30th  but changed immediately to the 27th. Therefore the 27th 
is the contractual due date.  
And even if Im wrong about that, and the contractual due date was set as the 13th as Target 
says, I think its clear that the previous lender did agree to accept payments on the 27th and 
treated that as the due date from the outset. Mrs A had a reasonable expectation that would 
continue after the transfer. And I can see no good reason why Target wouldnt continue that arrangement. So even if, as a matter of contract, Mrs A is required to pay by the 13th of the 
month I see no reason why Target cant, acting fairly, agree to accept payment on the 27th 
of the month and only treat Mrs A as being in arrears if that date is missed. 
My conclusion on that is supported by the rules of mortgage regulation  MCOB 13.3.2A (4) 
says that as part of dealing with payment difficulties a lender should grant a change to the 
payment due date unless theres good reason not to. As the regulated administrator, 
Target stands in the lenders shoes in this respect. I see no good reason why it shouldnt 
have agreed to retain the change to the due date agreed by the previous lender. Saying that 
it cant agree to a change because the original contract documentation says the 13th is the 
due date is not, in my view, a good reason.
Target has been aware of this issue for some time  it appears since around 2019  and 
hasnt taken steps to resolve things. Its merely said there was nothing it could do and Mrs A 
would need to change her payment date. Ive already explained why I dont think this was a 
fair approach  and in my view Targets insistence on this for several years compounded the 
issue. It resulted in Mrs A regularly receiving unnecessary arrears letters, which she found 
distressing. Ill take this into account in assessing the overall level of compensation I think is 
fair. 
Putting things right
Ive explained that the changes Target made to Mrs As credit file following our investigators 
involvement are enough to resolve that part of her complaint. In respect of the payment date, 
I think Target should allow Mrs A to pay her monthly payment on the 27th of each month 
without treating her as being in arrears.
Ive said that Im not persuaded that theres any evidence that the payment date was ever 
actually the 13th of the month  thats not what the loan agreement says, and its not what 
the previous lender said. I think its most likely Target is simply mistaken about this.
Target says its not possible for it to amend the payment date. Its not clear to me whether 
this means that it doesnt believe its entitled to do so, or whether its systems physically 
wont allow it to do so.
But in any case, it should, acting fairly, treat Mrs As payment due date as the 27th of the 
month. It could do that either by:
Amending the due date recorded on its systems; or
Not amending the due date recorded on its systems, but manually amending the 
account each month so that a payment on the 27th is not recorded or treated as 
arrears and does not result in arrears letters being sent.
There may be other options too. But whatever the means by which it chooses to give effect 
to this, Target must allow Mrs A to make payment on the 27th of each month, and must not 
treat her as being in arrears as a result  including that it must not send her arrears or 
missed payment letters unless she has not paid by the 27th.
Im satisfied that the repeated and unnecessary arrears letters, and the  now corrected  
entries on Mrs As credit file caused her considerable distress. And I agree that £300 
represents fair compensation. I understand Target has already paid this to Mrs A; if it has not 
done so, it should do so now.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Treat the 27th of each month as Mrs As payment due date and not treat her as being 
in arrears, or contact her or send automated letters to her as if she had missed that 
months payment, provided she makes payment on or before the 27th.
Im satisfied that the amendments Target Servicing Limited has made to Mrs As credit file in 
respect of entries from October 2020 onwards mean that it now fairly reflects the conduct of 
her account. And I understand that it has already paid her £300 compensation  if it has not, 
I direct it to do so now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman