DRN-2403457
The complaint
Mrs C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out on the online in 2011 at the same 
time as Mrs C applied for the card. The policy gave Mrs C accident, sickness and
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she has no recollection of selecting PPI, she wasnt aware she had it. But I think 
Tesco made Mrs C aware the PPI was optional, and she chose to take it. I say this as Tesco 
has explained that its online application process gave the option to select or decline PPI and 
I can see her credit agreement shows she selected it, and also signed electronically to 
confirm she wanted it. 
Mrs C has provided evidence showing she was off work sick for a period of time in 2017 and 
2018. And she says she would have used her policy had she been aware she had it. But this 
doesnt change my conclusion that Tesco made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs C 
agreed to take it. She might however be able to make a retrospective claim and should 
contact the bank directly to investigate this further.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt need to check if it was suitable
for her. This means it was up to Mrs C to decide whether the policy was right for her
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was unable to
work or lost her job.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations.
And the PPI was a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently 
affordable.
She wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer and the PPI would have paid out for 
up to 12 months for all successful accident and sickness claims. Overall, based on her 
circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mrs C wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. I think she would still have taken out the 
policy.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman