DRN-3840997
The complaint
Mr G complains about a decision Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, made to reject a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
While on holiday in 2019, Mr G hired a car and paid a refundable deposit using a credit card
issued by Halifax. Unfortunately, he was taken ill and a fellow traveller  his brother -
returned the car. 
Mr G hasnt received his deposit back and he approached Halifax for help. He said that 
section 75 held them jointly liable for any breach of contract by the merchant.
The merchant provided evidence to suggest they had processed a refund to a credit card 
used to add Mr Gs brother as an additional driver, the account appears to belong to Mr Gs 
brother. Halifax therefore didnt think there had been a breach of contract and neither did our 
investigator.
Mr G disagreed and the complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract here. When the car was returned the 
merchant refunded the deposit to a card that belonged to Mr Gs brother and one that was 
used to pay at least part of the contract. I think its reasonable in those circumstances to 
expect Mr G to be able to recover that money. Mr G hasnt suggested his relationship with 
his brother had broken down and he was after all, travelling with him and had taken 
responsibility for returning the car. In those circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable 
of Halifax to reject Mr Gs claim and Im not persuaded that they did anything wrong with 
regard to the section 75 claim, or that they therefore need to provide any further 
compensation to Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman