DRN-3572291
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money shes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Miss C says she carried out an internet search for a new loan, then applied to several 
lenders via their websites. She was subsequently contacted via telephone by a company 
which Ill refer to as U. U told her shed been approved for a loan but, before she could have 
the money, she would need to make a payment of £150 via bank transfer for Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  to protect her in the event that she couldnt made the 
scheduled loan repayments. Miss C made the PPI payment as instructed, and she sent 
copies of some documents to U  such as her driving license and bank statements  so it 
could complete its lending checks.
Miss C says the call with U ended abruptly after shed made the PPI payment and she never 
received any loan funds. She realised shed been scammed and contacted Monzo for 
assistance.
Monzo approached the receiving bank shortly after Miss C reported the scam to it, but no 
funds have been recovered. And the bank has declined to reimburse Miss C under the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because its 
said she was not duly diligent and didnt take reasonable steps to check who she was 
paying. 
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator found that Monzo should have reimbursed Miss C under the provisions of 
the CRM Code. Monzo didnt agree, so Miss Cs complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, but its allowed us to apply the Codes 
principles to complaints we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss C has fallen victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo has argued that one of the exceptions applies in 
this case. It says that Miss C made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that 
the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and/or the business or person she was transacting with was legitimate.
Monzo doesnt appear to be relying on an argument that Miss C ignored an effective warning 
that it gave during the payment journey. So, I wont address this topic in any detail. But, for 
the sake of completeness, I will say that Ive looked at the warning Miss C was given and I 
dont think it was effective  although I wouldnt expect Monzo to have given a warning in 
this case due to the nature and value of the payment.
In thinking about whether Miss C had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what 
steps she took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it was 
reasonable for her to proceed with the payment.
Overall, Im satisfised that Miss C had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion. I say 
this because: 
Miss C has said that the websites she visited when applying for new loans appeared 
genuine to her.
Miss C had recently applied for new lending with several companies when U 
contacted her  the telephone call did not come out of the blue. She was expecting 
lending decisions off the back of the applications shed made, and thats what she 
received. I can see why she didnt question the authenticity of Us call.
U requested identification documents so that it could complete its lending checks and 
provided an email address for Miss C to send them to. Im of the opinion that this 
lends an air of legitimacy to what was happening. It is common for lenders to request 
such documentation to support loan applications.
The loan Miss C applied for was for people on a low income and/or with a poor credit 
score. So, I think it makes sense that the lender would ask customers to take out 
PPI, or something similar, in case they couldnt meet the repayments. I acknowledge 
that information on Us website says that lending comes with no fees. I dont know if 
Miss C saw this, but PPI is not the same thing as a fee for lending in any event.
Monzo has pointed to some red flags in the scam and some potential flaws in Miss Cs 
recollection of events. I acknowledge the banks points, but they dont lead me to conclude 
that Miss C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. Ill explain why below: 
Us website may look fake to Monzo, with the benefit of its industry knowledge about 
fraud, and the available links may well be broken now. But I have no way of knowing 
for certain whether the links worked at the time of Miss Cs application. She says that 
they did, and that Us website didnt look fake to her. I have no reason to disbelieve 
her. She has been consistent throughout her testimony and, even if she has 
incorrectly recalled this part of what happened, I dont think it has any bearing on her 
basis for belief  she applied for loans with several companies, by whatever means, 
and she was expecting lending decisions.
The money that Miss C transferred to U was sent to an account in an individuals 
name. Miss C has explained that she did query this, and she was told that her 
payment needed to go to that account before it could be used to purchase PPI. She 
was satisfied with this explanation and reassured by Us apparent trustworthiness. I 
dont think this is unreasonable in all of the circumstances.
Monzo has pointed out that checking the FCAs register and/or carrying out an 
internet search on the telephone number U provided Miss C with wouldve revealed 
that U was operating a scam. I accept this. But Miss C has said she had no 
knowledge of the FCA at the time, and I suspect this is common amongst laymen. 
And although there was undoubtedly more Miss C couldve done to protect herself 
here, Im not persuaded that she ought to have realised she should do more in the circumstances.
Looking at everything, Im satisfied that the scam was sophisticated, and I dont think its 
unreasonable that it went undetected by Miss C.
To conclude, Im satisfied that Monzo should have reimbursed the money Miss C lost to this 
scam under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not persuaded that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Miss Cs loss within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Miss C should have received a full 
refund under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman