DRN-3883572
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
has refused to refund her money she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mrs M was contacted by someone who said they worked for a Bitcoin trading company that I 
will call B. From what I can see she made credit card payments to DX*Trading-IMPEX.com 
to buy cryptocurrency that was forwarded onto B.
The payments that Mrs M made were as follows;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 10/01/2018 DX*Trading-
IMPEX.com£250.63 £250.63
2 15/01/2018 DX*Trading-
IMPEX.com£2,016.52 £2,267.15
3 15/01/2018 DX*Trading-
IMPEX.com£3,544.24 £5,811.39
Mrs M says that she was told in February by B that all her money had been lost and that she 
would therefore not be able to get her money back.
Some years later Mrs M raised a complaint with Tesco as she believed that Tesco should 
have stopped her from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter they decided that any intervention by Tesco 
would not likely have changed Mrs Ms decision to carry out the transactions in question. 
They also said that Section 75 did not apply as there was no Debtor Creditor Supplier (DCS) 
link between the company that Mrs M paid and B.
Mrs M did not agree with this and therefore her complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mrs M and Tesco sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Tesco should 
refund any of the money Mrs M lost because of the scam. 
Mrs M has accepted she authorised the payments she made, so the starting point here is 
that Mrs M is responsible for making the payments. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
In this instance I can see that Mrs M was contacted by Tesco in relation to the first payment. 
We dont know what exactly was said as, due to the timescales involved, there is no call 
recording available. But from what Tesco have said the call was just to check that Mrs M 
authorised the payment. Given the size of the transaction I dont think that it needed to ask 
any probing questions or do anything more at that point. 
It is arguable that Tesco should have intervened during transaction 2 as the size of the 
transaction was unusual, given Mrs M account usage. So I need to consider what would 
have happened if it had intervened at that point.
Given when this occurred, scams that involved cryptocurrency were not well known. So had 
Tesco asked what Mrs M was intending to do and she told them she was purchasing 
cryptocurrency in order to send it to an investment, I dont think this in itself would have 
caused Tesco to have become aware that Mrs M was likely being scammed. 
All that Tesco could have done was to give a generic warning about the risk of scams in 
general, such as asking Mrs M to research B and DX*Trading-IMPEX.com and saying that 
cryptocurrency was a risky investment. Also given that most cryptocurrency firms were 
unregulated, Tesco could not ask Mrs M to ensure the companies she was dealing with were 
regulated by the FCA either.
I cant see any credible warnings online from the time this occurred about either B or 
DX*Trading-IMPEX.com. So I dont think Tesco directing Mrs M to research either company 
would have changed anything. I am also mindful that Mrs M, by this point, had already made 
one transaction to B and she says at this point shed been told by B that her investment 
had grown from £250.56 to £1,500. So I dont think a general warning about the risks of 
cryptocurrency would have changed her mind to carry on with her transactions. As she had 
by this point made a substantial profit, which I think would have persuaded her to continue 
regardless of any generic warning.
So overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded intervention from Tesco 
wouldve made a difference and prevented Mrs Ms loss in the particular circumstances of 
this case.
In terms of Section 75, the Consumer Credit Act says that certain conditions need to be met 
in order for a claim to be valid. All of the requirements must be present for Section 75 to 
apply; if any are not met, the claim would fail. One of these criteria in summary is that the 
payment has to be made directly to the company that the contract is with.We know Mrs M made payments to DX*Trading-IMPEX.com which correspond with the 
transaction on her account statements. However, crucially, these are not the same entity as 
the business that Mrs M says she contracted with, which was B. As there is insufficient 
evidence to show that the disputed payments were paid directly to B or that B is linked to 
DX*Trading-IMPEX.com, I must conclude that it was not linked to the payments, which 
means the requisite criteria of a Section 75 claim has not been fulfilled. So I dont think that 
Tesco needs to refund the transactions in relation to Section 75.
Overall, having considered everything, I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons given 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman