DRN-4479912
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy her loan account was only defaulted after it was sold to a debt collection 
agency. She complains that Lendable Ltd didnt default her account when it was six months 
in arrears (despite them still owning it at that time).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 November 2023. In this, I explained I wasnt minded to 
uphold Miss Hs complaint because I was satisfied Lendable had acted in line with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance.
Both parties had until 27 November 2023 to send me additional points they wanted me to 
consider. Lendable accepted my provisional decision, but Miss H didnt. Miss H explained 
she wasnt previously aware she could ask for her account to be defaulted. Miss H also said 
that she feels its unfair her credit file will be negatively impacted for the duration of her debt 
management plan which she said will be in place for almost 20 years.
Ive taken Miss Hs additional comments into consideration, but Ive not been persuaded to 
change my mind. Ill explain my reasoning below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint, for these reasons:
Its not disputed that Miss H fell into financial difficulties towards the end of 2019, and 
this prevented her from making her contractual loan payments (of around £230) after 
November 2019. However, she was proactive in updating Lendable about her 
circumstances and worked with a debt charity to set up a debt management plan 
(DMP). When Lendable was made aware of Miss Hs change in circumstances, they 
put a hold on her account and stopped charging interest, and this was the right thing 
for them to do in the circumstances.
In February 2020, Lendable accepted the DMP of reducing Miss Hs payments to 
around £17. And Miss Hs loan statement shows she started making this payment 
from March 2020, and continued to do, in line with the DMP, until her account was 
sold to a debt collection agency in September 2020. So, its also not disputed that 
Miss Hs account was in arrears for just shy of a year before it was sold.
Miss H says her account should have been defaulted in May 2020 because she was 
in six months of arrears at that point. And she feels this should have happened given 
whats detailed in the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance for financial 
businesses like Lendable. I do agree the ICO provides guidance that says an 
account should normally be defaulted by the time its six months in arrears. However, 
the ICOs guidance on defaulting an account, when theres a DMP in place, says 
something slightly different.
When a DMP is in place, the ICO generally advises businesses to report to credit 
referencing agencies that a DMP is in in place. And it says a default shouldnt 
normally be registered unless the terms of the payment arrangement have been 
broken. As mentioned above, Miss H made her monthly payments in line with her 
DMP, so Im not minded to conclude that Lendable treated her unfairly by not 
defaulting her account while they remained responsible for it.
Ive noted what Miss H has said about the notice of sums in arrears she was 
receiving from Lendable. I agree they suggest an account would be defaulted if it was 
six months in arrears. So, I can see why this would cause her frustration when this 
didnt happen  particularly given she says other creditors chose to default her 
accounts with them sooner. However, while the cover letter for the notice of sums in 
arrears suggested her account might be defaulted after six months of arrears, I cant 
see that Lendable ever sent her default notices to suggest that was the action they 
were going to take. I appreciate Miss H says she didnt know she could ask Lendable 
to default her account in May 2020. However, while she may not have had the 
knowledge she has now, she ought to have known at that time if she felt Lendable 
was treating her unfairly or differently to her other creditors. And if she felt unhappy 
about that, Ive not seen evidence to suggest she was prevented from discussing her 
queries/concerns with Lendable at the time. So, while I appreciate this matter has 
caused Miss H some upset and frustration since she raised it with Lendable in late 
2022, I dont consider an award for this would be fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Regarding what Miss H has said about the ongoing impact to her credit file, the same 
six-year timeframe for reporting information to credit reference agencies applies. 
Miss H has told us her debt with Lendable was sold to a debt collection agency 
(DCA) and has sent evidence that shows the DCA defaulted her account in 
February 2022. I acknowledge the debt complained about was defaulted later than 
shed like. However, the difference in the reporting of the default is that the six years 
started in September 2022, rather than the May 2020 date shed prefer.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss H hoped for, but for the reasons above, Im not upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint about Lendable Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman