DRN-2178952
The complaint
Mr E complains that Leeds Building Society linked his daughters email address to his ISA 
account and sent emails to that address. Hes been offered compensation to resolve his 
complaint but hes unhappy with the way in which his complaint has been dealt with.
What happened
Mr E held a five year fixed rate ISA with Leeds Building Society, hereafter referred to as 
LBS. In December 2019 he applied to transfer matured funds from his ISA account to 
another bank.  
On 11 December 2019 LBS emailed Mr Es daughter about his ISA funds transfer. Mr E was 
alerted to this email by his daughter.
Mr E telephoned LBS on 12 December 2019 to make it aware it had sent confidential 
information about his ISA account to an email address he hadnt authorise it use. He was 
concerned his account had been subject to fraudulent activity. 
LBS informed Mr E that the email address it had used had been recorded on his account 
profile since 2011. But he explained that he had not provided that email address to LBS or 
given his permission for it to be used. He asked LBS to investigate what had happened and 
open a complaint on his behalf.
On 14 December 2019 Mr Es daughter informed him that shed received another email from 
LBS, dated the previous day, relating to his ISA transfer. On contacting LBS about this, Mr E 
was advised that his complaint hadnt been correctly logged. So, the call handler he spoke 
with set up a complaint on his behalf and deleted his daughters email address to prevent 
any further emails being sent.
LBS investigated Mr Es concerns about what had happened. And, on 17 December 2019, it 
issued its final response to his complaint. In its final response letter, LBS explained how Mr 
Es daughters email address had been linked to his ISA account. It didnt think it had made 
an error in linking that email address. But it accepted that it could have removed the email 
address from Mr Es account during his telephone call on 12 December 2019. And it said it 
was upholding his complaint about the delay.
To resolve Mr Es complaint, LBS sent him a cheque for £75 compensation. It thought this 
recognised the trouble and upset hed experienced. It also paid him £25 to cover the cost of 
registering his details with CIFAS so that any concerns about information security could be 
addressed by that organisation.
Being dissatisfied with the content of LBS final response letter, and its proposals to resolve 
his concerns, Mr E referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator empathised with Mr 
E. But they didnt recommend upholding his complaint. They recognised that LBS had made 
an error in not removing the incorrect email address sooner. But they were persuaded that 
the compensation it had already paid Mr E was fair and reasonable. So, they didnt think 
LBS needed to do anything else to resolve his complaint. LBS accept our investigators view 
of this complaint, but Mr E didnt and asked to appeal. Ive therefore been passed his 
complaint to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Mr E and LBS for the level of detail contained within their submissions. 
Ive considered all the information provided when reaching my decision. But, if I havent 
specifically referred to a point that Mr E or LBS have made, it isnt because I havent 
considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, an approach that 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
Ive seen the emails LBS sent Mr Es daughter on 11 and 13 December 2019. Im satisfied 
these emails dont reveal any details that would enable a third party to access Mr Es 
account. But the second email does show how much money Mr E was transferring from his 
ISA. It also shows the bank the funds were being transferred to. I can appreciate how these 
emails must have upset Mr E and caused him concern about the security of his account.
Mr E has informed our service that the email address LBS used belongs to his daughter. Its 
bound to have upset Mr E that confidential information about his ISA was shared with his 
daughter. But LBS has explained how it came to use his daughters email address for 
communication relating to his ISA. And it informed Mr E, in its final response to his 
complaint, that this email address had been linked to his account since June 2011. I havent 
seen enough to persuade me that LBS made an error in linking Mr Es daughters email 
address to his account.
I can see that Mr E is unhappy with the explanation LBS provided in its final response letter. 
But I think it gave him a fair explanation of how his daughters email address came to be 
linked to his ISA account. It also reassured Mr E that no account information was sent to any 
other email address. And it accepted a complaint should have been logged during the call Mr 
E made on 12 December 2019.
I realise that LBS final response letter didnt go into the level of detail Mr E wanted or 
expected. But impartially, I think LBS has provided all the information its able to give Mr E. It 
isnt able to elaborate any further and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask it to do anymore 
here.
Its clear that Mr E feels that LBS breached data protection legislation and I can see that our 
investigator has already signposted him to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
should he wish to pursue this issue further. Our investigator was right to say the ICO is 
better placed than this service to look at an organisations handling of personal data because 
its not our role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. So, our 
service wont make a finding on this issue as it falls outside our jurisdiction. And this means I 
wont be commenting on this part of Mr Es complaint within this decision.
In its final response LBS acknowledged that it should have removed the incorrect email 
address from Mr Es account during his telephone call on 12 December 2019. This didnt 
happen until two days later when Mr E telephoned again to confirm that a further email had 
been sent to his daughter. LBS accepts this was an error on its part. And I think LBS missed 
an opportunity to delete Mr Es daughters email address on 12 December 2019. It has 
confirmed that feedback and training has been provided to staff involved, which I think is 
sensible.As I explained in the background to this complaint, LBS has already compensated Mr E for 
the trouble and upset he was caused by it not deleting his daughters email address on 12 
December 2019. So, the issue here is whether LBS has acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
Our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
Im pleased to see that Mr E hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of LBS error, which is 
fortunate. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell LBS to pay 
financial loss or compensation for something that didnt happen.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mr Es experience here went beyond mere irritation. Hes told our service 
he was caused distress and worry by what happened. And I dont dispute that. Its bound to 
have caused him concern that his account could have been accessed by third parties. But 
theres no evidence that any third parties were able to view and access Mr Es account, 
which I hope reassures him.
I recognise that Mr E would have had to spend some time contacting LBS to understand 
what had led to his daughters email address being linked to his account. Ive therefore 
thought about the length of time it took for this issue to be resolved. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the issue with the email address was 
resolved within two telephone calls. Mr E therefore didnt need to spend a great deal of time 
communicating with LBS about the issue affecting his account. And, while LBS could have 
deleted the incorrect email address sooner, Im satisfied it did this within two days of 
becoming aware there was a problem.  
Ive carefully thought about everything Mr E has said about how he was impacted by the 
delay in LBS deleting his daughters email address. But Im persuaded the compensation its 
already paid is a fair amount thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr E 
would have been caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what 
I would have told LBS to pay. I havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here. 
In addition to the £75 compensation LBS paid Mr E to resolve his complaint I can see it gave 
him £25 to pay for the cost in him registering his details with CIFAS so that any concerns 
about information security could be addressed independently by that organisation. I think this 
was a fair approach by LBS because it recognises the concerns Mr E had about whether his 
personal details had been compromised. I should add that this isnt something Id have told 
LBS to do as part of this decision.
I appreciate that Mr E feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But I think LBS has dealt with this complaint fairly 
and done all it can to resolve this dispute. Im satisfied that the compensation its already 
paid Mr E is fair in all the circumstances of his complaint. So, Im not going to ask it to do 
anymore here.This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Es dispute with LBS informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr E any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman