DRN-4267248
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain because Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch) hasnt paid a claim for 
repatriation to their home country under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Arch include the agents appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K and their children lived abroad and were insured under an extended stay 
travel insurance policy, provided by Arch.
In September 2021, Mr and Mrs K notified Arch that one of their children needed surgery 
following an ultrasound. After considering the available medical information, Arch said the 
surgery was non-emergency and an elective procedure and, therefore, wasnt covered under 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks policy. Arch suggested that Mr and Mrs K could 
take their child back to their home country, at their own cost, so the surgery could be carried 
out under the national health insurance scheme there. 
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs K contacted Arch again and said their child needed surgery 
abroad, and this had already been scheduled. Arch asked for a medical report but, a few 
days later, Mr and Mrs K told Arch they had concerns that theyd be stuck abroad for a 
month after their childs surgery in a country where there was conflict going on. Arch then 
suggested that Mr and Mrs K might have cover under their policy for political evacuation to 
the closest country of safety.
When Mr and Mrs K next contacted Arch they said their child was in pain every day but they 
didnt want the surgery to go ahead in situ as theyd then be stranded abroad in a country 
affected by war and sanctions. Mr and Mrs K said they already had problems accessing 
money, and that they needed to cancel their childs surgery and get out of the country. 
Mr and Mrs K arranged and paid for flights for themselves and their children back to their 
home country. They subsequently told Arch they would have been unable to stay abroad for 
longer than a further week with the resources they had, as part of the banking system had 
already been shut down. 
Mr and Mrs K made a claim with Arch for the cost of the flights back to their home country. 
Arch initially said the claim wasnt covered because Mr and Mrs Ks childs illness wasnt an 
acute medical condition which the policy provided cover for. Mr and Mrs K disputed this, 
and said theyd also needed to return to their home country due to war. Arch said Mr and 
Mrs Ks policy didnt cover claims arising from any war in Europe. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has 
been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision about Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs K were faced with a very difficult and stressful situation in February 
2022. I empathise with the circumstances they found themselves in, and I wish their child the 
best with their ongoing recovery. But I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think Arch acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
turning down their claim  regardless of the main reason why Mr and Mrs K returned to their 
home country. In making my decision, I havent addressed every point which Mr and Mrs K 
have made, and Im not obliged to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs Ks child was very sick in February 2022. Mr and Mrs K have 
told us their child was screaming in pain on their journey back to their home country. I 
understand an ambulance was waiting for Mr and Mrs Ks child on their arrival and an 
operation was carried out shortly after their return. I dont dispute that urgent medical 
attention was needed at that point  but this doesnt mean Arch is responsible for the costs 
which Mr and Mrs K are claiming for. In order for a claim for emergency repatriation to be 
covered under Section A1 (Emergency Medical and Repatriation Expenses) of Mr and Mrs 
Ks policy, the condition necessitating the repatriation must be acute as defined in their 
policy. 
The policy defines acute as a medical problem which first manifests itself with a sudden, 
distinct onset of marked intensity and is of such severity and nature as would lead the 
policyholder to seek immediate medical attention.
While the onset of Mr and Mrs Ks childs pain in February 2022 may have been sudden, I 
dont think the onset of the medical problem leading to the claim can fairly be described as 
sudden. The medical problem requiring surgery was first notified to Arch in September 2021. 
Ive considered the medical report which Mr and Mrs K have provided dated December 
2022. This describes Mr and Mrs Ks child as still suffering from abdominal pain with cause 
unknown. But I dont agree that this demonstrates that the onset of pain in February 2022 
was unrelated and/or separate and distinct to the medical problem first notified to Arch in 
September 2021. Im satisfied that the evidence which Ive seen suggests its more likely 
than not that the need for surgery in February 2022 arose from the medical problem which 
Arch were first told about in September 2021.  
Archs decision in 2021 that Mr and Mrs Ks claim wasnt covered at that point doesnt 
appear to be in dispute, but for the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think Mr and Mrs Ks 
childs medical problem met the policy definition of acute at that time. This was because the 
surgery recommended then was described as non-emergency and elective, so the problem 
didnt require immediate medical attention. When Arch declined the claim in 2021, Mr and 
Mrs Ks options were to arrange the surgery themselves  either abroad or in their home 
country. I understand there may have been various reasons why Mr and Mrs K didnt pursue 
either of these options and they couldnt have foreseen the situation they ultimately found 
themselves in. But I dont think Arch can fairly be held responsible for paying for any costs 
associated with a previously identified medical condition which subsequently deteriorated, 
when Arch had already said the surgery that was recommended wasnt covered under the 
policy. This isnt how travel insurance policies work. Ive also taken into account Mr and Mrs Ks comments about the lack of experience of the 
doctors abroad in carrying out surgery like this. But this doesnt change my decision that the 
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of Section A1 of Mr and Mrs Ks 
insurance policy.   
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks policy, under Section G (Political and Natural 
Disaster Evacuation), provide cover for evacuation expenses to a policyholders home 
country or nearest place of safety if certain listed, insured events which are set out in the 
policy happen. But I dont think the situation which Mr and Mrs K were in met any of these 
criteria. And, based on the specific circumstances of this individual complaint, I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct Arch to depart from a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions and accept Mr and Mrs Ks claim regardless.  
Arch, when declining Mr and Mrs Ks claim for political evacuation cover, relied on a policy 
exclusion stating that it isnt liable for losses arising directly or indirectly from war in Europe. I 
dont think its necessary for me to make a finding about whether I think this exclusion 
applies, because I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks claim arose from an insured event under 
Section G  so the claim isnt covered under their policy anyway. 
Mr and Mrs K have provided us with an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
which suggests that claims for war and terrorism in certain countries may be covered. But 
the IPID summarises the key features of a number of different types of travel insurance 
policies provided by Arch and the schedule of compensation issued to Mr and Mrs K 
alongside their policy certificate doesnt mention war and terrorism as being included in the 
cover provided to Mr and Mrs K. I also note that the table of benefits which Mr and Mrs K 
were provided with incorrectly says that war and terrorism cover is included in their policy. 
Arch hasnt, in my opinion, been able to adequately explain why Mr and Mrs K were provided 
with this incorrect information. But I dont think that any error or lack of clarity in the table of 
benefits changes the fact that Mr and Mrs K dont have cover for the situation they found 
themselves in under the contract they hold with Arch. 
Ive listened to a number of telephone calls between Mr and Mrs K and Arch. During one of 
these calls, Archs adviser told Mr K to go ahead and book their flights as the most important 
thing was Mr K getting his family to a place of safety. However, I think the adviser was very 
clear that there was no guarantee that the claim would be covered under the policy. Im 
satisfied that the information given to Mr and Mrs K by Arch was appropriate in the 
circumstances. And I think its likely, based on the information Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs K 
would have gone ahead and booked repatriation flights anyway, regardless of what Arch had 
said to them. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K, but I wont be directing Arch to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman