DRN-2670488
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company (LV). He isnt happy that 
it wouldnt deal with a claim and cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at the details of this complaint previously and provided my provisional decision in 
February 2021 as follows;
Mr P took out his motor insurance policy through LV. But when the named driver had an 
accident while driving abroad it looked into the claim but realised that Mr Ps car wasnt 
registered in the United Kingdom. So it cancelled his policy and declined his claim.
When Mr P complained to LV he said that it accepted he hadnt misled them. And LV 
accepts that Mr P didnt misrepresent his position in any way. So Mr P thought it should 
cover the costs of his claim or at least refund his premium.
LV went on to pay Mr P his premium back and reiterated that it wouldnt have insured him 
had it have known that his car wasnt registered in the UK. But Mr P said the car would have 
been registered in the UK as soon as he brought it back, as it had been before. He also said 
that he input the correct car details and answered all the questions correctly. Mr P said he 
took this policy out as it allowed him to be insured abroad for a period of time as long as the 
majority of the year the car was in the UK, which it was due to be. So he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
that LV hadnt done anything wrong. As Mr Ps car was registered abroad and LV wouldnt 
provide cover in these circumstances she didnt think it had acted unreasonably in turning 
down the claim and eventually cancelling the policy.
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why below. I 
must emphasise that this is my current position and is subject to change depending on the 
responses I receive.
LV has acknowledged that Mr P didnt mislead it in anyway when he took out his policy. He 
provided the correct details about his car. And it was his intention to bring the car back to his 
home in the UK which would be the risk address for the majority of the year which LV 
appears to accept. Although, it highlighted that it wouldnt cover Mr Ps claim or insure him 
as his car wasnt registered in the UK.
While I accept LVs position and what it has said I have to look at what happened and 
whether it is fair and reasonable. And Im not sure LV has acted reasonably in the particular 
circumstances of this case, Ill explain why.
LV wouldnt insure Mr P as his car was registered abroad and not the UK. But its systems 
and the comparison website that Mr P used allowed him to input his vehicle details and 
didnt ask him whether the car was registered in the UK. I would expect LV to check that a 
car is registered in the UK with its prospective customers as most insurers do, but it didnt. 
And it was Mr Ps intention to get his car re-registered in the UK once he brought it back a 
few months later which LV accepts.
But I dont think Mr P was fully aware that his car needed to be registered in the UK at the 
time he applied for insurance. He thought it was acceptable to have his car registered when 
he returned to the UK a few months later and for his car to be in the UK for the majority of 
the year. Indeed, Mr P says he took some advice about this from the equivalent of the 
Citizens Advice Bureau before taking out cover.
The only reference to this requirement is tucked away in LVs policy documentation which 
talks about the territorial limits of the policy. And mentions the fact that Mr Ps car needed to 
be registered in the UK in order to be driven abroad. So although Im satisfied that LV didnt 
want to insure people in Mr Ps circumstances I dont think its systems were robust enough 
to highlight this at the time of application.
I say this as Mr P simply input his details and asked for insurance for his car in the UK, 
which is where it was going to be used for the majority of the year, but he wasnt asked if the 
car was registered in the UK at the application stage. And LVs systems allowed Mr P to 
input his car details, which clearly werent from the UK, without questioning or prompting him 
about this.
As such I currently think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for LV to step in and cover Mr P as if he was insured. LV 
should pay for the damage caused to Mr Ps car and cover any costs he has incurred. It 
should add 8% simple interest for the time Mr P has been without payment and pay Mr P 
£150 for the stress and inconvenience he has faced. And it should deduct the cost of the 
policy Mr P took out from any money owed.
Replies
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr P said that he generally approved of the fresh review of the case. But he said LV 
shouldnt be able to deduct the policy premium from his award as hed had to go on and get 
insurance elsewhere and pay for a new policy. Ultimately he feels it would be unfair for him 
to have to pay twice.
Mr P also said that as this happened about two years ago and he now lived in the UK that all 
the paperwork was abroad and hard to find. So he thought LV should work off the quotation 
he had already sent. 
Although he said he had the receipt for the police fine which he paid. And he outlined that 
costs were incurred relating to taxis at the time of accident and petrol costs while using 
another car  ultimately he thought that £150 compensation wasnt sufficient and that he 
should be paid £730 including the costs of the police fine.While LV said it appreciated what I had said regarding the foreign number plates and the fact 
that its systems allowed the quote to go ahead. But it said again that had it have known the 
car was kept abroad at the time of application then it wouldnt have offered a quote. And the 
quote was only provided as Mr P used a UK address and postcode. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over the detail of this complaint in detail as Ive already considered all 
of the issues above. However, I will comment on both sides further representations.
Ive considered again the file in full. I understand LVs position and further representations. 
But as Ive outlined above, and LV has said it accepts, its systems allowed Mr P to insure his 
car with foreign number plates unchecked. So while I accept that LV didnt want to allow this 
its system did. And I accept that if Mr P put in a risk address abroad it wouldnt have offered 
cover. But LV accepts it was Mr Ps intention to return home a few months later and that the 
risk address, for most of the year would be his address in the UK. LV also accepts that Mr P 
was honest in answering its questions at all times and didnt misrepresent his position.
Turning to Mr Ps representations, I agree with Mr P that he should be paid all the costs he 
has incurred in relation to the claim subject to reasonable proof. So I would expect LV to pay 
his police fine and taxi costs and Ill leave Mr P to provide proof to LV of his costs. And Id 
expect LV to pay Mr P interest, in line with our usual approach, on these from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement. But I think the £150 compensation level Ive suggested 
covers all the additional costs and I dont propose to increase this.
Given all of this, I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for LV to step in and cover Mr P as if he was insured. LV 
should pay for the damage caused to Mr Ps car and cover any additional costs he has 
incurred. 
Ill leave this for LV to consider now and if it settles Mr Ps claim by writing off his car or by 
way of a cash settlement it should add 8% simple interest for the time Mr P has been without 
payment and pay Mr P £150 for the stress and inconvenience he has faced. And it should 
deduct the cost of the policy Mr P took out from any money owed. But I take Mr Ps point that 
he shouldnt be out of pocket here so if he can show that he went on to get insured 
elsewhere then I would expect LV to only charge him for time on cover, up to the date of the 
accident. 
 My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company to settle Mr Ps claim and any costs incurred. It should also add 
8% simple interest from the date of claim to any cash settlement and from the date of 
payment for any costs incurred, subject to reasonable proof, until the date of settlement. It 
can deduct the cost of the policy up until the date of claim and it should pay Mr P £150 
compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Colin KeeganOmbudsman