DRN-3540239
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made on her
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, a holiday was booked abroad for Mrs B, her husband and daughter.
They were due to depart the UK on 29 February 2020. Their return flight was booked for 25
March 2020 and they were due to arrive in the UK the following day.
In February 2020, Mrs B took out an annual premier multi-trip travel insurance policy,
underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 16 February 2020 to 14
February 2021.
In March 2020, whilst abroad in a country Ill refer to a N, Mrs B was unable to take her 
prebooked flight to another country, Ill refer to as A. Thats because A had introduced travel
restrictions and, as a result, anyone arriving in A was required to quarantine. If Mrs B
travelled to A and quarantined, she wouldnt have been able to take her return flight to the
UK.
So, Mrs B bought a new flight with another airline, with the intention of transiting via an
airport in A before continuing her journey back to the UK. That flight had been booked for 25
March 2020 but was subsequently cancelled due to travel restrictions introduced by the
government of N.
Mrs B then bought a ticket  for a flight departing N at the end of March 2020 - to fly back to
the UK via another country Ill refer to as C. That flight was due to depart from a different
city in N. As a result, Mrs B took an internal flight on 23 March 2020. However, the flight to C
was subsequently cancelled because of travel restrictions imposed for that area of C.
So, Mrs B ended up staying in N past the date shed initially intended and couldnt get a flight
home to the UK until 18 April 2020.
After returning to the UK, Mrs B made a claim on the policy for certain expenses including
the cost of the return flight back to the UK in April 2020 and other flights, which shed been
unable to recover from third parties together with accommodation costs, refreshments and
taxi fares.
URV declined the claim. It said the circumstances which led to the claim werent covered
under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if you have to cut your
trip short (the curtailment section of the policy). And nor did the circumstances amount to a
major incident under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if a major
incident occurs while you were away (the trip disruption section of the policy).
Unhappy, Mrs B complained to URV. URV maintained its position, so she referred her
complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that URV had fairly concluded that the claim wasnt covered
under the curtailment section of the policy. However, he didnt think URV had fairly declined
a claim under the trip disruption section of the policy. In his view the Covid-19 pandemic
amounted to a major incident as defined by the trip disruption section of the policy, because
it amounted to an act of nature.
Our investigator recommended URV to consider the claim under the trip disruption section of
the policy in light of the remaining policy terms and conditions. He also recommended URV
to add simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum if the claim was paid (from the date of the
claim to the date of settlement).
URV disagreed. In summary it said:
its unreasonable to interpret an act of nature to include Covid-19.
an act of nature is an event where the effects of which could not be prevented or 
avoided by the exercise of due care or foresight. And Covid-19 is an event that can 
be prevented, or measures can be taken to exercise care.
any act of nature is a known and defined event that are climate related.
This complaint was then passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 June 2022 explaining in more detail why I was 
intending to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Mrs B confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision. URV had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline an insurance claim.
Curtailment claim
Pages 38 and 39 of the policy terms and conditions set out the section on curtailment. It
says it will pay up to £5,000 for stipulated costs if:
You had to cut short your trip because the following happened after you left home:
- you, a travel companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died; your home was 
burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
- your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and
alternative accommodation was not provided;
- you, or a travel companion were quarantined, or called for jury service or required
as a witness in a court of law;
- you, or a travel companion were made redundant;
- you, or a travel companion, have leave withdrawn and is a member of the armed
forces (including reserves and territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of the government;- the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel
within a 30 mile radius of your trip destination.
Natural disaster is defined as:
volcanic eruption, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado or
wildfire
Mrs B ended up returning to the UK almost four weeks after shed originally intended to. So,
Im not persuaded that the trip was cut short.
Further, a national lockdown wasnt put into place in N until the night of 25 March 2020. As
thats the date on which Mrs B was due to depart N, I dont think its fair and reasonable to
conclude that her trip was effectively curtailed.
So, all in all, I dont think URV has unfairly and unreasonably declined cover under the
curtailment section of the policy.
Trip disruption claim
The policy also provides cover if Mrs Bs trip was disrupted due to a major incident.
Pages 26 and 27 of the policy terms and conditions set out the section if a major incident
happens when you are away. It says:
If your trip was disrupted due to a major incident.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to:
- £1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to enable you to return home,
or move to a safer area.
- £100 for each 24-hour period for up to a maximum of £700 for additional
accommodation.
- £30 for each 24-hour period for food up to a maximum of £210.
- £150 for the emergency replenishment of baby essentials or prescription
medication, if your existing supplies run out during the period that you are
delayed.
Deductible amount is £60 per person, per incident
Trip in this section is defined as: travel during the period of insurance.
Mrs B bought the policy in mid-February 2020. The trip was booked in the Autumn of 2019
and began on 29 February 2020. So, Im satisfied that travel took place during the period of
insurance.
Im satisfied that Mrs Bs trip was disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the crux of
the issue for me to determine is whether the Covid-19 pandemic can fairly and reasonably
be said to amount to a major incident.
Under the trip disruption section of the policy, major incident is defined as:
war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war bedeclared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions, volcanic eruption and other acts of
nature which first arise during your trip
But the phrase other acts of nature isnt defined under the policy. And in the absence of the
phrase being defined by the policy, Ive carefully considered whether URV has fairly and
reasonably concluded that this phrase doesnt include a virus pandemic. For the reasons Ive
set out below, I dont think it has.
The dictionary definition
Ive first taken into account the definition of nature in the Cambridge English Dictionary.
Although not definitive, I think its relevant that nature is defined as all the animals, plants,
rocks, etc. in the world and all the features, forces, and processes that happen or exist
independently of people, such as the weather, the sea, mountains, the production of young
animals or plants, and growth.
So, the dictionary definition doesnt expressly include a microscopic virus. However, I think
the definition  taken as a whole  is wide enough to include it. After all, a virus is organic
material that invades living cells and uses its chemical machinery to exist and to replicate
itself. As such, a virus could be viewed as part of the natural world. And given that the policy
doesnt define nature or other acts of nature, I dont think the policy contradicts the
dictionary definition of nature.
The legal position
Investors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and Others is
relevant caselaw which sets out several principles for the construction of contracts (the
principles). They include:
Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey 
to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would 
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at 
the time of the contract.
That background knowledge is subject to the requirement that it should have been 
reasonably available to the parties and that it is not part of previous negotiations 
between the parties. It includes anything which would have affected the way in which 
the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable person.
The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a 
reasonable person is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of 
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what 
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably 
have been understood to mean.
The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning reflects 
the commonsense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made 
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would 
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong 
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an 
intention which they plainly could not have had.
The policy was taken out in early 2020. Applying the principles to the policy, its possible that
the parties did have the global spread of a microscopic virus in mind when entering into the
contract of insurance. After all, Covid-19 had started spreading amongst the human
population at the time of entering into the contract.I also think a reasonable person with all knowledge of the background at the time of entering
the insurance contract could reasonably conclude that other acts of nature would
encompass all aspects of the natural world  including viruses. And different types of
coronaviruses have emerged over the years and have affected certain countries along with
other viruses such as the Zika virus and Ebola. Im persuaded this is something the parties
wouldve been aware of at the time of entering into the contract of insurance.
Although, not legal authority arising out of the courts of England and Wales, the US District
Court in the Southern District of New York in JN Contemporary Art LLC v Phillips
Auctioneers LCC (No. 20-CV-4370) held that [i]t cannot seriously be disputed that the
Covid-19 pandemic is a natural disaster for the purposes of a force majeure clause in an
auction agreement which expressly referred to natural disasters. I dont think thats
inconsistent with the spread of a microscopic virus falling within the definition of an act of
nature.
Ive also taken into account the rules of language applied by the courts which say that a
sweeping up phrase will be of the same type as the previous specific provisions set out in
the clause. Applying the rules of language to the policy definition of major incident could
lead to the conclusion that the sweeping up phrase of any other acts of nature at the end of
the definition includes only acts of nature along the lines of volcanic eruption and climactic
conditions, not microscopic viruses (such as Covid-19). However, the curtailment section of
the policy, separately defines natural disaster. And when defining major disruption in the trip
disruption section of the policy, URV couldve included the term other natural disasters but
didnt. The phrase other acts of nature was used. If it had instead referred to natural
disasters when defining major disruption, then this may have been clearer for the
policyholder to understand. So, in this case, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and
reasonable to equate other acts of nature with the term natural disaster  as defined by the
policy.
Having considered all of the above, and in the absence of being separately defined
elsewhere in the policy, I think the phrase other acts of nature has more than one meaning.
Im also satisfied that the policy terms and conditions amount to a consumer contract. So, I 
think The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is a relevant consideration
here.
Section 69(1) of the CRA says: If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice,
could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to
prevail.
The meaning most favourable to Mrs B would be that the phrase other acts of nature
includes microscopic viruses such as Covid-19.
Other relevant considerations
When deciding whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mrs Bs
complaint, Ive not only considered relevant law. Rule 3.6.4R of the Dispute Resolution
Rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook says, when considering whats
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I should take into account: the
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including that a firm must:- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2).
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
- pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers of financial
services in certain circumstances to do to ensure that customers are treated fairly. And this
Guide explains that firms should take account of what information the customer needs to
understand the product or service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in
a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also think its good industry practice for underwriters of travel insurance policies to clearly
set out the terms on which someone is insured, including what they are and arent covered
for. And they ought to provide clear definitions of any words or phrases which could be
ambiguous and have various different meanings. Ive explained above why I consider the
phrase other acts of nature to be ambiguous and, without the phrase being separately
defined, that it has different interpretations.
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair to conclude that URV hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by
declining Mrs Bs claim under the travel disruption section of the policy in the circumstances
of this case. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for the phrase other acts of nature to
include the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what URV has said about an act of nature being an event where the
effects of which could not be prevented or avoided by the exercise of due care or foresight.
But the other examples given of what constitutes a major disruption under the policy are
potentially capable of being avoided. So, as the phrase being hasnt been separately
defined, I dont think a reasonable person considering other acts of nature would
reasonably conclude that the policy only covers a major disruption which couldnt have been
avoided or prevented in some way. And Ive not been referred to any independent evidence
 medical or otherwise  which supports the idea that once transmission starts, a virus can
be prevented from spreading across the world.
The policy exclusions
The trip disruption section of the policy also goes on to list what isnt covered and that
includes if: you booked your trip,or travelled after the announcement of a major incident.
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Under the policy, travelled isnt separately defined but Im satisfied that it would be fair and
reasonable to interpret this as the date of travel from the UK. The travel disruption section of
the policy expressly provides cover for: up to £1,000 for reasonable additional travel
expenses to enable you to return home or move to a safer area. So, if travelled in the
context of the exclusion is interpreted more widely to include all travel  including travel back
to the UK after the announcement of a major incident - then a policyholder is unlikely to ever
be able to claim on the policy for a return flight home after a major incident is announced.
Even though there is separate cover for such a scenario under the policy.
Im also satisfied that the announcement of Covid-19 being a major incident first took place
on 11 March 2020. Although, there were reports of people contracting Covid-19 before
Mrs B travelled on 29 February 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare
Covid-19 as a pandemic until 11 March 2020.So, I dont think the exclusion is applicable to the circumstances of this complaint, as
Mrs B booked her trip - and her outbound flight departed the UK - before the WHO
announcement on 11 March 2020.
Putting things right
I direct URV to assess the claim on the basis that a major incident includes the
Covid-19 pandemic and is covered under the trip disruption section of the policy.
The claim is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not
limited to) the financial limits of this section of the policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman