DRN-3052078
The complaint
Mr A complains about excess mileage charges WeFlex LTD (WeFlex) charged in relation to 
his Hire Agreement. And late payment markers applied to his credit file. He would like the 
excess mileage charged waived. And the late payment markers removed from his credit file.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
I appreciate Mr A says he was told at the point of sale that as he intended to pay the 
balloon payment at the end of the agreement the mileage cap wouldnt apply. But I 
have no evidence of this. I have seen the contract Mr A signed which  makes it clear 
that WeFlex can charge for excess mileage at the end of each year of the hire 
agreement. So, I dont think that WeFlex did anything wrong to charge for excess 
miles incurred during 2017/2018. And so I dont think I can reasonably ask WeFlex to 
refund this payment.
I dont know why Mr A wasnt charged for excess mileage during the rest of the time 
of the agreement. I can only assume he didnt exceed the mileage cap or WeFlex 
took a business decision not to make a charge or WeFlex made a mistake. 
The invoice for the excess mileage was dated September 2019 but not paid until 
August 2020. As the contract states excess mileage charges must be paid on 
demand, I dont think it was unreasonable of WeFlex to show missed payments on 
Mr As credit file from November 2019 until the agreement was settled in August 202.
I have no evidence that WeFlex agreed not to show any missed payments on Mr As 
credit file until the excess mileage issue was resolved. Its important that credit files 
accurately reflect account history, So I dont think I can reasonably ask WeFlex to 
remove this information from Mr As credit file as Mr A would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
