DRN-3538218
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint concerns a monthly charge applied to her investment bond held with St. 
James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). She says it wasnt brought to her attention 
and is unfair and punitive as it will apply in perpetuity.  
What happened
Ms M was recommended to invest in an International Regular Investment Bond with SJP. It 
was intended that the bond would provide her with an income in retirement. Following the 
advice in 2017, she started the bond in early 2018, making regular monthly investments of 
£2,000. 
In 2021, following a review of her finances by another adviser, and with concerns about the 
transparency of SJPs charging, Ms M decided to stop making the monthly investments in 
the bond. At this point she became aware that a monthly £5 bond charge would be applied 
by SJP if the monthly investments were reduced to less than £1,000.
Ms M complained to SJP, but it didnt feel it had acted incorrectly. It noted that the suitability 
letter issued to her had drawn attention to the bonds Key Features and illustration 
documents, both of which explained the charge and the circumstances in which it would be 
applied. SJP therefore felt Ms M had been supplied with sufficient information and made 
reasonably aware of the bond charge. 
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as SJP. She explained that charges were applied in respect of managing the 
investment and she felt the bond charge had been brought to Ms Ms attention in a 
reasonable manner. The investigator said Ms M had effectively agreed to it when accepting 
SJPs recommendation.     
Ms M didnt accept the investigators view. She noted the investigators comments about the 
management fees but felt these were a separate matter to the bond charge. She maintained 
that the charge wasnt justified and that she would be paying it until death, reiterating that it 
hadnt been brought to her attention and was punitive. As the objective of the bond was to 
pay an income in retirement, when shed no longer be making the monthly investment 
payments, she considered it shouldve been expressly stated how the charge would impact 
the bond and for how long it would apply. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bond was recommended to Ms M with the objective of providing her with additional 
income in retirement. At the time of the advice she was aged 51 and the suitability letter 
indicated she anticipated retiring around age 60, but with the intention of using other monies 
to fund her retirement for the first few years. 
There was no suggestion she would reduce the level of regular investment made into the 
bond prior to that medium-term timeframe, so it appears that if the investment had continued 
as initially envisaged the bond charge wouldnt have been applied until Ms M retired and 
started to take an income. But once she did retire, the charge would then be applied until the 
monies in the bond were exhausted (or moved elsewhere), which could potentially be for an 
extended period. 
As such, I appreciate why Ms M feels the charge shouldve been explicitly explained, ideally 
in discussion with the adviser or at least in the personalised documentation provided to her. 
But details of the charge were set out in the documentation. It was explained in the terms 
and conditions of the bond. And, importantly, details were also given in the Key Features 
document and further, in the personalised illustration provided to Ms M. 
I accept there wouldve have been a large amount of paperwork associated with the advice, 
and also that the provision of written information doesnt absolve the adviser of a 
responsibility to ensure advice is fully understood. But that said, while I recognise the bond 
charge has now become a matter about which Ms M feels very strongly (particularly in the 
context of her wider concerns about SJPs service and the general transparency of its 
charges) Im not persuaded the charge was sufficiently onerous that it necessarily required 
an explicit explanation, in addition to the details set out in the documentation.  
The charge is relatively minor in comparison with the other costs associated with the bond 
(although I acknowledge it does increase in line with the Irish Consumer Price Index). So, it 
would be unlikely to have impacted the bonds performance to any great degree. I note what 
Ms M has said about it being punitive and its purpose being non-specific. 
But I dont think its unusual for this type of charge to be applied. Even with the regular 
monthly payments stopped, SJP would still be maintaining and administering the bond 
(issuing statements, etc) and, potentially, administering income payments. So, it would seem 
reasonable that some sort of charge might be applied.  
In summary, while I recognise Ms M will be disappointed, I dont find that SJP acted 
incorrectly or unfairly in respect of the charge. While its existence and potential impact on 
the bond could have been made clearer as part of the advice, I dont think the charge was a 
feature of such significance that the advisor should have done. I think it was reasonable to 
rely upon the written information, which I dont think was unclear or hidden away.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman