DRN-1657293
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim on her home insurance policy, after a section of her living room ceiling 
fell down. Admiral appointed a surveyor to investigate what had caused the damage.
The surveyor didnt think the damage was down to something the policy covered. They felt 
the damage was due to a past patch repair which had failed over time. So Admiral turned 
down Mrs Cs claim for the ceiling damage because it said the policy specifically excluded 
faulty workmanship and damage which happens gradually. It did agree to cover a claim she 
made for contents whichd been damaged in the collapse though, under the accidental 
damage section of the policy.
Mrs C was unhappy with Admirals decision about her ceiling claim. So she asked us to look 
into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
surveyors report. And he thought itd been reasonable for the surveyor to conclude that the 
damage had happened over time. So he felt it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on its 
policy terms to turn down Mrs Cs claim.
Mrs C disagreed. She said shed done nothing to cause the damage. She felt the policy 
exclusions should be highlighted at the outset. She didnt feel it was fair that Admiral could 
dodge its responsibilities. So she asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Admiral has 
treated Mrs C fairly. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we usually 
call an insured event.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers often investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. 
Admiral appointed a surveyor to look into whatd caused Mrs Cs ceiling to collapse.
The surveyor looked at the piece of Mrs Cs ceiling thatd fallen down and they considered 
the surrounding area of the ceiling. They checked whether the ceiling was wet, which 
mightve indicated a water leak. But this was ruled out. So the surveyor investigated whether 
the ceiling damage had been caused accidentally and whether it should fall within the scope of Mrs Cs accidental damage cover.
Its clear the ceiling didnt fall because of any fault on the part of Mrs C. I accept the ceiling 
collapsing mustve come as a shock to her. But the surveyors report didnt find that the 
ceiling repairs should be covered under the accidental damage section of the policy. The 
report said:
The surveyor could see that the board was subject to patch repair carried out previously. 
We noted that plasterboard was nailed over the lathsWe consider that the plasterboards 
should have been screw fixed. The surveyor concludes that the cause of damage is the 
natural failing of a historic patch repair.
It seems the surveyor carried out a detailed assessment and took photos of the damage. 
Ive placed significant weight on the surveyors report when deciding whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to turn down Mrs Cs claim. Thats because its the only expert 
evidence I have to show me the most likely cause of damage. 
Mrs C indicated to Admiral that she had an assessors report which contradicted its findings. 
But Admirals notes suggest this wasnt sent on for it to consider, despite it asking for a copy 
of it. And Mrs C didnt provide us with a copy of it, either when she first made the complaint. 
Or in response to our investigators assessment. So theres simply no independent expert 
evidence available to me to counter Admirals surveyors findings. On this basis, I think it 
was reasonable for Admiral to rely on it when making its decision about Mrs Cs ceiling 
claim.
Mrs Cs policy excludes claims caused due to faulty workmanship, or any loss or damage 
caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and tear. So it seems to me that 
the natural failure of a historic patch repair is likely to have happened gradually. This means 
I think it was fair for Admiral to decide her claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
I appreciate Mrs C feels these exclusions shouldve been highlighted at the outset. Ive 
thought about this. But most, if not all, home insurance policies exclude claims which are 
down to wear and tear, faulty workmanship or gradual causes. So even if I thought Admiral 
hadnt highlighted them sufficiently to Mrs C, I dont think shed have been able to find a 
policy elsewhere which did cover these things. 
All in all, while I appreciate how strongly Mrs C feels about her claim, I think it was fair for 
Admiral to rely on its surveyors report to decide the ceiling damage wasnt covered. Im 
pleased it agreed to settle her contents claim. Having considered everything, I dont think 
Admiral needs to do anything more.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman