DRN-4013754
The complaint
Mr H is represented by a solicitor in bringing his complaint. It says Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has unfairly refused Mr Hs critical illness claim.  
To resolve the complaint, Mr H wants his claim to paid correctly, any additional premiums to 
be returned, and for him to receive compensation for the stress he has been caused.  
What happened
Mr Hs policy began on 4 September 2009. It offers level life assurance and critical illness 
cover with a sum assured of £100,000 for a 26-year term, up to 4 September 2035.  
In March 2021, Mr H was sadly diagnosed with a type of prostate cancer. He made a claim 
to L&G two months later. 
In September 2021, L&G told Mr H that it couldnt pay his claim; it said that Mr Hs diagnosis 
didnt meet the specific criteria within his policy terms for the critical illness benefit of cancer 
 excluding less advanced cases. This required histological staging giving a Gleason score 
of greater than 6, or a clinical TNM Classification of Malignant Tumours staging of T2N0M0 
or greater. Mr Hs Gleason score was 6, and his clinical staging was T1CN0M0. Therefore, 
no claim could be paid. 
Mr H complained about the decision outcome and provided a written letter of appeal to L&G. 
He felt it appeared that L&G had chosen to rely on just the physical examination 
classification in determining his claim; it ignored the fact that his tumour was visible on a 
scan and was classified at T2aN0M0, as documented in his consultants letters. 
In November 2021, L&G refused the complaint. It did offer Mr H £300 because of the time it 
had taken to provide a substantive reply. It otherwise felt it had rightly refused his claim.  
L&G explained it had passed Mr Hs claim to a different medical officer for a further opinion. 
It had previously been reviewed by a chief medical officer (CMO) who was an oncology 
consultant, as well as a third-party medical expert. However, it was still felt that Mr Hs 
diagnosis did not meet the relevant TNM classification as required by the policy wording.  
A further three emails were sent to L&G by Mr H on 23 November, 26 November and 27 
November 2021. Mr H stated that clinical TNM classification considered all medical findings 
and was not a specific point in time - for example when the digital rectal examination (DRE) 
was undertaken. Despite this, L&G had come to the conclusion that his clinical TNM was 
T1c, relying on the DRE result only and ignoring the earlier T2aN0M0 staging from the scan. 
However, L&G said in a letter of 20 December 2021 that its decision was unchanged.  
Mr H therefore brought his complaint to this service where it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. She did not believe that it ought to succeed. She said she felt the policy 
wording was clear, as the definition contained an express condition for prostate cancers.  
She said Mr H hadnt met either of the two acceptable criteria for a claim to be paid. His 
Gleason score wasnt greater than 6. And, from the evidence provided, Mr Hs clinical 
staging was below the required threshold of at least T2N0M0 at the relevant times  noting 
that it was clinical staging and not radiological staging which was used by L&G to determine 
valid claims. In her view, L&G had fairly refused the claim based on Mr Hs policy wording.  
Mr Hs solicitor appealed against the investigators view. It provided extensive written 
submissions, which I am not going to repeat in full. However, I have read the submissions in 
their entirety. In summary, the letter set out that:
on 25 June 2021, the treating consultant, Mr F, gave a final histology for Mr H which 
said final histology: Gleason 3+3 = 6; T2;   
the same consultant also gave a staging on 22 April 2021 as MRI scan T2aN0;
Mr H submits that by doing so, the consultant confirmed that the tumour met the 
policy wording, that being histologically classified as having progressed to at least 
clinical TNM classification T2N0M0;
the wording solely requires histological classification when read properly as one 
clause;
the purpose of that is to confirm the definition of cancer, exclude certain cancers and 
in Mr Hs case exclude all prostate cancers except those histologically categorised as 
T2N0M0 or greater than 6 on the Gleason score;
the true understanding of the policy wording is that a tumour has to receive 
histological classification of a Gleason score greater than 6 or histological clinical 
classification of at least TNM classification T2;
the final histological assessment gave a clinical classification of T2 and that should 
have accordingly triggered a claim payment to be approved;
whether the cancer was classified differently using non-histological methods would 
have no effect on the policy;
alternatively, any T2 TNM classification whether determined by histology, DRE or 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should trigger a claim payment  as theyre all 
clinical assessments;
the dictionary definition of clinical confirms that it means involving or relating to the 
direct medical treatment of patients;
there are no policy terms and conditions which state all T2 TNM classified prostate 
cancers will not be insured;
it does not accept L&Gs view that Mr Hs clinical staging was T1c as this was the 
staging given prior to commencement of treatment;
that cannot follow when the policy wording only requires histological classification, 
and it does not require clinical TNM classification;
L&Gs interpretation is not consistent with what the policy terms set out;
a sensible interpretation of the policy wording supports Mr Hs claim;
the insurer cannot expect a policyholder to delay investigation of their cancer so it 
proceeds to a greater severity, merely in order to make a valid claim;
it accepts that later guidance (dated 2014 and 2019) from the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) within its Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover now 
uses a Gleason score of 7 and a TNM classification of T2bN0M0;
but the ABI also does not refer to clinical TNM assessments;
L&G must provide the minimum standards as required by the ABI;
it also notes that L&G now provides Low Grade Prostate Cancer cover as a listed 
critical illness for some policies;
that cover applies for people with a Gleason score of between 2 and 6 or a TNM 
classification between T1N0M0 and T2aN0M0;
L&G has not made it clear if this cover could apply to Mr H.  The solicitor then went on to set out the value of Mr Hs claim to date, including the claim 
payment, backdated premiums, interest, an inconvenience payment, and a refund of 
associated medical treatment Mr H has undergone due to stress. 
  
Though our investigator considered the solicitors comments carefully, she did not change 
her view. She said, in summary;
any guidance that came into effect after Mr Hs policy began did not apply;
the letter dated 25 June 2021 gave a Gleason score and TNM staging from after Mr 
H had undergone surgery  this was not the correct position by which to assess the 
claim;
though the letter of 22 April 2021 from Mr F was before Mr Hs surgery, this gave an 
MRI can TNM staging of T2AN0  with a Prostate Imaging-Reporting and Data 
System (PI-RADS) score of 3;
to confirm cancer is present, the PI-RADS score would have had to be 4 or above;
for the purposes of TNM staging, whether it be histological or clinical, and whether 
T1C or T2aN0M0, it was important and relevant to include the results from both the 
PI-RADS grading score as well as the Gleason score, to clarify the TNM staging;
in both cases Mr H didnt meet either of these criteria - his PI-RADS grading was 3, 
and not 4 or above, and his Gleason score was 3+3=6, which should be greater than 
6;
she accepts that clinical classification wasnt included specifically in Mr Hs policy 
wording as it related to prostate cancer, but neither was histological confirmation;
generally, there was no obligation on an insurer to update policies that are already in 
place with newer or more updated definitions and she wouldnt expect L&G to do so.
The solicitor said Mr H wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It also noted 
that:
it wanted clarification as to whether it had been accepted that the policy engages with 
TNM classification not TNM staging;
this was because though TNM staging was referred to in medical parlance, the policy 
used the definition of classification  that being the category in which something is 
placed;
if L&G wanted to provide cover that only engaged with TNM staging prior to 
treatment, it questions why it hadnt done so in the policy wording;
it remains that L&Gs interpretation of the word clinical ought to be brought into 
question;
the policy does not exclude cancers by reference to the PI-RADS grading;
Mr H is not seeking to claim on the basis of PI-RADS, so it questions the relevance of 
a TNM classification based on PI-RADS grading;
it supplied 2014 and 2019 ABI guidance because clinical has been removed from 
the wording, yet L&G still appears to rely on it;
this may indicate it provides less cover than the minimum expected standard from 
2014 onwards;
the earlier ABI statement from 2006 still requires an insurer to use clarity;
specific guidance says how an insurer must create a clear expectation of the scope 
and limitations of the cover, which is now brought into question by L&Gs actions.     
The investigator said that the reference to staging in her earlier view was her wording, not 
L&Gs. It had actually referred to classification on the same basis as the solicitor. 
The solicitor then made a number of further comments. It said:there had been confusion regarding TNM classification and TNM staging by L&G and 
it believes the same has misled the Financial Ombudsman Service;
in the required medical report, L&G asked Mr F what was the initial clinical TNM 
staging? to which Mr F answered Clinical T1cN0M0;
L&G used the response to the particular question as the basis of the repudiation of 
the claim despite there being TNM classifications that would trigger a valid claim;
in her response to the solicitor after her view, the investigator had conflated staging 
and classification;
so when she said that L&G had shown her evidence which confirmed clinical TNM 
staging is that which is given prior to any treatment beginning  that cannot apply, 
since the policy refers to classification, not staging;
in fact, the policy only requires histological confirmation of the TNM classification, 
which was T2;
though it is from 2019, the ABI guidance from that date gives a definition of Clinical 
TNM Classification which differs from L&G.  
Our investigator was still not minded to change her view. She clarified that L&G had 
explained how there were different staging systems used to determine clinical TNM 
classification; these different staging systems differ between the tests performed. And the 
emphasis on the results from these tests are then used to determine the clinical TNM 
classification. She remained satisfied that regardless of which of the two main staging 
systems were used to conclude the clinical TNM classification from the medical evidence 
provided by Mr F, neither of them would meet the definition.
She also did not think that the medical questionnaire sent to Mr F was confusing merely 
because it asked about initial clinical TNM staging. 
The solicitor made further submissions, noting:
it was for L&G to determine if it wanted to ask questions about staging, initial staging 
and whether that was clinical or pathological;
however, it was wrong to conclude that the answers to those questions have any 
bearing on the policy which engages with TNM classification or more correctly 
histologically determined clinical TNM classification;
it remains of the view that L&G has sought to conflate the answers to its questions 
regarding TNM staging with TNM classification;
L&G says all clinical findings are taken into account because of its confusion with 
clinical TNM staging; 
but in the case of prostate cancer, supervision of the condition over months/years is 
a viable treatment option;
this was offered to Mr H but he refused.
if the cancer progressed and was subsequently reclassified, it would be open for a 
business to decline the claim based on its interpretation of clinical for the initial 
staging no matter how far it had progressed since that time;
that is wholly unfair;
the 2014 and 2019 ABI statements provide a framework as to the uniformity sought 
by industry guidance and they are relevant
and it is highly relevant that though L&G has not done so, the ABI removed the word 
clinical from its guidance from 2014 onwards;
this leads it to conclude that L&G has been mis-selling its policies for the last eight or 
more years;the invitation to consider the ABI statements was not to suggest that different terms 
ought to apply but to suggest that the restrictive interpretation used by the business 
to defeat the claim was not consistent with ABI requirements. 
Our investigator shared all of the additional submissions from the solicitor with L&G, to which 
it made some final submissions. It said:
the TNM Classification of Malignant Tumours is a globally recognised standard for 
classifying the extent of spread of cancer as published by the Union for International 
Cancer Control (UICC) and has been the internationally accepted standard for 
cancer staging for more than 70 years;
the classification of cancer by anatomic disease extent, i.e. stage, is the major 
determinant of appropriate treatment and prognosis;
there is no difference between classification and staging in this context and this has 
been confirmed by the medical expert it consulted;
it doesnt understand why the solicitor is advancing the argument that there is a 
distinction;
the terms are interchangeable and have no impact on its view of the policy or the 
extent of Mr Hs cover;
the 2014 ABI standards arent relevant and do not apply in these circumstances;
the word clinical was removed from ABI guidance in 2018, not 2014  though this is 
irrelevant to Mr Hs case;
even if the guidance did apply, it would not amend policy wording retrospectively as 
to do so could disadvantage customers;
clinical refers to a method of determining the extent of cancer;
it does not refer to a specific diagnostic test;
rather, a clinical diagnosis is derived from a holistic approach to diagnostic factors, 
which may comprise blood tests, physical examinations, radiological results etc.;
for some tumours there is no histology, and for other incidences of cancer there is no 
single diagnostic factor - so a clinical approach is adopted which relies on a variety of 
diagnostic features;
the solicitor has imputed an interpretation on the policy such that clinical TNM 
classification means histological clinical TNM classification and this is incorrect;
the policy wording actually makes a distinction between the two  it relies on 
histological classification for the Gleason score or clinical TNM classification 
T2N0M0;
histological classification involves classification by looking under a microscope to 
view cancerous cells;
clinical classification is a holistic approach to classification, as described above;
when Mr H took out his policy in 2009, cover provided by L&G was much wider than 
cover afforded under comparable policies now;
nonetheless, the cover offered by L&G is comparable to what was available in the 
market generally at the relevant time;
the premium Mr H pays is for his specific critical illness policy, and it is his terms and 
conditions that it must assess a claim against.  
The solicitor again made detailed further written comments. As before, I will summarise 
these below but note I have reviewed them in their entirety. It now said:
its view (and that of Mr H) is that the policy engages solely with the word 
classification;
clinical TNM has a specific and relevant definition given by the ABI;the ABI definition of simply refers to the TNM numbering classifications, the 3 letters 
T, N and M followed by the numbering system 0-4;
it does not refer to staging or a clinical assessment prior to treatment or give the 
convoluted description that L&G has suggested;
even if it is now put forward that the ABI guidelines dont apply to L&G, guidelines are 
very important, particularly in the medical insurance sector;
in fact, in its critical illness guide, L&G refers to ABI standards and ABI+ cover;
this suggests its actions are misleading;
the conflation by L&G of staging and classification is difficult for a policyholder to 
understand and wholly avoidable;
it should use one of the terms and stick to it throughout;
L&Gs actions may lead to customers having less cover than an industry standard;
clinical was not defined in the policy, such as by use of a glossary term;
its meaning is therefore an ordinary word;
the solicitor has already pointed out its ordinary meaning and how it is used 
elsewhere in the policy;
any court would take the same interpretation against the insurer;
in the medical report to Mr F, L&Gs question placed significance on the initial 
staging but the policy makes reference to neither initial nor staging;
in fact, the wording allows for the cancer having progressed;
in Mr Hs case, there was later classification based on histology obtained after his 
surgery  and by that time his cancer was determined to be T2;
the nuanced interpretation of a clinical classification is patently unfair;
it disagrees that any cancers diagnosed by other means that histology would be 
covered;
it rejects the holistic approach put forward by L&G;
it takes the view that, in the context of the cancer definition, the words histologically 
classified as apply both to the Gleason score and the clinical TNM classification;
this must be the case, so that it is consistent with the rest of the insuring clause 
regarding cancer and the exclusion of certain conditions;
the claim was triggered by the confirmation of Mr F on 25 June 2021. 
The solicitor went on to define four headline issues that it felt were key to the complaint, 
including how the TNM classification is used, what the correct definition was, the impact of 
the ABI definitions and the basis of relying on histological confirmation.    
L&G said it had nothing else to add, and the complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. This complaint has a considerable volume of correspondence, which 
consequentially impacts the time taken to undertake a complete review of all the evidence.  
I know that this process has been upsetting for Mr H. I do not intend to make matters worse 
for him, but I wont be addressing every individual submission his solicitor has made within 
the extensive timeline of this complaint. 
We are not a court; and though there are rules I may rely on in respect of complaint handling 
procedures, I am not required to comment on each point or make specific determinations on 
every submission put forward by the parties. However, I can assure Mr H that I have reviewed all of the evidence on file. To that end, Ive 
included a detailed chronology of the complaint in the what happened section of this 
decision, which greatly exceeds the customary background summary usually contained in a 
final decision. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. whilst taking into 
account relevant laws, regulations and best practice. In reaching my decision, Ill focus on 
the issues I believe to be central to the complaint to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
Its also important for me to point out that we do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That 
means our decisions dont ordinarily interfere in how a business may conduct its operations 
or exercise what may be commercial judgment on the provision of a particular service. 
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions or procedures and not 
others in a critical illness policy isnt something we can look into or make awards 
about; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. So, I wont be considering the 
points the solicitor has made about L&Gs insurance products and marketing  those arent 
specific to Mr Hs complaint.  
There has been much discussion about the ABI. It is a trade body that offers information on 
best practice, transparency and high standards for insurers. It provides a framework for Mr 
Hs type of cover in guidance documents it issues every few years (going back to 1999), and 
these are known as Statement(s) of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover. 
The objective of these codes of practice is to help consumers understand and compare 
critical illness policies by having a common format for the way critical illness cover is 
described to potential buyers at the point of purchase. This is achieved through the use of 
model wordings and model exclusions, set out by the ABI for all insurers (who are members 
of the ABI) to follow. I should note here that though around 90% of insurers are members of 
the ABI, L&G ceased its membership at the end of 2014. 
If an insurer chooses to offer a policy of this type, it must include three core conditions of 
cancer, heart attack and stroke. Beyond this it can choose which illnesses or events to 
include; if it provides cover for any of the ABI conditions, it ought to adopt the model wording 
as a minimum standard. 
It is right to look at the statements closest to the time the policy began, as they are modified 
from time to time based on medical advancements and best practice. And L&G was a 
member of the ABI in 2009. The closest code to the start of Mr Hs policy is dated April 2006.
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I also need to assess the policy itself and decide if 
L&G has acted within the policy terms. It is those terms which form the contract of insurance. 
In respect of the critical illness of cancer, the policy wording says:
Cancer- excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of 
tissue. 
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. 
For the above definition, the following are not covered:All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following: 
opre-malignant;
onon-invasive;
ocancer in situ;
ohaving either borderline malignancy; or
ohaving low malignant potential.
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a 
Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical 
[my emphasis] TNM classification T2N0M0. 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having 
progressed to at least Binet Stage A.
Any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma that has been histologically 
classified as having caused invasion beyond the epidermis (outer layer of 
skin)
I have emphasised the relevant parts of the policy definition in bold. This wording included in 
Mr Hs policy is exactly the same as the model wording in the 2006 ABI code, which applied 
at the date this policy was taken out. So I I do not therefore believe it has acted unfairly 
in assessing Mr Hs claim against the policy wording above, particularly where this is 
commensurate to the ABIs minimum standards.   
I agree with L&G that there is no material difference between classification and staging for 
the purposes of the above definition and in the wider context of cancer diagnoses. The 
wording gives an example that comprises both terms regarding chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia, in being histologically classified as having processed to at least Binet stage A.  
I find the approach from the UICC referred to by L&G to be the most persuasive in terms of 
explaining the terminology. It says how the UICC TNM classification is the internationally 
accepted standard for cancer staging. So, when L&Gs medical professionals refer to 
staging, it can be read interchangeably with classification; I understand they are words with 
different dictionary definitions, but I believe they both have a similar interpretation in the 
context of the anatomical system for measuring cancer diagnoses.  
Further, though it is not binding on L&G or applicable to Mr Hs 2009 policy, the 2019 ABI 
code to which the solicitor refers gives a glossary definition of clinical TNM classification 
which it says is an internationally recognised standardised method of staging cancers. I 
agree that will hereafter refer to both staging and classification in relation to my findings. 
Neither party disputes that the first part of the policy wording in bold was met in full; there is 
histological evidence of malignancy and invasion of tissue  and Mr F confirmed as such in 
his report to L&G of July 2021. He was asked and answered (in bold) as follows:
Full details:
Cancer stage, if applicable. Include whether this is pathological or clinical staging. 
Please include copies of staging scan reports. 
Is the cancer malignant? Yes
Is the cancer invasive? Yes
What was the initial clinical TNM staging? 
Clinical T1cN0M0
Radiological T2aN0M0If MRI has been used for clinical staging, please give the date of the MRI scan and 
the PI-RADS score of 1-5. Please enclose a copy of the scan report detailing this.
Date of MRI scan06/02/2021
PI-RADS Score 3
What was the DRE result and date?
T1C 20/02/4021
What was the histologically classified Gleason score?
Gleason 3+3 = 6
I do not agree that the solicitors interpretation of the prostate cancer wording is correct. It 
does not read as though histological classification applies to both the Gleason score and the 
clinical classification. It is, read plainly, an either/or sentence where Mr H needs to be able 
to demonstrate one or the other (a specific Gleason score or evidence of disease 
progression to the defined level) in the instance of a valid claim. However, I do not believe 
that the medical information shows this part of the wording to be met, whichever way the 
policy wording is interpreted based on histological evidence.  
The Gleason score aspect of the wording has not been met. Mr Hs score was 6, not greater 
than 6.  
Turning to the TNM classification, I do not believe the arguments made by Mr H or his 
solicitor to be correct. The wording requires Mr Hs prostate cancer to present as having 
progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0. 
In essence, the solicitor says that because an earlier MRI classification/staging of T2aN0M0 
was given, that this cannot be superseded by the clinical staging of T1cN0M0. However, I 
disagree.  
L&G has explained how clinical TNM staging of a prostate tumour is given prior to any 
treatment beginning. It will take into account all clinical findings and investigations. So, this 
will include the DRE, the biopsy result needed to confirm cancer and the MRI result, which 
may or may not show the cancer. The clinical staging is the overriding staging and the PSA 
test along with Gleason score (which determines how aggressive the tumour cells are) will 
also be considered to reflect the overall extent and severity of the disease. Clinical staging is 
used to decide what treatment may or will be needed in the circumstances.  
I believe that the be the correct interpretation. All of the evidence I have seen (including that 
of the UICC and The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) shows how prostate 
cancer staging is split into two distinct parts  clinical staging and pathological staging. The 
latter relies on the results of the exams and tests done before the surgery in addition to what 
is learned about the cancer during surgery. It is for this reason that sometimes, the 
pathological stage differs from the clinical stage, because it gives more precise information. 
Mr F was asked about the clinical staging  and he gave two answers to it because they 
both fall within the same clinical assessment of Mr H before he underwent surgery. The 
radiological stage refers to the extent of abnormal tissue seen on an MRI, at any given time.
This has to be the case, as Mr H underwent an MRI scan first; this took place before he had 
the DRE and the transrectal ultrasound scan (TRUS) guided biopsy which provided the 
histological confirmation of his cancer. At the time of the MRI, Mr Hs cancer was classified 
as stage T2. The UICC refers to the relevant stages as:
T1 Clinically inapparent tumour that is not palpable
T1c Tumour identified by needle biopsy (e.g., because of elevated PSA)
T2 Tumour that is palpable and confined within prostate and 
T2a Tumour involves one half of one lobe or less
The AJCC accords with this, defining them as:
T1 Clinically inapparent tumor not palpable not visible by imaging
T1c Tumor (sic) identified by needle biopsy found in one or both sides, but 
not palpable
T2 Tumor is palpable and confined within prostate
T2a Tumor involves one-half of one side or less
However its guidance goes further and sets out that a tumor found in one or both lobes by 
needle biopsy, but not palpable or reliably visible by imaging, is classified as T1c.
Mr Hs policy definition does not stipulate whether the American or the International TNM 
staging system is applicable, so it is right to consider both  of which the International TNM 
is the more lenient. 
Mr Hs MRI scan confirmed a 3mm abnormality, which was too small to be palpable. For that 
reason, it was given a PI-RADS score of 3. PI-RADS estimates the risk that an area seen on 
the MRI scan may be a cancer or not. 
The score is from 1 to 5, as follows:
1. Its highly unlikely that the patient has prostate cancer
2. Its unlikely that the patient has prostate cancer
3. Its difficult to tell from the scan if a prostate cancer is present or not
4. Its likely that that the patient prostate cancer
5. Its very likely that that the patient prostate cancer. 
It is for that reason that Mr H underwent the DRE and latterly the TRUS biopsy. Though Mr 
Hs MRI outcome provided a radiological classification of T2aN0M0, that was merely 
because a mass had been located in 1/10 cores of his prostate (there are five each side). 
Without further diagnostic testing, it couldnt be said that stage T2 was met  and that stage 
is a precursor to stage T2a. What I mean by that is all stage T2 diagnoses are predicated by 
the overall T2 requirement of a palpable tumour  this can only be assessed by DRE.  
This is confirmed in the MRI report where it is set out how the PI-RADS rating of 3 applied 
but the position could be assessed at the time of TRUS by the consultant to obtain targeted 
sampling for formal characterisation. Mr F also confirmed the same in his letter of 29 March 
where he explained an MRI of 12 February 2021 showed a slightly enlarged prostate with a 
possible abnormality in the left lobe. 
The DRE confirmed a clinical staging of T1c, and the TRUS outcome was confirmed by Mr F 
in his same letter of 29 March 2021 as prostate biopsies on 17 March 2021 have confirmed 
low risk prostate cancer (Gleason 3+3 = 6, grade group 1) in 1 out of 10 cores.  
This was followed up by the letter of 22 April 2021 which confirmed your recent prostate cancer diagnosis as we discussed puts you in a very low risk organ confined prostate cancer 
category they tend to be slow growing and for this reason you have the treatment options 
of active surveillance, surgery or radiotherapy.  
I realise Mr H opted for surgery and was thereafter given a pathological staging/classification 
which was confirmed as the final histology: T2 NX, M negative. But the policy wording 
requires the clinical classification, not the pathological (or final) staging post-surgery. 
The consultant is clear that the clinical staging was T1cN0M0, and this was based on the 
DRE. That does not satisfy the policy wording. Nor does the previous earlier MRI 
assessment classification override that later, clinical staging. The wording is unequivocal in 
requiring the clinical staging. Further, the Gleason score was also below that of the stated 
severity to meet a valid claim for prostate cancer, according to the policy wording. 
That the ABI went on in 2014 to amend its wording to remove the requirement for clinical 
staging is not relevant here. The changes in that code were not binding on insurers until the 
end of December 2015, by which time L&G was not a member of the ABI. But even if I 
disregarded that and took the wording as accepted best practice, by December 2014 the 
definition did not cover tumours unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score of 
7 or above or having progressed to at least TNM classification T2bN0M0. Mr H would not 
have met that definition of severity even if the pathological classification was relied upon.  
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every instance of a conceivable 
critical illness a person may suffer from, because the cost would be inherently unaffordable 
for most policyholders taking out the insurance. What critical illness policies provide is 
insurance against being diagnosed with the most common instances of severe illnesses and 
the most commonly occurring serious events. 
In this case, Mr Hs policy sets out two specific classifications for prostate cancer of a 
specified seriousness; one of which must be met for a valid claim. Though I realise it is 
understandably upsetting for him, the medical evidence does not show that his diagnosis 
was of the required severity under either measure to meet that wording.  
What this service can determine is whether, in the circumstances, a business has been fair 
in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr H and his solicitor feel strongly about the 
matter. But in my view, refusal of a claim for a condition or event which doesnt meet all of 
the key requirements within a specific policy definition is a fair action for an insurer to take.
My final decision
I believe Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has dealt fairly with Mr Hs critical 
illness claim. So, despite my natural sympathy for his position, I cannot ask it to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman