DRN-4289088
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Nationwide Building Society closed his accounts without his 
permission.
What happened
Mr S held a Flex account and a Help to Buy ISA with Nationwide.
On 31 October 2022 Mr S visited a branch of Nationwide. He told the adviser hed wanted to 
close his Help to Buy ISA online. But it appeared his Flex account had been closed instead.
The adviser looked into what had happened. They told Mr S his Flex account had been 
closed through online banking on 27 October 2022, by transfer into his Help to Buy ISA. But 
because the allowance on the Help to Buy ISA had been reached for that month, the closing 
balance had been sent out by cheque. They said they couldnt reopen his Flex account, but 
theyd open a new one for him.
On 3 November 2022 Mr S visited the branch again to pay the cheque into his new Flex 
account. But when the adviser checked his accounts, they realised the new Flex account 
had also been closed. Mr S said he hadnt asked for the account to be closed.
The adviser contacted Nationwides IT department to see if something had gone wrong with 
Mr Ss accounts. The IT department replied to say theyd looked into things, and the 
requests to close the accounts had come from Mr Ss online banking, on his home computer.
Mr S complained to Nationwide. He said, in summary, that he hadnt requested for the 
accounts to be closed, so Nationwide had closed his accounts and transferred his funds 
without his permission.
Nationwide replied to Mr Ss complaint. They said that Mr Ss accounts had been closed 
online, and the IP address corresponded with his home address. They said that the funds 
were transferred to his savings account when his account was closed, in line with the closure 
request.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said, in summary, 
that Nationwide were acting on online banking instructions from Mr Ss IP address, so they 
hadnt made an error. Mr S didnt agree. He replied with a copy of the online banking activity 
log report hed received from Nationwide. He said that it didnt show the requests to close his 
accounts. And he reiterated that he hadnt given permissions for his funds to be transferred 
from his second Flex account to his Continue to Save account on 3 November 2022. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Mr Ss complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 July 2023. This is what I said.
Ive reviewed the report of the activity on Mr Ss online banking, which Nationwide has sent 
to us to help with the investigation. I can see that a close product request was made for Mr 
Ss Flex account at around 23:08 on 27 October 2022. And another close product request 
was made at 13:50 on 2 November 2022. This was for the Flex account that had been 
opened for Mr S following the closure of the first Flex account.
Ive also looked at the more detailed closure instructions received by the staff members who 
actioned the closures after the closure requests were made online. The first of these is an 
instruction to close Mr Ss Flex account and pay the balance to his Help to Buy ISA, which 
was completed on the morning of 28 October 2022.The second is an instruction to close Mr 
Ss new Flex account and pay the balance to his Continue to Save account, which was 
completed on the morning of 3 November 2022.
The requests appear to have been made from two different IP addresses, but both IP 
addresses were used regularly by Mr S to carry out other transactions and activities on his 
online banking, which he doesnt appear to be disputing carrying out. Ive also seen 
evidence to show these IP addresses correspond with the general location of Mr Ss home 
address.
Mr S has sent us a copy of the activity report he obtained from Nationwide. Hes pointed out 
the report doesnt show the request to close the Flex account on 2 November 2022. It does, 
however, show the request made on 27 October 2022.
Ive cross-referenced the copy of the report Mr S sent to us with the same report weve 
received directly from Nationwide, and I can see that around 19 items of activity which are 
shown on Nationwides copy of the report for 2 November 2022 leading up to the close 
product request arent showing on Mr Ss version, including the close product request. So, 
it seems the report Mr S sent to us doesnt correctly show all the activity that happened on 
that date.
Mr S may want to speak to Nationwide about this, if this information wasnt included in the 
report he received before he sent it on to us. But, because this report doesnt show all the 
activities we know occurred on that date, I dont think the copy of the report Mr S has sent to 
us is enough to demonstrate that the request to close the Flex account on 2 November 2022 
wasnt made.
Overall, having reviewed everything Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that the requests to close 
both accounts and transfer the balances to other accounts in Mr Ss name were made 
through Mr Ss online banking account from IP addresses he used regularly. I do appreciate 
Mr S says he didnt intend to carry out these instructions, but, on balance, I think it's most 
likely Mr S did instruct the Flex accounts to be closed  albeit by mistake. And I dont think 
Nationwide made a mistake when they acted on the instructions they received.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I dont think Nationwide have treated him unfairly here. So, 
my provisional decision is that Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
I asked Mr S and Nationwide to reply to my provisional decision with anything they wished to 
add.
Nationwide replied to say they accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S replied with a number of further points. He also asked for a copy of the online activity 
report Nationwide had sent to us, and sent a further response after hed seen it. Ive 
summarised what I consider to be the main points of his responses below. I may not 
specifically address every point hes raised, but this reflects the informal nature of our 
service.Mr S said:
- It wasnt true that he asked for the account to be closed on 2 November 2022;
- The branch closed his account intentionally;
- The banking software expert could interfere with his account;
- He asked why he would close the account when hed just opened it following the first 
account being closed;
- He was disadvantaged by losing his overdraft facility when the account was closed; 
and
- He has been caused distress by what happened, and he spent time trying to resolve 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, Im not going to change my 
provisional decision that Nationwide dont need to do anything else here.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the online activity report, and I want to be clear 
that I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that Nationwide have interfered with his account 
or with the report they sent to us. I think Mr Ss copy of the report is incomplete as it has a 
number of entries missing  not just the one in dispute. I still think the instruction to close the 
account on 2 November 2022 was made by Mr S. 
I appreciate what Mr S has said about why hed make an online instruction for the new 
account to be closed so soon after opening it, following the closure of the first account. And I 
accept he may not have intended to make either instruction. But as Ive said in my 
provisional decision, I do think he made the instructions  albeit by mistake. 
Overall, Im satisfied the instructions to close the accounts were made online by Mr S and 
Nationwide were correct to act on them. So I dont think Nationwide are responsible for the 
loss of his overdraft facility, the distress caused by the accounts being closed, or the time he 
spent resolving things. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman