DRN-2946830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the time it took for Standard Life Client Management Limited, 
trading as 1825 Financial Planning (SLCM) to advise on and arrange a withdrawal from 
their investments. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were planning the withdrawal from their investments to help their son buy a 
house. At a meeting on 8 January 2020, Mr and Mrs B discussed their plans with an adviser 
from SLCM. A report was to be written after the meeting, to advise Mr and Mrs B on the best 
way to make their withdrawal. 
Mr B says he recalls the adviser telling him that the report would be ready six weeks after 
the meeting  when he was due to return from a holiday. But while the dates of Mr and 
Mrs Bs holiday were noted by the adviser at the time, theres no record of them giving a set 
timescale for writing the report. 
SLCM have told our investigation that their usual service level is to write their reports within 
eight weeks of a meeting. 
On 20 February, Mr B contacted SLCM. He found out that the report wasnt ready yet, and 
that the adviser was away on sick leave. In their later response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, 
SLCM accepted that they should have handled the advisers absence better.
SLCM took steps that meant the report was with Mr and Mrs B by 25 February. Mr and 
Mrs B responded, confirming they wanted the withdrawal to go ahead. But then there was a 
sharp fall in the value of the investment  caused at least in part by the emerging 
Coronavirus pandemic. Mr B told SLCM to cancel the withdrawal, which they did. He and 
Mrs B then took out a mortgage to raise the funds for their sons house purchase. 
Mr and Mrs B blame SLCM for the need to change their plans. Their view is that if the report 
had been sent to them after six weeks, theyd have been able to make the withdrawal before 
the value of the investment dropped. SLCM didnt agree they were responsible for that. They 
feel the report was produced in a reasonable amount of time.
The complaint came to us. Our investigator felt SLCM had provided the report in a 
reasonable amount of time. And he felt a payment of £250 that SLCM had offered was right 
to acknowledge the upset and inconvenience caused by the lack of cover for the sick 
member of staff. So he said SLCM didnt need to do any more to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with that view. They repeated that they felt the withdrawal would 
have happened after six weeks if their adviser hadnt been off sick, or if SLCM had taken 
suitable steps to cover the advisers absence. 
Unresolved, the complaint has come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can see Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that SLCM have let them down here, I find the 
steps already taken have done enough to resolve the complaint in this case. Ill explain why.
The key seems to be Mr and Mrs Bs expectation that the advice letter and withdrawal would 
be ready to proceed six weeks after the January meeting. Theres a discrepancy between 
that, and the eight weeks SLCM have told us is their standard time to write up their advice.
Ive had our investigator specifically ask SLCM for any record they have of what the adviser 
said during the meeting about timescales for the report. There arent any records from the 
time, it seems. But the advisor has indicated they wouldnt have said the report would be 
ready in six weeks, when the standard time is eight. 
But something the adviser said gave Mr and Mrs B the expectation of six weeks. I can see 
that in the fact Mr B called SLCM at the six-week mark. And because he seems to have 
been genuinely disappointed things werent ready at that point. 
If the service had been reasonable, Mr and Mrs B would have been aware after their 
January meeting that the report would take eight weeks to write. Thats what SLCM have 
said their service level is, so Mr and Mrs B should have been made aware of that. As Mr and 
Mrs B had a different expectation, I conclude the service has been unreasonable here. 
With that said, the report was written in seven weeks. Thats sooner than the eight weeks it 
would have been, if SLCM had kept to their standard service level. 
It doesnt appear that theres been a delay because of the advisers absence. Ive seen a 
note the advisor wrote on 14 January 2020 to the team that wrote the advice letter. That 
shows me the advisor had started the report being written before their absence. Once theyd 
done that, I cant see the advisors absence caused any delay for the team writing the report.
With that said, SLCM should have been keeping their customers informed about the 
advisers absence. An email Mr B sent on 10 February should have been followed up by 
SLCM. And some of the confusion from 20 February onwards could have been avoided with 
better oversight of the situation. 
So  while I find there has been a failing in SLCMs service here  I dont think its delayed 
the report being written. Its instead caused frustration and disappointment for Mr and Mrs B, 
who believed things were going to happen quicker than they did. 
It follows that SLCM dont need to compensate Mr and Mrs B for any delay, or their decision 
not to proceed with the withdrawal because of the sharp change in their investments value. 
Instead, SLCM need to recognise the emotional impact their poor service has had on Mr and 
Mrs B.
I can see they offered compensation of £250 to Mr and Mrs B. I find that reflects the 
frustration and disappointment for Mr and Mrs B. And importantly, it stops short of trying to 
address the inconvenience and upset at having to change their plans. 
That part of the complaint comes from the investments value dropping, within the eight 
weeks that SLCM should have made clear it would take to produce the report. SLCM arent 
responsible for the value of the investment dropping in that time. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Standard Life Client Management 
Limited trading as 1825 Financial Planning. But the compensation theyve already paid of 
£250 is suitable to put things right. So they dont need to do anything else to resolve the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman