DRN-3744882
The complaint
Mrs T complains that a fixed sum loan with a deferral period, which she had taken with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, wasnt clear that interest would be backdated to the start of 
the agreement at the end of that deferral period if no payment was made. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mrs T entered into a fixed sum loan with Mitsubishi. The loan was for the supply 
and fitting of furniture which cost £8,099. Its duration was 132 months with 12 months 
deferred period and thereafter 120 monthly payments of £174.13. Interest was charged at 
19.9% APR and the total charge for credit over the 132 months was £12,796.60 making a 
total payable amount of £20,995. The agreement stated that the interest charges had been 
calculated in advance from the amount of credit and applied on the date of the agreement.
The agreement also set out that if by the Deferred First Payment Date you have paid us the 
Amount of Credit in full, you will not have to pay any interest.
Mrs T electronically signed the agreement to show she agreed to be bound by its terms and 
conditions. The agreement was activated in December 2020 and the 12-month deferral 
period was due to expire in December 2021. Mitsubishi sent Mrs T a welcome letter which 
said that an online account had been set up for her which she would need to login to and 
through which she could manage her account.
Mrs T says it was always her intention to settle the loan in full before the deferral period 
ended.
In October 2021 Mitsubishi emailed Mrs T a settlement reminder followed by a text to her 
mobile phone a few days later to check her inbox for an important message about her 
account. The settlement notice set out the three options open to Mrs T in respect of her loan. 
It said she could either pay the full amount for the fitted furniture before the deferral date and 
then wouldnt be charged interest; she could partially pay the amount outstanding and 
thereby reduce both the amount of interest shed pay and the term of the loan or pay the 
monthly instalments. At the bottom of the letter it said Interest is charged from the start of 
your agreement at the rate of 19.9%, so by choosing to pay monthly, this will include interest 
which is 'backdated' to X December 2020. Remember you can make additional payments or 
settle your remaining balance at any time.
Mrs T says she wasnt aware of the emails from Mitsubishi because they went straight to her 
spam folder. She also says that she was triggered to search for contact from Mitsubishi 
when a payment was taken in January 2022. She says on finding the emails she set up her 
account with Mitsubishi as directed and discovered that to settle the loan she would now 
need to pay around £1,800 interest as the deferred period had ended and the interest had 
been backdated to the date the loan had started.
In January 2022 Mrs T emailed Mitsubishi and said it had been her intention to clear the loan 
before the end of the deferral period, but she hadnt received the emails. She asked if she 
could pay the loan amount as it would have stood in December 2021.
Mitsubishi responded by sending Mrs T a settlement amount for the loan which amounted to 
£9,899.75 and said that it wasnt able to look at settling this account interest free as the 
deferral period had ended in December 2021. It also said it had been Mrs Ts responsibility 
to ensure the agreement was settled before the interest free period was up. 
Mrs T complained to Mitsubishi and offered to clear the loan amount together with one 
months interest. Mitsubishi didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It said the welcome letter that 
had been sent to Mrs T clearly showed the end of the deferral period and she had also been 
sent a reminder around six weeks before that end date. As Mrs T had missed the end of the 
interest free period then interest would be added and charged as per the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
Mrs T was unhappy about Mitsubishis response and complained to this service. She said 
she wouldnt have taken out the loan if shed known the impact of settling the agreement 
late. Mrs T said the terms and conditions of the agreement hadnt been explained to her and 
a 20% interest charge was unfair.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She said she 
thought the agreement had been clear that the interest would be applied from the date of the 
agreement if not paid in full by the end of the referral period. And this had also been set out 
in the settlement reminder letter. Our investigator said that although the reminder letter had 
been sent to her spam folder that wasnt the fault of Mitsubishi and she didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.
Mrs T disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she didnt think the terms and 
conditions of the agreement had been clear enough and it hadnt specified that the interest 
would be backdated.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Ive looked at the pre-contract information, the terms and conditions 
of the fixed sum loan and the emails sent by Mitsubishi to Mrs T.
Ive seen that Mrs T electronically signed the fixed sum loan agreement and so Im satisfied 
that she received a copy of it. Im aware that the emails sent by Mitsubishi didnt go into Mrs 
Ts inbox, but I cant fairly say that is due to anything done by Mitsubishi. It sent this 
information to Mrs T. Ive also seen it sent a text to Mrs T in November 2021 requesting that 
she check her emails for important information about her account. I think it would be 
reasonable to say that after receiving that contact Mrs T should have looked for emails from 
Mitsubishi before January 2022. 
Looking at the agreement and the precontract information, they both set out clearly that the 
applicable interest rate was 19.9% APR. The agreement also sets out the total credit charge 
as £12,796.60. I think its fair to say Mrs T would have been aware of the interest rate that 
was being applied to the agreement.
On the first page of the agreement there is a box headed Interest Charges which sets out 
the rate and also says this rate has been calculated in advance and applied on the date of agreement. So, I think this is clear that the interest isnt added from the end of the deferral 
period, but from the start of the agreement
Looking at the Repayments box, which is set out under the interest charges box on the 
agreement, this says that if by the first deferred payment date the amount of credit has been 
fully paid then no interest will have to be paid. I think this is clear that it is only if the 
settlement of the agreement is made during the deferral period then no interest will be 
charged. However, if no payment is made to clear the outstanding balance then interest is 
charged from the start of the agreement.
The reminder letter sent by Mitsubishi six weeks before the deferral period was due to end is 
also very clear about how interest will be charged.
So, although this will be of disappointment to Mrs T, Im not upholding her complaint as I 
dont think Mitsubishi has acted unfairly. The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the rate of 
interest and that it will be applied from the start of the agreement. Its clear that interest will 
only not be charged if the agreement is settled before the end of the deferral period. It wasnt 
Mitsubishis fault that Mrs T unfortunately missed the date by which the settlement of the 
agreement wouldnt attract interest.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman