DRN-2845263
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) declined an application to 
transfer his mortgage to a new property. This meant that an early repayment charge (ERC) 
had to be paid which he feels is unfair.
What happened
Mr P took out a mortgage with Halifax in December 2016. He borrowed £202,367 on a 
capital repayment basis. He applied for a fixed rate product on a 2.59% interest rate on 
11 March 2019 which would end on 31 July 2021.
Mr P told us that his intention when he purchased the property was to carry out some work 
on it to increase its value, then re-mortgage it to release funds and finally sell it. Mr P said 
the cost of running the property was too high and he fell into financial hardship. Because of 
this, he decided to sell his home, downsize and pay off debts that had mounted up. 
Around June 2019, Mr P applied to port his mortgage (transfer the interest rate to a new 
property) and he applied again in August 2020, but Halifax declined both applications. Mr P 
said he wanted to buy a property and move to another area as he was offered a new job with 
a higher salary, which would amount to around £10,000 pay increase which he said would 
have significantly improved his financial position. But he said he couldnt take the job 
because Halifax declined his application, so he couldnt move. He also said his current 
income had been impacted by Covid-19 as he was unable to work any overtime, so he 
applied for a payment holiday with Halifax  which was accepted for six months from March 
 September 2020.
Mr P has said this situation has left him and his wife in a very difficult position. He said he 
had to approach sub-prime lenders which were more expensive. He said after the second 
refusal, he was forced to sell his family home.  He said he has since sold his property for 
£286,000 which is less than what it is worth  he said he could have sold it for £315,000. He 
said he took a lower offer in order to clear his debt and he also had to pay Halifax an ERC. 
Mr P complained to Halifax in July 2020, after his first application was declined. Halifax 
issued their final response on the matter and didnt think they acted unfairly so they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr P was unhappy with what Halifax had said so he brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that Halifax 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr P disagreed with what our investigator had said. He made the following comments:
He would have been getting a £10,000 pay increase which we didnt mention
He doesnt believe that he has county court judgments (CCJs) on his credit file
They would have sold their house for more money, but they had to pull out because 
Halifax declined their application
As Mr P disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P believes that Halifax have acted unfairly because not only did they decline his 
application to port his mortgage, they also charged him an ERC at a time when things are 
already very difficult for him.
Porting of the mortgage
When a mortgage borrower wants to move to a new house, they can in some circumstances 
port their mortgage. This means they are looking to move property and take their mortgage 
with them, or more specifically, take the interest rate with them. This means that any ERC 
which may be payable if the mortgage was redeemed, doesnt apply.
In this situation, we would expect to see that a lender has acted in line with their terms and 
applied them fairly. If we are satisfied that the lender has acted in line with their terms, then 
we need to consider whether their decision has resulted in a fair outcome for the customer, 
taking into account relevant rules and regulations that apply as well as their own criteria.
Mr P said he was looking to borrow £187,000 which was the same amount he already had 
Halifax, against a purchase price of £325,000 and he said he was hoping to reduce this price 
to around £300,000. Mr P has since sold his property for £286,000.
Halifax declined the porting application because they said it wasnt affordable to Mr P. They 
were aware that Mr P wasnt looking to borrow any additional funds, but they said it still 
wasnt affordable and the application was also declined on credit score.
The rules around affordability and mortgage lending were tightened up significantly in 2014. 
This was a response to the financial crisis, to make sure that in future mortgages were only 
given where there was strong evidence it was affordable.
The rules introduced at the time included the one that said an affordability assessment must 
be carried out where theres a change to an existing mortgage which is material to 
affordability  such as a change in the amount borrowed. 
Mr P wasnt borrowing more money or making a material a change to the mortgage contract 
that was likely to be material to the affordability of the mortgage. So, Halifax could have set 
aside the affordability assessment  but they carried one out instead. I think in these 
circumstances it was fair for them to carry one out and then rely on it. The reason I say this 
is because of Mr Ps wider financial circumstances and debt he owed at the time and 
because it wasnt in his best interests to do so. Halifax also declined the application on the 
grounds of his credit situation which is a separate criterion, although related.
Halifax said they had considered Mr Ps financial circumstances at the time he made the 
application and noted that he had a debt of around £59,000 which he didnt have when he 
took the original mortgage out. They also said there were unsatisfied defaults on Mr Ps 
credit file and his mortgage also fell into arrears. There were a number of missed payments 
on the mortgage which I have also seen from the transaction history that Halifax have 
provided us. The application form for the porting of the mortgage which Halifax have 
provided to us, shows that Mr P answered yes to arrears in the last six years and yes to 
CCJs in the last six years too. So, I dont think its in dispute that the mortgage account had 
fallen into arrears and that in fact there are unsettled defaults on Mr Ps credit file. 
Ive considered whether Halifaxs actions are fair and reasonable based on what I have 
seen.
I appreciate why Mr P feels hes been left in a difficult position. He wanted to move to a 
different property because the one he had was costing too much to maintain. He said he was 
offered a job and felt this was a good opportunity to move.Mr P wanted to purchase a property which was more expensive than the one he owned but 
he wasnt applying for any additional borrowing. This meant that Mr P would have had a 
shortfall when he sold his property, in order to buy the new one  he sold his property for 
£286,000. He wanted to transfer the mortgage over to the new property but there would 
have still been a shortfall  even after he sold it. It wasnt clear where Mr P was going to get 
the additional funds from to cover the shortfall and because he was already struggling, it 
wouldnt have been responsible for Halifax to agree to the application.
He had a significant amount of debt at the time and was already finding things difficult to 
manage. This coupled with the fact that he had some arrears on his mortgage and 
unsatisfied defaults on his credit file makes me agree that Halifax made the right decision.
I understand that Mr P said he was hoping to reduce the purchase price to around £300,000 
for the property he wanted to buy but there is no guarantee that it would have happened. 
This could have put Mr P in a worse position than he was already in. And there was also no 
guarantee that he would have sold his own property for £315,000. Mr P said that unless they 
purchased the new property and sold his property for the amounts they hoped for, they 
wouldnt have been able to cover the shortfall to purchase the new property.
With regards to the job that Mr P applied for, the application notes I have seen show that at 
that time, the job that Mr P had found had not been confirmed and there was a further 
interview to take place. So, the income details which were entered were those for the 
employer that Mr P already worked for. I dont think its unfair that Halifax assessed Mr P on 
his employment at the time.
We asked Mr P if he could provide any evidence to show that the job had been offered at 
that time or any other documents he had, but as it was two years ago, he wasnt able to 
provide anything. This makes it very difficult to be able to take into account the increase in 
Mr Ps salary that he was hoping to get.
Based on what I have seen, I cant say that Halifax have acted unreasonably. We would 
expect them to lend responsibly and I think they have done that. There is no compelling 
evidence that suggests that Mr P would have been in a better position if he had transferred 
the mortgage to the new property. He wouldnt have been able to afford to purchase it and I 
havent seen anything that suggests where that money would be coming from. He was still in 
a debt management plan so if there were funds available, I would have thought that he 
would have paid some towards his debt  which was his reason for wanting to sell in the first 
place. I cannot see that approving the mortgage application would have been in Mr Ps best 
interests therefore Im satisfied that Halifax treated Mr P fairly in this situation.
Early repayment charge
Mr P has been charged an ERC because he redeemed his mortgage after being told that he 
was unable to port the mortgage.
Mr P took out a fixed rate on 11 March 2019 which was due to end on 31 July 2021. An ERC 
would be payable if Mr P decided to pay off his mortgage early, during that period.
Halifax said that no error was made in applying the ERC and in this situation, they would be 
unable to agree to a refund.
I have looked at the mortgage offer that Mr P was given when he agreed to the product 
transfer. Section 7 is laid out in a clear way which illustrates when an ERC would be payable 
and what percentage would be payable, should the mortgage be paid off early and within the 
fixed rate period.
It states that 3% of the amount repaid would be charged on or before 31 July 2020 or 2% of 
the amount repaid would be charged on or before 31 July 2021. It shows that the most that 
would be charged was £5,703.15.I appreciate that this will be upsetting and frustrating for Mr P. He wanted to port his 
mortgage, and this got declined. And because he felt he had to sell his property to pay off 
debts, he has then been charged an ERC. Porting isnt generally guaranteed, and it is 
subject to a lenders criteria. The mortgage offer at the time of the product switch shows 
what additional features are offered under section 8. The offer confirms that when taking 
your product rate to a new mortgage (which was one of the features), new loan applications 
are assessed in line with Halifaxs lending policy at the time.
I understand how difficult this must have been, but I do have to think about what is fair and 
reasonable and whether Halifax actually did anything wrong. While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr P, I cant say that they have. Mr P was aware of the ERC that could be charged when he 
entered into the fixed rate agreement and even though his circumstances changed, this 
wasnt because of anything that Halifax had done. I therefore wont be asking Halifax to 
refund the ERC payment to Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman