DRN-3454178
The complaint
Mr B complains about the time it took for ITI Capital Limited to transfer his stock to another 
provider. He complains about the fact that during the time his account was migrated over 
from a previous firm, he was unable to trade or get hold of anyone at ITI. He also had some 
shares that he would like in certificated form and ITI havent responded to his new broker or 
provided any information about how he can obtain the certificate.  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Bs share account which he held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration was transferred over to ITI. Shortly after receiving confirmation that his 
account had been migrated over, Mr B requested that his account with ITI be closed. It took 
some time for this to be actioned, and Mr B was unable to get through to ITI on the phone. 
However, it wasnt until 25 August 2020 that Mr Bs new broker, S, requested his stock from 
ITI. During this time Mr B chased via email and telephone but did not receive any replies 
until 21 September  at which point he was incorrectly told his stock had been transferred in 
August 2020, but that hadnt happened. 
Mr Bs stock transfer completed on 22 September 2020 but he required shares that he held 
in a delisted company to be sent to him in certificated form. Despite requesting information 
from ITI about this, he has not received any guidance or help from it about who to request 
the certificate from. Mr B complained to ITI. It issued a final response letter which awarded 
him £75 compensation and apologised for the service issues he had experienced. Mr B was 
unhappy with the compensation offered and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In short, he considered that £75 was fair 
and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience he was caused. He didnt think ITI 
needed to do anymore. He also thought that he would need to contact the registrar of the 
delisted company he held shares in to obtain them in certificated form. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that it this service was allowing ITI to treat its customers with 
contempt, and this service was supposed to be protecting customers from appalling service 
such as what he experienced. Mr B didnt agree that the award of £75 was fair and 
reasonable, and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
I asked the investigator to write to both parties increasing the award by £75, to £150. I 
considered that the original award didnt take into account:
The fact that Mr B was unable to trade for a period of time  although I considered 
there was insufficient evidence to award financial loss. 
That much of his contact with ITI went unanswered. 
That ITI shouldve been more helpful in helping Mr B obtain the certificate of the 
shares he held in a delisted company. 
ITI agreed to increase the award, but Mr B did not agree it was enough. He said he had told 
the investigator what trades he wouldve placed but was unable to due solely to ITI Capitals 
inability to deal with my request in a timely manner. He said he also spent 20 to 30 hours of 
his time either waiting on the phone or emailing ITI, and it was therefore extremely 
disrespectful that I valued his time at around £6 per hour. He said £150 was completely 
unacceptable and it appeared the service was protecting ITI and not its customers who had 
been severely let down. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by making clear that the award of £150 is not intended to value Mr Bs time. It 
is intended to be a fair and reasonable award for the inconvenience Mr B was caused  and 
whilst I can understand why Mr B has estimated the hours he spent trying to resolve the 
matter, I dont consider thats a fair and reasonable way to decide how much compensation 
to award for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.  
Instead Ive considered the service ITI provided to Mr B overall. And whilst Im satisfied that 
ITIs repeated failures to update Mr B caused him an inconvenience, Im also satisfied that 
Mr B wasnt in fact required to chase repeatedly in order for the matter to be resolved. For 
example, the stock transfer did take longer than anticipated  but the delay was primarily at 
the start of August 2020 following his request close his account. Once ITI received the stock 
transfer request from Mr Bs new broker, the transfer was completed within a month  I can 
see Mr B chased repeatedly during this time, but Im not persuaded it was reasonable for 
him to have expected the transfer to have completed within a week or a few days of his 
broker contacting ITI. 
Mr B has also said that I overlooked his email to the investigator setting out the trades he 
says he wouldve placed. But thats not what I was referring to when I explained there was 
insufficient evidence. When looking through the emails Mr B has provided, Ive found none 
where he told ITI at the time that he specifically wanted to buy certain stock. This 
contemporaneous evidence wouldve allowed me to determine that at the time, without the 
benefit of hindsight, Mr B was intending to purchase investments which he was prevented 
from doing by ITI. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Bs testimony of the trades he says he wouldve placed, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to award compensation for those, when ITI were never made 
aware at the time of the trades he wanted to place  or how urgently he wanted to place 
them. However, I have accepted that being unable to trade during that time wouldve likely 
added to the inconvenience he was already experiencing and therefore took that into 
account when deciding to increase the award.
 
Finally, I consider that ITI have continued to do too little to help Mr B obtain his share 
certificate in the company thats not currently listed on the stock exchange. The investigator 
did give Mr B some helpful advice around this  but I consider that ITI ought to have done 
more to respond to Mr B, its customer, and his new broker, in order to provide guidance and potentially liaise with the relevant registrar of the company. I consider this also added to the 
inconvenience Mr B was experiencing at the time. 
Taking all this into account, Im persuaded Mr B was caused material inconvenience by ITIs 
service failures, and Im satisfied that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for that. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that Mr B initially rejected ITIs offer of £75, and therefore it wasnt paid. 
If it was paid, that amount can be deducted from the award I make. 
ITI Capital Limited must pay Mr B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused by the poor service it provided to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. ITI Capital Limited must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr B has accepted this 
final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman