DRN-2785011
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK plc is responsible for poor service in connection with 
a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a cabriolet car which a car- maker made in about 
2014 with four-wheel drive and manual transmission. 
Mr B bought the car in August 2018 (according to the policy schedule in 2019).
For the year from September 2019, Mr B insured the car on a policy under which AXA was 
responsible for dealing with claims.
In about May 2020, the car was damaged in an accident. It had about 50,000 miles on the 
clock. AXA arranged recovery and repair. But Mr B complained that AXAs repairer returned 
the car to him with mechanical problems.
AXA wrote a final response dated 21 August 2020. It said it would pay Mr B £1,522.00 that is 
70% of the cost of a new clutch and wheel alignment. AXA also paid £250.00 for trouble and 
upset. 
Unhappy with that, Mr B brought his complaint to us in September 2020. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that he 
didnt have any persuasive evidence that the repairers error was the only cause of the clutch 
problems. So a 70% contribution seemed reasonable. Based on the timescales, the £250.00 
offer for trouble and upset also appeared reasonable. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
The car was in perfect working order before the accident. No engine management 
light was on. The car had 50,000 miles on the clock. So. its not fair to say the clutch 
couldve been faulty.
Due to the accident, the rear suspension leg and wheel was hanging off. The 
recovery driver shouldnt have driven the car onto the tow truck. He over-revved the 
car and the smell was terrible. You can imagine this was also done at the repair 
garage to get the car off the truck and onto ramps.
The repairer returned the car with the smell of burning. Within one day, the clutch 
was slipping so badly the car was not drivable. 
At his request, AXA took the car to a garage franchised by the car maker. For 
approximately 2 weeks, he had no courtesy car.
His wife was a key worker and needed transport to work.
The car maker has confirmed times when light was activated which was after the 
accident. The car maker has told him that the fault is on the exhaust manifold due to 
over-revving.
The car-maker completed work on the clutch and wheel alignment. AXA and its 
repairer wouldnt accept liability for payment. So the car maker wouldnt release the 
car. He and his wife were left with no option but to pay the repair bill they could ill 
afford.
The situation was getting really stressful.
Due to the treatment of the car during the transportation between his home and 
AXAs repairer, an engine management light is still on. AXA should have his car 
repaired so that no engine management light is on. He doesnt feel he and his wife 
should be made to pay to get the problem sorted out.
At the end of the day they have been mistreated and left in the lurch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against an insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm. Where I refer to AXA, I include the repairer and 
any others for whose actions I hold AXA responsible.
From what AXA and its repairer have each said, I find that the recovery driver drove the car 
onto his truck when he shouldnt have. I hold AXA reasonable for that mistake.
AXAs final response included the following:
The strain caused did have a contributing factor in the failure of your clutch and I 
agree we should be contributing towards this and your wheel alignment.
I accept that the repairer returned the car with a clutch that was slipping and that the 
franchised garage later replaced. And I accept that this was a source of inconvenience and 
financial worry to Mr B.
But Mr B didnt accept AXAs contribution of 70%. So it is for Mr B to show that AXA is 
responsible for the all the damage to his clutch. 
And he hasnt shown us enough evidence from the franchised garage or any other 
mechanical expert. So I dont find AXA responsible for all the damage to his clutch. And I 
dont find that AXA treated him unfairly by not providing a courtesy car or by not paying the 
franchised garage directly.
Similarly, it is for Mr B to show that AXA is responsible for damage to his exhaust manifold. 
And the franchised garage invoice includes the following:
Technician Report : - Sporadic faults re intake manifold, turbo charger - Re test after 
clutch fitted okAdvcise customer to monitor
That is evidence that after the garage replaced the clutch, the manifold was okay. And Mr B 
hasnt shown us enough evidence from the franchised garage or any other mechanical 
expert. So I dont find AXA responsible for damage to his exhaust manifold.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA did more than enough by reimbursing Mr B £1,522.00 out of 
the invoice of £2,174.00 and paying him £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman