DRN-2262118
The complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have failed to 
provide him an accurate re-build cost of his property in relation to his landlord insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr R held a landlords policy with LV and received renewal documents to continue the cover 
in early 2020. Mr R got in touch with LV to ask it to explain the approximate cost to re-build 
his property, and how this had been worked into the premium cost for his policy. He said he 
wanted this information so he could compare this policy with other policies available with 
other insurers. 
LV said it was unable to give a specific re-build cost for Mr Rs property as it was a blanket 
policy, but it confirmed that the cover was up to £1,000,000 as shown on his renewal 
documents. Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained LV 
didnt use a specific rebuild cost when calculating its premium costs and was able to choose 
to set its prices on this basis.
Mr R disagreed and said rebuilding costs is a major factor when calculating the overall 
premium cost of buildings insurance. Mr R also said he was unable to find any insurance 
comparison sites that didnt require him to provide a specific re-build cost.
Our investigator said she didnt dispute that rebuild costs would be a significant factor when 
calculating premium costs, but instead that LV didnt use a specific calculation for his policy 
and relied on an upper limit of £1,000,000. So it made an assumption that it wouldnt need to 
pay out more than this to rebuild Mr Rs property.
Mr R still disagreed, saying LV should be able to provide a calculation or formula as to how it 
reached its premium costs, and that hed asked for an approximate cost, not a specific one. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
My role as an ombudsman is to determine a complaint quickly and with minimal formality. 
That means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the issue in this complaint and Ill 
only comment on those things I deem relevant to the decision I need to make.
While I may not comment on everything Mr R has said, I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything thats been submitted by both parties.
Mr R is seeking an approximate value that he believes LV has used to calculate the cost of 
his premiums. LV has said it doesnt have an approximate value as this policy includes a 
blanket maximum sum of £1,000,000.
When presenting information to a customer, insurers have an obligation to ensure the 
information is clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive looked at what information LV has given 
to Mr R about his policy and specifically its rebuild value.
Mr Rs renewal documents say the limit of cover for the cost to rebuild your property if it was 
destroyed beyond repair is up to £1,000,000. Mr Rs policy document also reflects this same 
information. So it seems LV has given this information to Mr R in a clear, fair and not mis-
leading way.
Mr R hasnt disputed hes been told this, but he seems to believe theres another sum that 
sits behind this, or an approximate value that has been used for his property. But put simply, 
Im satisfied LV has given Mr R the information he has asked for, which is to say his rebuild 
value under this policy is up to £1,000,000.
Mr R has said he wants to know the approximate re-build value of the property so he can 
compare costs to other insurers. There are a number of calculators freely available online 
that Mr R could use should he wish to obtain this, and I dont see this responsibility sits with 
LV to provide him with this. LV has set out what level of cover it provides and Mr R can 
choose to compare policies with a similar level of cover, or source a specific rebuild cost 
himself if he feels this is more suitable to his needs.
For these reasons Im satisfied LV has provided Mr R with the information hes requested 
and Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman