DRN-2820200
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund to him the money 
that he paid for a glazing inspection report.
 
What happened
Mr A used his Halifax credit card in November 2019 to pay £600 towards the cost of a 
glazing inspection report. The total cost of the report was £1,200 and he paid the other £600 
by other means. He says that the report was substandard, inaccurate, flawed and 
incomplete so he claimed a refund of the £1,200 that hed paid for it from Halifax under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It didnt accept that there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
as it had fulfilled its contractual obligations. It said that there were issues with the report to 
begin with but they were corrected by the supplier and Mr A had received the report that hed 
paid for. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr A 
shouldnt have needed to correct the reports but it resolved the issue he had with the 
supplier and he felt that any existing breach was also resolved. So he agreed with the 
outcome reached by Halifax and didnt require it to take any further action.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he 
desperately needed the report and there was nobody else to do it so felt that he had to 
persist with it. He says that he should receive a refund of the £1,200 that he paid for the 
report and £1,000 for the time that he had to spend working on the report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr As complaint about Halifax, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the report and that 
Halifaxs response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im 
not determining the outcome of Mr As claim under section 75 as only a court would 
be able to do that;
its clear that Mr A wasnt satisfied with the report that was initially provided by the 
supplier about the glazing of his home  but he suggested some changes to the 
report that would make it acceptable to him and the supplier improved the report, 
through a number of versions, until Mr A was provided with the final report;
I agree with our investigator that Mr A shouldnt have need to do that  but he did do 
so and he received the report that hed paid for and Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that the final report wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for 
purpose;
I sympathise with Mr A for the time that he had to spend on the report and the 
difficulties that hes been caused, but Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in these circumstances;
I consider that Halifax has responded to Mr As claim fairly and reasonably; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to refund to Mr A 
any of the money that he paid for the report, to pay him the £1,000 that hes claimed 
for his time or any other compensation, or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman