DRN-1812977
The complaint
Mr V complains that Webb Holton & Associates Limited failed to provide appropriate advice 
when he enquired about surrendering an offshore bond and this resulted in a large and 
unnecessary tax liability. 
What happened
Mrs V had taken out the bond in 1999 and taken 5% income a year. Given her tax status, 
she would have incurred a taxable gain (liability) if shed surrendered it. Instead, she 
transferred it to Mr V, her husband, but he then incurred the taxable gain.
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld.
He said Mr V had enquired about surrendering the bond while it was still in his wifes name, 
indicating that she intended to encash it. WHA had confirmed she would incur a liability but 
said this could be reduced or eliminated if she transferred it to him depending on his current 
tax status and earnings (he had previously been a basic rate taxpayer).
He did not believe this constituted financial advice. Further, he noted that WHA had 
previously said it was transferring its advice service to a linked new business partner and 
would no longer offer itself advice. This, in his view, also indicated that it had not been 
offering ongoing advice about the bond.
He said that almost any basic rate taxpayer would have become a higher rate payer as a 
result of the surrender of a bond worth more than £120,000 and so would have incurred a 
liability. He also thought that if WHAs advisor', had not mentioned transferring the bond to 
Mr V then Mrs V would have gone ahead with the surrender herself, so still incurring a 
liability. So Mr and Mrs V had not lost out in any event.
Mr V disagreed, and said:
To say the email from WHA was not financial advice is surprising and unjustified
The directors of both companies are the same individuals who advised on 
their investments and therefore they have a degree of legal responsibility for any 
written advice
WHA previously sold them a number of bonds and had an ongoing relationship with 
them; this also involved a duty of care on the likely consequences of such a large 
withdrawal - and how to avoid any liability
To say that the transfer of the bond to him would have made no difference to their 
overall tax liability is to ignore WHAs previous advice based on him being in a lower 
tax threshold; if properly advised, he would have been able to substantially reduce 
his tax liability
By following the advice from WHA he was automatically propelled into a higher tax 
bracket with full exposure to the liability
To simply say that it was dependent on his earnings ignores this
They should have clearly explained the risk of a full surrender. If they had, his wife 
could have retained the bond or made a partial surrenderWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. As such, I shall 
not repeat the points he made.
Crucially, I am satisfied that WHAs advisor spelt out the factually-accurate position i.e. that 
Mrs V, as a higher rate taxpayer, would definitely incur a tax liability on surrender but it was 
possible that this could liability could be reduced if Mr V was still a basic rate taxpayer, 
depending on his income. This was correct. So whether this constituted mere information or 
advice, it was correct.
It was for Mr V to seek further information or advice either from WHA or the new linked 
advisory firm if he wanted greater clarity about the likelihood of there being a chargeable 
gain even if the bond was transferred into his name. I dont believe that WHA was required 
to proactively offer a detailed explanation of how the rules worked, seek information about 
Mr Vs current income or tax status or do more than it did.
I also have seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that Mrs V would have retained the 
bond, if such advice had been received, so even if I felt WHA should have gone further 
(which I don't) I could not reasonably conclude that it should now be responsible for any 
chargeable gain.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman