DRN-3411420
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs W renewed their Coverwise annual travel insurance policy, 
which was underwritten by IPA.
On 5 November 2020, the UK was placed under a series of legally-enforceable restrictions 
on travel and movement - commonly known as lockdown - by the UK government, to 
prevent the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was due to end on 2 December 2020 and the 
UK Prime Minister stated, on 23 November 2020, that there was no plan to extend it.
So on 26 November 2020, Mr and Mrs W booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call A. This 
country was part of a so-called travel corridor. This meant it was on a list of countries which 
was exempt from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice against 
all but essential travel abroad. Mr and Mrs W were due to travel between 22 and 30 
December 2020.
However, on 19 December 2020, the UK government announced that parts of the country 
would be placed under new higher-level restrictions on movement. These restrictions were 
known as Tier Four restrictions and made it illegal for residents of those areas to travel 
outside of their area except for specific, listed reasons. 
As Mr and Mrs W lived in an area which was placed within Tier Four, they had to cancel their 
trip. They were able to recover the cost of their flights (except for a seat allocation fee), but 
their accommodation costs were non-refundable. So they made a claim for the cost of their 
accommodation and their seat selection costs. 
IPA settled the cost of Mr and Mrs Ws seat selection, as this cost had been incurred after 
the November to December lockdown had ended. But it declined to pay Mr and Mrs Ws 
accommodation costs. It said these costs werent covered by the terms of the policy and it 
said thered been advice against travel at the point Mr and Mrs W had booked the 
accommodation. It did acknowledge that it hadnt handled the claim as well as it shouldve 
done and so it paid Mr and Mrs W £50 compensation to reflect this.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with IPAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said theyd renewed the policy because it included Enhanced Cover for 
Covid-19. And they said that when theyd booked the trip on 26 November 2020, itd been 
on the understanding that lockdown wouldnt be extended. They said they couldnt have 
foreseen the imposition of Tier Four rules.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
circumstances of the claim were covered by the Cancellation section of the policy. And 
neither did he think the claim was payable under the Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 section 
either. Thats because he didnt think the claim was caused by one of the specific insured 
events IPA covered under that heading. In particular, he didnt think the FCDO had been 
advising against travel to A at the point the trip was cancelled and he didnt think Tier Four 
restrictions were akin to self-isolation or quarantine.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. In brief, they felt that that Tier Four should be treated as 
quarantine. Thats because they hadnt been unable to travel freely and they didnt have a 
reasonable excuse to leave their area. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think it was fair for IPA to turn 
down the accommodation claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that whilst Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and their submissions, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. I 
havent commented on each point theyve made within this decision though and nor do our 
rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim, to decide whether 
IPA treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ws contract with IPA.  Ive considered the claim in line with the both cancellation section of 
the policy and the Enhanced Cover for Covid-19, which applies to the terms of the existing 
contract.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip had to be cancelled after their area was placed 
under Tier Four restrictions. This means I think it was appropriate for IPA to initially consider 
the claim in line with the cancellation section of the policy. Cancellation cover is set out on 
page 20 of the policy document and says that IPA will pay a policyholders pre-paid travel 
and accommodation costs if a trip has to be cancelled for one of the following, specified 
reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
(which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment legislation, 
and at the time of booking the trip or one-way trip there was no reason to believe anyone 
would be made redundant).4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of 
the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or 
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or 
are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation could not reasonably 
have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking 
any trip or one-way trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, 
fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
The Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 doesnt form part of the main policy document. Its an 
add-on to the terms of the existing contract. Details about this cover were sent to Mr and Mrs 
W as part of their welcome documentation at the renewal of their policy. This welcome letter 
says:
Before you travel, weve included cover for cancellation due to you falling ill with Covid-19 
and being unable to travel or being required to self-isolate, subject to medical certification or 
an official test result
Trip cancellation
1. Your policy will cover you, subject to the normal terms, when it is necessary to cancel your 
trip because:
1. You or a close relative fall ill with COVID-19 or another infectious disease before you 
travel.
2. The UK government require a person insured by your policy to quarantine or self-isolate 
on the date you are scheduled to depart.
3. A family member you were due to stay with has to quarantine or self-isolate and you have 
nowhere else to stay.
4. Your specific destination overseas is subject to the following travel restrictions:
1. The UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against travel; or
2. the Ministry of foreign affairs or local authorities are denying entry; or
3. the Ministry of foreign affairs or local authorities require a person insured by your 
policy to quarantine or self-isolate on arrival.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Theres no dispute 
that the trip was cancelled following the imposition of Tier Four restrictions by the UK 
government to restrict the spread of Covid-19. Cancellation of a trip due to government 
regulations isnt something which IPA has chosen to include as a defined, specific insured 
event.
It's clear the policy does cover cancellation due to Covid-19 in certain circumstances. So Ive 
thought about each of these in turn. Theres no suggestion that Mr and Mrs W or a close 
relative had fallen ill with Covid-19 or another illness prior to departure which led to the 
cancellation of their trip. Nor does it appear that Mr and Mrs W had been specifically 
contacted by the NHS Track and Trace system to advise them that theyd been a close 
contact of a positive Covid-19 case and therefore, were required to self-isolate strictly. At the point Mr and Mrs W had been due to travel, the FCDO wasnt advising against all but 
essential travel to A. It remained part of the travel corridor during the period Mr and Mrs W 
were due to travel, which meant it remained exempt from FCDO advice against travel. And 
As borders were open to foreign nationals. While As government required evidence that a 
traveller didnt have Covid-19, there was no requirement for British nationals to quarantine or 
self-isolate upon arrival.
Mr and Mrs W strongly feel that the Tier Four restrictions should be treated as quarantine, 
given the plain and ordinary meaning of the word. As IPA hasnt defined what it means by 
quarantine, Ive considered this carefully. I accept that within Tier Four areas; travel and 
movement, as well as household mixing, were severely restricted and there were fines for 
breaches of the regulations. 
But I also need to bear in mind that the restrictions didnt mean that people couldnt leave 
their homes at all. They were able to leave home, for a limited number of reasons, including 
to shop, work, for school and exercise (amongst other things) and werent required to stay 
indoors at all times for a defined period. They could also form a support bubble in some 
circumstances and could meet one other person outdoors.
In my view then, this is distinct and distinguishable from a situation where a person was 
directed to strictly stay-at-home or in a hotel room at all times, either by the NHS (in the case 
of shielding or contact with a positive case of Covid-19) or by a government as part of its 
entry requirements. I may find that such circumstances could form a requirement to 
quarantine or strictly self-isolate. But whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling 
on their own circumstances, I dont think I could reasonably conclude that Tier Four 
restrictions should be treated as quarantine.
Id add too that the cancellation section of the policy specifically excludes:
Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking 
any tripwhich could reasonably be expected to lead to the cancellation of the trip
I appreciate that when Mr and Mrs W booked the trip, the government stated that the 
lockdown which was in force at that point wouldnt be extended. But I do need to consider 
that over the past few months; domestic restrictions had been lifted and then re-imposed; 
travel continued to be severely affected and restricted, with countries being removed from 
travel corridor lists at short notice; and that a lockdown was in place at the point the trip was 
booked. So while I can understand why Mr and Mrs W may have hoped their plans could go 
ahead, I think they ought to have been reasonably aware that their trip might have to be 
cancelled at short notice due to Covid-19.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ws position, I dont think there are 
any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct IPA to pay this claim. This means I find it 
was fair for IPA to turn the claim down.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman