DRN-3631015
The complaint
Miss H has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H contacted QIC to make a claim when her wall was damaged during a storm. QIC 
assessed the damage and declined the claim because it said, although there was a storm, 
the damage was the result of gradual damage.
When Miss H complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Miss H 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was 
reasonable for QIC to decline the claim based on its surveyors findings.
As Miss H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the damage and can see there were 
windspeeds that would be considered to be storm conditions under the terms of the policy. 
Where windspeeds are strong enough, I think this could cause a wall to collapse. So, I think 
the answer to the first and second questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor said:
The wall was inspected and found to be in a poor state due to age. The stone have de-
bonded from each other due to a weak mortar mix. We looked at the remaining wall and 
found other areas were cracked and loose and the main gate pillar had twisted. This is all 
pre-existing and it is because the wall is in this state it has come down. Therefore we would 
not consider the wall is damaged as a direct result of the storm.
I also looked at the photos taken by the surveyor, which showed the damage and the issues 
identified by the surveyor in the report. Based on the surveyors findings, I think it was 
reasonable for QIC to decline the claim, as there was evidence of pre-existing issues with 
the wall. I think its fair that QIC relied on this evidence to decide the damage was likely to 
have been caused gradually and was highlighted by the storm. The storm section of the 
policy had an exclusion for gradual damage.
Im aware that Miss H has appointed a representative, who has provided comments. 
However, I dont think these make a difference. The representative said online photos of the 
wall showed it was in good condition before the storm, including in comparison to 
neighbours walls. I looked online and the most recent images I could find were about seven 
years old. I dont think the images showed that the survey carried out shortly after the 
damage happened was an unreliable assessment of the wall. 
The representative also described the fence on top of the wall creating a sail effect in the 
wind, which he said acted as a pull at the wall and caused it to collapse. He said the fence 
panels were manmade with less gaps between each slat to allow wind to pass through. So, 
what the representative seemed to describe was poor workmanship or design. That also 
wasnt covered by the policy. Even if that isnt what the representative intended to describe, 
this doesnt persuade me that QIC carried out an inappropriate assessment of the damage 
or that it made an unfair decision. I think the evidence still shows there were pre-existing 
issues with the wall and that it was reasonable for QIC to decide these were the main cause 
of the damage.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require QIC to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman