DRN-2882364
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Lloyds Bank PLC, as he did not feel their options for changing 
ones address were sufficient for him.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr D wanted to change his address for his Lloyds account. It was not 
possible to change his address on Lloyds desktop online banking site, and Mr D didnt have 
Lloyds mobile banking app. So Mr D phoned Lloyds. But he hadnt got a security number to 
verify himself on telephone banking either. Lloyds offered to verify him by sending a text, but 
he didnt have a phone that could receive texts while still on a call.
Lloyds explained they could send Mr D a security number for telephone banking, or he could 
write in to change his address. But Mr D felt this would be too slow and he was worried his 
old address could be used for fraud in the meantime. So Mr D chose to change his address 
in a branch the following day.
Mr D complained. He felt hed been made to take time away from work and to travel into a 
branch during a pandemic. He felt Lloyds had not offered him sufficient options to change his 
address. He would have preferred to have changed his address using the desktop online 
banking site. He felt Lloyds address changing procedures did not take account of older 
people who didnt have a smartphone. He was also unhappy that Lloyds didnt make more 
effort to speak to him on the phone when responding to his complaint.
Lloyds explained they allowed people to change their address via the mobile banking app 
but not the desktop online banking site because the mobile app was more secure. They said 
they provided Mr D with a way forward by offering to do the address change by post, in 
branch, or by sending him a security code so he could do it using telephone banking. They 
explained theyd normally make more attempts to speak to a customer on the phone about a 
complaint, but had severely reduced capacity to do so because of the pandemic.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained we werent the regulator and couldnt tell Lloyds to change their processes. And 
handling complaints, in and of itself, was not an activity we covered. They felt Lloyds had 
explained things reasonably and had offered Mr D a number of ways he could change his 
address, including reasonable alternatives to going into branch. Mr D didnt agree, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
As our investigator explained, we cant make a bank change their processes  its the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short) who regulates financial businesses 
and their systems. But I have thought carefully about how Lloyds dealt with Mr D here and 
whether they did anything wrong in this individual case.
Its very important that banks keep their customers accounts secure. And a customers 
address is an important piece of information, so it makes sense to only let people change it 
using secure methods. Lloyds have given a reasonable explanation about why Mr D could 
change his address using some methods, but not others.
I understand Mr D may have felt like his only option was to go into branch, but I can see that 
Lloyds offered him reasonable alternatives. I also understand Mr D felt that changing his 
address by post or waiting for a security code for telephone banking might have been too 
slow, meaning his post mightve gone to the wrong address in the meantime. But he could 
always have asked Lloyds to temporarily stop sending him mail until the address change 
was done, or he could have had his mail temporarily redirected from his old address to the 
new one.
Ultimately, Lloyds offered Mr D quite a range of options for changing his address, and he 
chose to do it in branch based on his preferences and what he felt worked best for him. And 
his address was successfully updated. I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong there. 
Lastly, as our investigator pointed out, complaint handling is not a regulated activity  so 
its not normally something we can consider in and of itself. I understand Mr D feels strongly 
about how Lloyds handled his complaint, though. So Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered the overall service that Lloyds provided Mr D here.
In doing so, I appreciate Mr D would have preferred Lloyds to have made more effort to 
speak to him on the phone about his complaint. But the pandemic was an unprecedented, 
global event, which affected banks and businesses all over the world. Lloyds were dealing 
with far more queries from customers than usual, with reduced staff and with some offices 
having to stay closed. So it wasnt practical for them to keep trying to phone Mr D. It seems 
reasonable to me that they responded to Mr Ds complaint in writing. And while their initial 
response lacked detail, they followed this up with two comprehensive letters and passed on 
feedback where it was needed.
Having carefully considered what happened in this situation, I do not think that Lloyds did 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman