DRN-2910219
The complaint
Mr W has complained about lending made by Capital One (Europe) plc on six credit card 
accounts he opened. This case covers the three card accounts opened between 2014 and 
2016, which our service has previously decided fall within our jurisdiction.
What happened
Mr W has had a series of credit card accounts with Capital One. He says that he wanted us 
to look at what Capital One had done when it lent money to him, because he didnt think it 
had done proper checks. 
Our service has previously decided that we can consider Mr Ws complaint about three of 
these cards. Those are -
card ending 8929, opened July 2014 with a limit of £1,000, paid off and closed in 
June 2015. 
card ending 6582, opened January 2015 with a limit of £1,000, paid off and closed in 
May 2015.
card ending 3299, opened July 2016 with a limit of £500, which was written off and 
closed in July 2019 in response to a separate complaint.
Capital One wrote to tell us about the checks it had done when Mr W made these 
applications. It said that for each of these cards, Mr W had declared an income of £20,000 or 
more and said that his living situation was such that he was likely to have limited outgoings. 
And most importantly, Capital One had checked that his credit file was in good order. Capital 
One said that it ran these checks each time Mr W applied for a new card account, and on 
each of these three occasions he had no visible defaults or county court judgments, and no 
late payment marks in the twelve months before the application. 
Capital One said it thought that these three accounts had been generally well managed by 
Mr W. It sent us summaries of the statements for each of the accounts. Capital One said the 
first two cards had been paid in full and closed, the first in June 2015, the second in May 
2015. Mr Ws third card was closed after the balance was written off, as a resolution to a 
separate complaint. 
Capital One set out for us that it had checked Mr Ws credit file each time he applied for 
lending, and each time there were no visible defaults, CCJs, or late payment marks. It said 
that he had made all of his payments on time, and he generally paid more than the 
minimum. It didnt think it had made a mistake by lending to him. But it recognised that he 
hadnt been happy with its service, so it said it was making sure he would not receive any 
future marketing from it.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr W had 
explained he felt the credit cards shouldnt have been approved based on his account 
conduct. But she thought that the accounts were well maintained, so she said that didnt 
make her think that the lending was irresponsible.
Our investigator said she thought Capital One conducted sufficient checks to enable it to 
make a decision on whether the lending was affordable. So she said she couldnt ask it to 
refund any interest and charges on the account. 
Mr W disagreed. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Capital One says Mr W told it his income, and that his living situation was such that he would 
have limited outgoings. And Capital One has been clear that there was nothing in Mr Ws 
credit file that shouldve made it think it ought not to lend to him. Mr W hasnt suggested 
otherwise. 
On the basis of what Capital One has told us, I dont think there was anything in the 
information Mr W shared with Capital One, or on Mr Ws credit file, that shouldve made 
Capital One think that it would be irresponsible to open any of these three cards for Mr W.
Mr W has said that it was the conduct of his accounts which ought to have alerted Capital 
One to the fact that lending to him would be irresponsible. But I cant see anything in the 
conduct of these accounts to make me think that. Mr Ws first two accounts had been paid 
off in full and closed quite some time before these lending decisions were made. Then these 
accounts were, from the statements Ive seen, generally well managed. I can see that Mr W 
opened the new account for card ending 6582 whilst the account for card ending 8929 was 
still open, but the total amount of lending doesnt appear to me to be clearly excessive, so 
that Capital One shouldve thought it was irresponsible. And I can also see a small number 
of occasions where Mr W did slip over his credit limit, on the first of these three cards. But I 
can also see that he took prompt action to rectify that. So I dont think that this was a clear 
sign that Mr W was in financial difficulties.
Ive looked at everything in this case carefully, and I cant conclude that Capital One ought 
not to have made this lending to Mr W.
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman