DRN-3721641
The complaint
Mrs J complains that LifeSearch Partners Limited mis-sold her a critical illness policy. She 
says the advisor told her she would be covered for all conditions.
What happened
In late 2014, Mrs J, along with her husband Mr J, contacted LifeSearch through a 
comparison website. They were reviewing their personal protection policies and were 
concerned that some of the sums assured under their existing provision were on a 
decreasing term basis. They were looking to secure level term cover for an extended period. 
Following discussion with LifeSearch, Mr and Mrs J took out new life and critical illness 
policies.  
Unfortunately, Mrs J later became very unwell and in 2021 claimed on her policy. The claim 
was declined on the grounds that Mrs Js condition was not a covered condition. 
Mrs J complained to LifeSearch, saying she was told her policy would cover her for all 
serious illnesses. LifeSearch didnt uphold her complaint, so she came to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator reviewed things but also didnt uphold Mrs Js 
complaint. He thought the terms of the policy had been made clear. As Mrs J remained 
unhappy, her case has come to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs J and Im sorry I cant bring better news. Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Mrs J has been through a difficult time in recent years. 
Shes suffered serious ill-health thats had a significant impact on her day-to-day life. My 
decision is in no way intended to minimise Mrs Js experience, which I accept has been very 
challenging.
The sale of this policy took place over the phone. LifeSearch was advising Mrs J on cover 
available to her. So it had to ensure the policies recommended were suitable for her needs. 
Having looked at the policy comparison report, demands and needs statement and 
application form, I can see that LifeSearch took into account Mrs Js personal circumstances, 
level of existing cover and protection objectives. The demands and needs statement says:
The main purpose of the cover is a lump sum in the event of death or earlier serious 
illness, to your Repayment Mortgage where the cover remains level throughout and in the 
event of a claim, the difference between the outstanding balance on the mortgage and 
the sum assured is returned to your estate. 
The main aims are to provide cover for £120,000 for the next 15 years and to provide 
single-life cover. 
This recommendation also aims to take into account that you were happy to proceed with 
the policy agreed over the phone on the basis of the information disclosed in the call, on 
the understanding that full details will be sent in the post, and that you retain the right to 
cancel the policy within 30 days of inception.
So overall, Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable, in that it provided level term 
assurance and critical illness cover for an extended period at a price Mrs J was agreeable to 
paying. 
But Mrs J has specifically complained that she was told her critical illness policy would cover 
everything. Unfortunately, the call from the time of sale is no longer available. LifeSearch 
has told us its advisors didnt use call scripts, but a checklist was provided, detailing things 
that should be covered off in the call. The first two issues listed are:
Severity  the condition has to be of a certain severity to claim
Specific  that there is a limited amount of conditions that you can claim on
 
Additionally, the comparison report was sent to the email address Mr and Mrs J provided. 
The report listed which conditions were covered under three policies sourced by LifeSearch. 
Im aware Mrs J says this was her husbands report and that she didnt receive one. I 
understand the report was generated in Mr Js name as he was the first applicant. And it was 
only possible to submit one email address as a contact point through the comparison 
website. But Mr and Mrs J approached LifeSearch together and were considering identical 
cover, which they both subsequently took out. The conditions covered were applicable to 
both applicants recommendations. And LifeSearch has said that Mrs J wouldve had to 
confirm the email address as part of their telephone security. This suggests to me that Mrs J 
was happy to use this email address for correspondence during the application.
Finally, Mrs J has told us she received full policy documents from the insurer she went with. 
These documents also set out the conditions covered. So Im satisfied she had the 
opportunity to review the details of her cover and question anything that didnt tally with her 
understanding of what she thought she was getting. 
So on balance, I think it likely Mrs J was given accurate information and the terms were 
made sufficiently clear, although I dont dispute her recollection is clearly otherwise. 
Overall, I dont think Mrs J was treated unfairly or mis-advised when applying for cover, so I 
dont uphold her complaint.  Once again, Im sorry not to be able to give Mrs J the answer 
she was hoping for. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman