DRN-4003765
The complaint
Mr F complained to Pension Insurance Corporation that changes made to his pension as a 
result of a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) equalisation review will result in him being 
financially disadvantaged in the future. This arises from the removal of the opportunity for 
future discretionary increases to be applied to his pension benefits. 
He would like this option to be reinstated or to receive compensation to reflect the changes 
made
What happened
In late March 2017, Mr F began to receive pension benefits from his occupational pension 
scheme. The pension was administered by KPMG. After his occupational scheme wound up, 
his benefits were paid by the Pension Protection Fund and then bought out by Pension 
Insurance. This pension contained two parts.
The first was in respect of GMP benefits accrued before 6 April 1988. This element provided 
an income of £2,460.68 pa and was not subject to any further increases.
The second was for non-GMP rights accrued before 6 April 1997 and provided an income of 
£1,236.44. This element seems in the past to have been eligible for discretionary increases.
Mr F received a total of £3,697.08 pa. Mr Fs non-GMP benefits were increased in April 2018 
by 3%, giving a new annual income of £3,734.28.
In 2019 the employers pension scheme underwent a review relating to GMP benefits that 
arose as a result of a High Court judgement in October 2018 that required schemes to 
ensure that equal GMP benefits were received by both males and females  this was called 
GMP equalisation. All pension providers had to conduct such reviews on all pensions that 
contained an element of GMP benefits. Essentially, as part of the review the benefits 
accrued by each individual were assessed as if they were of the opposite sex. If this found 
that they would receive a higher level of benefits if they were of the opposite sex, their 
benefits were increased accordingly.
Following this, all GMP benefits were converted into non-GMP benefits in a process called 
GMP conversion.
In November 2019, Mr F was informed by his occupational scheme that that the outcome of 
the review of his pension had found that his pension should be increased by 11p pa to 
£3,734.39, but all of his GMP benefits were converted to non-GMP benefits and were to be 
treated in the same way as the rest of his existing benefits. 
After Pension Insurance took over the pension, Mr F noticed on the policy documents it had 
sent him that his benefits were not subject to discretionary increases any longer. Previous 
correspondence Mr F had received had contained information that indicated that no one 
would receive a lower pension as a result of the GMP review. Mr F felt that the opportunity to 
receive discretionary increases was a valuable benefit and their loss was incompatible with 
this statement. He complained about this to Pension Insurance on 29 April 2021.
Mr F received a final response from Pension Insurance on 11 August 2021 rejecting his 
complaint. It said according to its data, his non-GMP benefits werent subject to any 
increases.
Mr F was unhappy with this decision, so the case was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence and decided that the case should not be upheld 
and that Pension Insurance had acted correctly in its treatment of his pension in relation to 
the GMP equalisation review.
Mr F disagreed, so this case has been passed to me to review the evidence again and make 
a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2023, the relevant parts of which are 
reproduced below and forms part of my decision:
The dispute here is whether Mr Fs pension benefits should be eligible for discretionary 
increases.
Mr F provided evidence, in the form of a letter received from KPMG in April 2018, that his 
non-GMP benefits had received a discretionary increase of 3%. Mr F also referred to letters 
he received in April 2017 and April 2019 from KPMG which referred to the discretionary 
increase (but that no increase was agreed for these years.)
I asked Pensions Insurance to provide evidence to support its view that his previous non-
GMP pension did not have this benefit. It pointed to the letter Mr F received from his 
occupational scheme in November 2019 which set out that his non-GMP benefits werent 
subject to increases. It also sent internal data which was provided to them when it took over 
the pension which also shows that the pre 1997 non-GMP benefits werent subject to any 
increases.
Given that Mr F in fact received an increase in 2018, I find this compelling evidence that his 
benefits were subject to discretionary increases in 2018 whilst in the scheme. 
However, based on the evidence provided it seems the trustees of the occupational pension 
either removed this discretionary increase during the GMP equalisation and conversion 
process in late 2019 or incorrectly recorded that no increase would apply. The parties 
mentioned Mr Fs pension moved to the PPF. So these discretionary increases-which would 
have been at the discretion of the employer and/or trustees of the pension scheme-would 
not have been paid in the PPF. 
Either way, I cant see that Pension Insurance did anything wrong here. It seems that by the 
time it bought out the pension policy, the records it was provided with showed that no 
increases applied to Mr Fs benefits. The change from a discretionary increase to none 
seems to have happened before Pension Insurance took over.
Mr F responded and said that he disagreed with my provisional decision. His main objection 
was that according to the communication he received from his administrator on 29 
November 2019 that stated:
Could members pensions be lower as a result?No, GMP equalization and conversion wont lead to any members getting a lower pension
Mr F feels that the removal of the opportunity for future discretionary increases in his 
pension is incompatible with this statement. Although I appreciate how Mr F may have 
reached this conclusion, I believe that it is reasonable to assume that this statement referred 
to the current monetary value of the pension not being reduced. 
However, in any event, any errors that might have occurred or wrong information given to Mr 
F happened before Pension Insurance took over his pension. And Mr F is in agreement that 
Pension Insurance hasnt done anything wrong.
Mr F thinks he now has no viable claim against previous parties involved and feels as 
Pension Insurance took over his pension assets they would be responsible for any errors 
made on this pension even before they took over. However, I dont think it would be 
reasonable in this case to hold Pension Insurance responsible for other parties previous 
actions in this case. 
They simply bought out the scheme and took over the responsibility to provide Mr Fs 
pension. I would expect any liability for earlier errors and misinformation by previous 
administrators or the scheme trustees to remain with these parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the further points made by Mr F to my provisional decision, 
my decision to not uphold this complaint remains the same as set out in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
Essentially, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. Im satisfied that the key points remain the same and have been considered by me 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and I shall not be asking 
Pensions Insurance Corporation to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman