DRN-2525538
The complaint
 Mrs G complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a medical expenses
claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
 On 3 July 2018, Mrs G took out a travel policy online through a price comparison website, to
cover a trip she was taking the next day, 4 July 2018. Early on 4 July 2018, Mrs G visited her
local A&E on the way to the airport as her leg had become red and swollen. The doctor in
A&E diagnosed her with cellulitis and prescribed her with antibiotics. Mrs G says the doctor
told her she was fit to fly. Mrs G flew abroad as planned.
Unfortunately, Mrs Gs condition deteriorated and she was admitted to hospital for a few
days for treatment. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the medical
expenses she incurred.
ERGO turned down Mrs Gs claim. It obtained copies of her medical records and noted that
Mrs G had previously suffered from cellulitis; that she was prescribed medication for
migraines and had suffered from UTIs. And it also noted that the medical report from the
treating hospital suggested Mrs Gs symptoms had started the day before she took out the
policy. So ERGO said Mrs S shouldve declared these conditions when she bought the
insurance. But Mrs S had answered no to a question which asked her whether she had any
pre-existing medical conditions and so she didnt have any medical cover. The policy
specifically excluded claims arising from pre-existing medical conditions. On this basis,
ERGO said Mrs Gs claim wasnt covered. It also said that Mrs G shouldve let it know about
her diagnosis of cellulitis after shed been to A&E on the day she travelled.
Mrs G wasnt happy with ERGOs decision. She said she hadnt had any symptoms of
cellulitis until 4 July 2018, when shed woken with swelling and redness. And she hadnt
known she needed to tell ERGO about her migraines or previous UTIs. She asked us to look
into her complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that ERGO should pay Mrs Gs claim on a
proportionate basis, in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). He felt that Mrs G shouldve called up to tell ERGO about her cellulitis
diagnosis. And he also thought she shouldve been prompted to tell it about her prescription
for migraine and UTIs and her past episode of cellulitis. He noted that ERGO had carried out
a screening to show what premium it wouldve charged Mrs G if shed declared her medical
conditions and that shed have needed to pay an additional £19.68. So the investigator
thought that ERGO should pay the claim proportionately.
ERGO disagreed. It didnt agree that the investigator had correctly applied the provisions of
CIDRA. It said a proportionate claim payment would only be appropriate if a policyholder had
carelessly failed to declare their medical conditions at the point of sale. But it considered that
in this case, Mrs G had deliberately sought to misrepresent her health when she bought the
policy. Thats because the evidence from the treating hospital suggested that Mrs Gs
symptoms began on 3 July 2018  the same day she bought the policy. So ERGO felt Mrs G
had bought the policy knowing she was already suffering from symptoms and that she might
need to make a claim. It also felt shed deliberately failed to answer the online health
question when she bought the policy.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2021, which explained the reasons why I was 
planning to partly uphold Mrs Gs complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
Did Mrs G make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA?
When Mrs G took out the policy online, she was asked information about herself, her trip and
her medical conditions. ERGO used this information to decide whether or not to insure Mrs
G and if so, on what terms.
ERGO says that Mrs G didnt correctly answer the questions she was asked when she took
out the policy. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to
apply these principles to the circumstances of Mrs Gs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information.
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at
the questions Mrs G was asked during the online sales process.
ERGO has provided screenshots showing the sales journey Mrs G wouldve followed.
However, she bought the policy through a price comparison website which asks the following
question:
Does anyone travelling have any pre-existing medical conditions?
Examples include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and respiratory conditions
(including asthma.)
ERGO says that Mrs G shouldve answered yes to this question. If shed done so, shed
have gone through a full medical screening. So Ive looked closely at the available medical
evidence to decide whether I think Mrs G took reasonable care to answer ERGOs question.
Ive first considered the letter from A&E dated 4 July 2018, which confirms Mrs G sought
medical attention that morning. It was at that point she was given a diagnosis of cellulitis and
treatment. This post-dated Mrs G taking out the policy. I accept though that the records from
the treating hospital abroad do appear to indicate that Mrs Gs symptoms began on 3 July
2018  the same day she bought the policy.
But it seems to me that the dates could be down to the time difference between the UK and
the country Mrs G had visited. I say that because the records suggest that Mrs G had seen a
clinic after she developed symptoms; had been diagnosed with cellulitis and prescribed
antibiotics. And that shed flown into the country the next day. Taking into account the fact
the letter from A&E states that Mrs G saw the doctor and was prescribed antibiotics on 4
July 2018, the same day she flew from the UK, it seems at least equally possible that Mrs G
didnt develop symptoms and seek help until after shed bought the policy. And theres no
dispute that she didnt have a diagnosis until 4 July 2018. So I dont think shed have thought
she had a pre-existing medical condition that she needed to declare.
The medical records do show that Mrs G received treatment for a UTI around six weeksbefore she took out the policy. But theres nothing to suggest the treatment she received
didnt work or that she was still suffering from an infection when she took out the policy. The
question she was asked didnt mention recently prescribed medication or a timeframe ERGO
wanted to know about. So I dont think it ought to have prompted Mrs G to tell ERGO about
this infection.
I accept the GPs records do show that Mrs G was prescribed medication for migraines. But
it seems she hadnt seen the GP for migraines for around 23 months before she bought the
policy. And Mrs G said she only suffered headaches around four times a year. Again, the
question didnt refer to whether a consumer was taking medication. And Im not persuaded,
on balance, that migraines seemed to be an active problem or one that Mrs G wouldve
considered to be a pre-existing medical condition. So Im not currently satisfied that Mrs G
deliberately sought to mislead ERGO about this condition.
Currently, taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded that Mrs G failed to take
reasonable care to answer ERGOs question. I dont think ERGO has shown its more likely
than not that Mrs G already had symptoms or a diagnosis when she took out the policy. So I
dont think its fair for ERGO to turn down the claim, or pay it proportionately, on this basis.
Was Mrs Gs condition a significant change in health?
Ive then thought about whether Mrs G ought to have got in touch with ERGO to let it know
about her diagnosis of cellulitis after shed been to A&E and had been prescribed antibiotics.
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mrs Gs insurance contract to see if ERGO required Mrs
G to do so.
The policy says:
Changes in health
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the
following happens:
 you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
 your doctor, or consultant changes your prescribed medication
 you receive inpatient medical treatment
 you are placed on a waiting list for investigation or medical treatment
then you must contact the Customer Helpline. A member of the team will ask you
specific questions about your medical condition(s). This may result in an additional premium 
to allow cover to continue for all pre-existing medical conditions and associated conditions.
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 2: Cancellation for your costs 
which cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health.
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
Please note that your doctor, or consultant telling you that you are well enough to travel does
not mean that you will be covered for your pre-existing medical condition(s). If you have any
concerns regarding whether, or not you will be covered please contact the Customer
Helpline.
Mrs G says she didnt have enough time between seeing the doctor and boarding her flightto call ERGO. But Mrs Gs symptoms were serious enough to warrant a visit to A&E before
she travelled and she was prescribed medication to take while she was away. So in these
circumstances, Im currently satisfied that her diagnosis did represent a significant change in
the risk to ERGO of Mrs G needing to make a claim while she was away. This means I think
it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs G to call ERGOs helpline to check whether it was still
prepared to cover her for her trip and if so, at what cost.
So I asked ERGO what it wouldve done if Mrs G had told it about her diagnosis on 4 July
2018. Its provided evidence to show that if shed done so, it wouldve declined to provide her
with any further travel insurance cover for her trip, because the risk wouldve been too high.
I need to decide then what I think its most likely Mrs G wouldve done if shed known she
wouldnt be covered for her holiday. The policy says ERGO will either offer a policyholder the
option to cancel their trip and make a claim; or provide a proportionate refund of premium.
Mrs G says the doctor in A&E told her shed be fit to travel despite her diagnosis. So it
seems to me that Mrs G would therefore have considered it unlikely that her condition would
worsen or that shed need to make a claim on the insurance as a result of it. I also say this
because Mrs G didnt think the condition was serious enough to tell ERGO about, once she
had a formal diagnosis and antibiotics. So Im currently persuaded that even if Mrs G had
known her policy with ERGO was no longer valid, shed still have opted to travel as planned.
I think shed have most likely have chosen to take up the proportionate premium refund and
then potentially considered taking out insurance with another provider. This means I dont
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to find that ERGO should pay the cancellation
costs that wouldve applied had Mrs G chosen to cancel her trip at this point.
In these particular circumstances, I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint would be for ERGO to pay Mrs G a proportionate refund of the premium she paid
for the policy together with interest of 8%. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to
direct it to pay her claim, either in full or proportionately. Thats because I think Mrs G
shouldve let ERGO know about her diagnosis and that if she had, it wouldnt have agreed to
cover it.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
ERGO accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs G didnt. She asked for it to be noted that shed only visited A&E on the morning of her 
departure, because it was early in the morning. Her GP surgery wouldnt have been open at 
that time and A&E was the only place where shed have been able to get a prompt medical 
opinion before boarding her flight. Her symptoms werent serious at that point. The doctor 
assessed her leg; prescribed antibiotics and said he was happy for Mrs G to travel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think the fair outcome is for ERGO to refund a proportionate refund of 
the premium she paid for the policy, plus interest and Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Gs told me about the reason why she visited A&E and 
not her GP. Given the doctor didnt admit Mrs G to hospital at that point, I accept her 
symptoms werent likely to be very serious at that point. And it appears the doctor thought 
that antibiotics would treat the cellulitis.  However, it remains the case that Mrs G was 
experiencing symptoms that were serious enough that she felt that her leg required assessment by a doctor.  So I think she likely recognised that she might need some form of 
treatment.
Theres no dispute that the doctor made a diagnosis of cellulitis and prescribed Mrs G 
antibiotics. I still think this was a significant enough change in Mrs Gs health that she ought 
to have been prompted to call ERGO and check whether it was still prepared to insure her, 
and if so, on what terms, even if the doctor had thought she was fit to travel. If shed done 
so, ERGO wouldve let Mrs G know that it would no longer be able to insure her.
Mrs G hasnt suggested in response to my provisional decision that she wouldve decided to 
cancel the trip if shed learned ERGO would no longer be prepared to cover her. This means 
Im still persuaded shed most likely have still decided to travel as planned. So Im still 
satisfied that in the circumstances of this complaint, that it wouldnt be fair to tell ERGO to 
pay Mrs Gs claim or pay her the cancellation costs she wouldve incurred at this point. 
Instead, Ive decided it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to pay Mrs G a proportionate 
refund of the premium she paid, together with annual interest of 8% simple.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mrs G the proportionate refund of the
premium that wouldve applied on 4 July 2018, if shed let it know about her diagnosis of
cellulitis. I also direct ERGO to add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8%
simple from 4 July 2018 until the date of settlement.  
*If ERGO considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give
Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman