DRN-4237818
The complaint
Mr P complains that ReAssure Life Limited delayed transferring his pension and caused him 
financial loss. He also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr P had a Buyout Bond (pension) with Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited (Old 
Mutual). Old Mutual is now the responsibility of ReAssure and I will refer to it throughout 
this decision.
Mr P asked ReAssure to transfer his pension to another provider. He completed a Transfer 
Payment Release Form which ReAssure confirmed it received on 7 March 2022. ReAssure 
disinvested the pension the next day.
Mr P says his adviser contacted ReAssure on 21 March to query why the receiving scheme 
had not received the funds. He was told that ReAssure needed Mr Ps national insurance 
number before it could proceed. This was provided to ReAssure on that date. Mr P says 
that despite this the funds were not transferred to the receiving scheme until 13 April and 
were not available to be invested by the receiving scheme until 21 April.
Mr P complained to ReAssure. He said his funds had been too long out of the market and 
hed lost out as a result.
ReAssure investigated his complaint. It said it had received his transfer request through the 
Origo Transfer Service (OTS). OTS is described as an electronic pipework that lets 
connected businesses swiftly and easily transfer customer funds from one platform to 
another. The OTS request had not included Mr Ps national insurance number and as a 
result the transfer payment couldnt be made until that information had been received. 
ReAssure said it sent an email on 8 March requesting this information but hadnt received 
the missing information until 21 March.
ReAssure acknowledged that due to high demands on its service, the pension transfer 
(after it had received the national insurance number) had been delayed. It said it should 
have taken no longer than ten working days from the date it received the missing 
information. ReAssure apologised for this and sent Mr P a cheque for £200 to compensate 
him for the delays and errors.
ReAssure subsequently investigated whether Mr P had suffered any financial loss as a 
result of what happened. It concluded that he had not suffered any financial loss. ReAssure 
also sent Mr P a further cheque for £125 because it said it had taken it too long to complete 
its assessment of whether hed incurred any financial loss.
Mr P was not satisfied with what ReAssure said. He complained to our service. He also 
said:
His adviser had provided ReAssure with his national insurance number on 19   
February 2022;
If ReAssure didnt have the national insurance number why did it go ahead and 
disinvest the pension on 8 March 2022?
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. He thought there was insufficient evidence to 
show that ReAssure had requested the national insurance number on 8 March. It hadnt 
been able to provide a copy of the email showing to whom it was sent nor the date and 
time.
Mr P said his advisers had searched their systems and there was no record of the email 
ReAssure said it had sent.
Our investigator said it shouldnt have taken more than two days to resolve the national 
insurance number query. If that had happened he said the transfer date wouldve been 16 
March 2022 and the funds should have arrived with the receiving scheme on 21 March and 
been invested by 22 March. He thought ReAssure should rework its financial loss 
calculation using 22 March as the date of investment. Our investigator also thought 
ReAssure should increase the amount of compensation it had paid to Mr P for distress and 
inconvenience from £325 to £500 (in total).
Mr P didnt agree. By way of summary, he said
ReAssure should not have disinvested the funds until it had received his national 
insurance number  which was 21 March;
the method ReAssure had used to calculate his financial loss was incorrect. It was 
not reasonable to assess loss using the change in value of the new funds which 
were not invested on the same risk basis as the funds had been with ReAssure; and
£500 was not enough compensation for the poor customer service hed 
experienced.
ReAssure also didnt agree. It said, by way of summary:
It had valued Mr Ps policy following receipt of the OTS request - in line with its 
normal procedures;
It had attempted to get the national insurance number on 8 March and there was no 
reason to doubt that the email had been sent. It had also attempted to make 
telephone contact;
The documentation about the national insurance number had not been provided 
until 21 March;
The funds should have been released on 4 April 2022 (ten business days after 21 
March). Mr P hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of this delay; and
It had paid Mr P £325 for trouble and upset which it thought was fair.
Because the parties did not agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transfer valueIve read the Policy conditions provided by ReAssure. Condition 10 deals with 
Transfers. It provides as follows:
The Policys transfer value will be determined by multiplying the number of 
units allocated to the Policy by the unit price following receipt of your written 
request and the last of our requirements at our Head Office.
The requirements referred to in this Condition had been outlined in ReAssures 
letter dated 8 February 2022 addressed to Mr Ps advisor. It said:
Because the value of the policy moves up and down in line with the stock 
market, the current value is not guaranteed and we will re-calculate it on the 
day after we receive all the documents weve requested.
There was then a section entitled  What do I need to do? ReAssure said that 
before it could transfer Mr Ps pension he would have to complete and return the 
enclosed form. Section one of the form included a space for Mr P to insert his 
national insurance number  it was blank on the form. The guidance stated that if 
any information was incorrect or missing Mr P should amend the form. Having 
looked at the completed form, I can see that the national insurance number was not 
filled in on the form.
When ReAssure received the application to transfer, it went ahead and calculated 
the transfer value  even though it says there was missing information. The pension 
was disinvested on 8 March. So, Ive considered whether ReAssure acted fairly and 
reasonably when it did that  rather than wait until it received documentation about 
Mr Ps national insurance number.
Mr P says ReAssure already had his national insurance number. His adviser 
included it on correspondence dated 19 February  a copy of which has been 
provided to our service. So, Mr P disputes that there was missing information - and 
on that basis he thought the transfer could have proceeded without any delay.
ReAssure received the transfer request through OTS. As mentioned above that 
system is designed to facilitate the swift and easy transfer of funds. It also means 
that transfers can reasonably be expected to be completed within ten business 
days. ReAssure says that its approach, when it receives an OTS request is to 
calculate the final value as soon as it receives the transfer request. The reason why 
it takes that approach is because it says that is the date the customer wants the 
transfer process to start. It treats all its customers in the same way.
The industry guidance indicates that the transfer process should take no more than 
ten business days. It says that businesses should proactively seek any missing 
information during this period  so that overall the ten day period is not exceeded.
Having considered everything, Ive provisionally decided, on balance, its fair and 
reasonable to say that ReAssure used the correct transfer value here. I say that 
because the transfer value was obtained at the start of the OTS process - thats in 
line with ReAssures normal procedures. Its also in line with what Mr P might 
reasonably have expected to happen when he made the application to transfer. And, Mr P says ReAssure had everything it needed to start the process at that date 
(including his national insurance number).
Im also persuaded that had Mr P been aware of the requirement to send 
documentation about his national insurance number he would have provided it 
straightaway  which was what he did do on 21 March. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable to say that, in any event, ReAssure couldve received the missing 
information within the ten day period.
ReAssure received the OTS application on 7 March. In line with its usual process 
the pension was disinvested the next day  and thats the amount that was 
transferred to the new provider.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied, on balance, that ReAssure acted 
fairly and reasonably when it transferred £386,389.18 to the new pension provider.
What date should the transfer have been completed?
ReAssure has provided copies of its internal records which indicate that it tried to 
telephone the receiving scheme on 8 March to request the national insurance 
number  but when that was unsuccessful its records show it sent an email to the 
receiving scheme. Unfortunately the records dont show what address the email was 
sent to and Mr Ps advisers say theres no record of receipt of any such email. 
Theres also no record of any proactive steps having been taken by ReAssure to 
follow up for receipt of the information.
Mr Ps advisers contacted ReAssure on 21 March to find out why there was a delay 
and it was only then that they became aware of the missing information and 
provided it straightaway.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded, on balance, ReAssure has 
provided sufficient evidence to show the address it sent the email of 8 March to. 
Theres also no evidence of any proactive follow up by ReAssure in the period after 
8 March 2022 seeking the missing information. Ive noted that once Mr Ps advisers 
became aware of the issue on 21 March, they provided the missing information 
immediately. Ive no reason to believe that the position would have been different if 
theyd received the email of 8 March thats been referred to.
So, Im currently persuaded, on balance its fair and reasonable to say that 7 March 
2022 (the date of receipt of Mr Ps application) should be taken as the date when 
the ten day period, referred to in the industry guidance, could reasonably have 
started.
Ive no reason to believe, given the fact that OTS was being used here, that the 
transfer wouldnt have been completed within ten business days. And, even if as 
ReAssure says it needed more documentation about the national insurance 
number, I think it could have been more proactive when trying to obtain that. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable to say that the transfer process couldve been 
completed within the ten day period. That means, I think the transfer shouldve 
reasonably been completed by 21 March 2022.Financial Loss
ReAssure acknowledges there was a delay here and has carried out a calculation to 
assess whether Mr P incurred any financial loss as a result.
ReAssure says its reasonable to have expected the transfer to have been 
completed ten days after 21 March 2022 (the date it received the national insurance 
documentation)  which was 4 April.
For the reasons set out above I think the transfer should reasonably have concluded 
ten business days after 7 March 2022, which was 21 March 2022.
Its likely that the new investments would have been made within the same 
timescales as actually happened  which was four business days after the date of 
receipt of the funds. So I think that the calculation of loss should assume the new 
investments were made on 25 March 2022.
Ive also noted that ReAssure has based its calculations on the transfer value - 
£386,389.18.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that that value should be used in the 
calculation of loss.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think ReAssure should treat 21 March 2022 as the date 
when the transfer should have completed. If that had happened its reasonable to 
expect that the funds wouldve been invested in the same way (the new 
investments), as happened when they were actually received and within the same 
timeframes (four business days after receipt).
Mr P says that when assessing his loss, its not reasonable to compare one 
providers funds against another. He says the new investments were lower risk than 
the funds he held with ReAssure. So, he thinks thats not a fair and reasonable 
basis on which to calculate his loss.
When considering how to put things right here, Ive thought about what needs to be 
done to put Mr P, so far as is possible, back into the position he wouldve been in if 
the transfer had been made within the 10 day timescale. For that reason, I think its 
fair and reasonable when calculating Mr Ps loss to assume that he would still have 
made the new investments - but to assume that he would have made those 
investments at the earlier date.
Ive noted that after the transfer value was received the new investments were 
made on 21 April 2022 (4 business days after the date of receipt). Its reasonable to 
assume that if the transfer had been received on 21 March 2022 the new 
investments wouldve been made within the same timeframes (25 March 2022).
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided that ReAssure should 
rework its loss calculations based on the transfer value of £386,389.18. It should 
assess what the change in value of the new investments would have been if the 
new investments had started on 25 March 2022 rather than 21 April 2022.If the number of units in the new investments that could have been purchased on 25 
March 2022 is higher, ReAssure should make arrangements with Mr Ps advisors to 
pay for these additional units to be added to his new investments. If the number of 
units that could have been purchased is less, Mr P would not have suffered any 
financial loss and ReAssure does not need to take any further action.
It is the case that what happened here caused distress and inconvenience to Mr P. 
ReAssure has acknowledged that. It says it has already paid him £325 (in total) by 
way of compensation. Our investigator didnt think that was enough given the 
lengthy delays. He thought ReAssure should pay  Mr P £500 (in total) for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. Having considered everything I agree 
with what our investigator said. I dont think £325 is enough compensation for what 
happened here. I think ReAssure should pay Mr P an additional £175 (£500 in total) 
for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about ReAssure Life Limited. I intend to require it to take the following 
actions:
ReAssure Life Limited should re-work its assessment of loss calculation on 
the basis that the transfer value was £386,389.18 and the new investments 
were purchased on 25 March 2022.
o If the number of units in the new investments that could have been 
purchased on 25 March 2022 is higher than the number of units that 
were purchased on 21 April 2022, ReAssure Life Limited should 
make arrangements with Mr Ps advisors to pay for these additional 
units to be added to his new investments.
o If the number of units that could have been purchased is less, 
ReAssure Life Limited does not need to take any further action.
and
Pay Mr P an additional £175 (£500 in total) by way of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.
ReAssure responded to my provisional decision. It said it had noted some confusion in 
relation to the email dated 8 March 2022 and the address it was sent to. It provided further 
evidence which showed the address that the email had been sent to. It didnt make any 
further comments.
Mr P also responded to my provisional decision. He said, by way of summary:
ReAssures own policies and procedures stated that it would value the policy 
on the day after it received all the documents. It had acted outside of this 
policy and procedure. He felt this important point had been ignored. 
ReAssure should not have disinvested his pension until 21 March.
ReAssure did have the national insurance number since it was sent to it on 
19 February.
It was strange that despite numerous requests ReAssure had only now 
provided a copy of the email of 8 March. The email appeared to have been 
sent to an incorrect address at the receiving scheme. The receiving scheme 
had confirmed it hadnt received the email.
ReAssure never admitted to him that it had delayed the transfer.Hed spent considerable periods of time trying to get the issue resolved. The 
compensation offered was not enough.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure has now provided a copy of the email it says it sent to the new provider on 8 
March. Id just comment that this document shouldve been provided to our service much 
earlier in the process. Nevertheless, it does show that ReAssure did request information 
about Mr Ps national insurance number on 8 March 2022. The receiving scheme has 
provided Mr P with a statement to say it never received the email.
In my provisional decision I had commented on this email  the lack of evidence that it had 
been sent, the lack of any proactive follow up by ReAssure and the speed with which Mr Ps 
advisers had acted as soon as they became aware the information was required. So, having 
considered everything again, although there is now evidence that the email was sent (albeit 
Mr P still disputes that), I havent changed my view that ReAssure could have done more to 
proactively seek the information. If it had done that I think the transfer could still have been 
completed within ten working days of the date when the application was received.
In my provisional decision, I also considered what Mr P told us about the terms and 
conditions for his policy which provided as follows:
The Policys transfer value will be determined by multiplying the number of 
units allocated to the Policy by the unit price following receipt of your written 
request and the last of our requirements at our Head Office.
When commenting on the terms and conditions, I considered what Mr P had said about the 
fact ReAssure had already been provided with the national insurance number several weeks 
earlier. Mr P thought it shouldnt have been asking for this information again. 
I also commented on the fact that it is not unusual for a pension provider to disinvest the 
policy as soon as it receives a transfer application. ReAssure says it does that because 
thats what its customers would reasonably expect it to do - the value could rise or fall after 
that date. ReAssure said it treated all its customers the same way. I thought that was fair 
and reasonable.
 
Taking all of these matters into account, I was persuaded, on balance it was fair and 
reasonable to say that 7 March 2022 (the date of receipt of Mr Ps application) should be 
taken as the date when the ten day period, referred to in the industry guidance, could 
reasonably have started. I remain of that view.
ReAssure had been sent the national insurance number before 7 March. Even if further 
evidence of the national insurance number was still required, I thought it shouldve 
proactively sought to obtain it  so that overall the transfer could have concluded within ten 
working days. Neither party has provided any new or additional information that persuades 
me to change that view.In its final response letter ReAssure accepted that after it received details of the national 
insurance number on 21 March it had taken it too long to complete the transfer. It said the 
transfer itself shouldve been completed no later than ten working days after that date. 
I also thought that ten working days was a reasonable period of time to complete the 
transfer. Thats in line with industry guidance. But, in my provisional decision I said the ten 
day period should start on 7 March. The transfer shouldve completed by 21 March and been 
reinvested by the new provider on 25 March 2022. I remain of that view. I think that is the 
basis upon which ReAssure should re-work its assessment of financial loss.
Mr P doesnt think that £500 (in total) is sufficient compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced here. Hes referred to the many hours that hes spent trying to 
get matters resolved and he thinks he should be compensated based on his professional 
hourly rate.
When thinking about compensation for distress and inconvenience we take into account the 
individual circumstances of each case. Compensation for distress and inconvenience is to 
reflect the impact on Mr P and seek to compensate him  rather than seeking to punish 
ReAssure. Whilst I have taken into account the many hours Mr Ps told us he had to spend 
trying to get this matter sorted out, this service does not make awards based on hourly rates. 
I thought Mr P had been inconvenienced here and had to make a lot of extra effort to sort 
things out. For that reason I thought the £325 which ReAssure had offered was not enough. I 
thought this should be increased to £500 (in total). I remain of that view.
So for the reasons set out above Ive not changed my view, as set out in my provisional 
decision, about how this complaint should be resolved nor the actions that I require 
ReAssure to take here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about ReAssure Life Limited. 
I now require it to take the following actions:
ReAssure Life Limited should re-work its assessment of loss calculation on 
the basis that the transfer value was £386,389.18 and the new investments 
were purchased on 25 March 2022:
If the number of units in the new investments that could have 
been purchased on 25 March 2022 is higher than the number 
of units that were purchased on 21 April 2022, ReAssure Life 
Limited should make arrangements with Mr Ps advisors to 
pay for these additional units to be added to his new 
investments.
If the number of units that could have been purchased is less, 
ReAssure Life Limited does not need to take any further 
action.
and
Pay Mr P an additional £175 (£500 in total) by way of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman