DRN-2351033
The complaint
Mr B mainly complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (very) 
failed to communicate properly with him about the interest added to his account at the end of 
the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period. He told us his complaint concerned the application 
of BNPL interest, lack of appropriate communication and verys refusal of his offer made to 
immediately pay off the BNPL amount. 
Mr B also complained that the way very allocated payments to his account was unethical 
and not in the spirit of fairness. And Mr B was unhappy with the length of time it took very to 
respond to his complaint. 
What happened
Mr B brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with very and one of 
our investigators looked into what had happened.  
She thought that very had acted in line with the BNPL terms and conditions when it added 
interest to Mr Bs account and she didnt feel that very acted wrongly or unfairly. 
Overall, our investigators view was that very had treated Mr B fairly as a customer and 
reached a fair and reasonable outcome when dealing with his complaint, despite the delayed 
response. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. 
I dont uphold this complaint and so Im not going to tell very to take any action. Ill explain 
why I say this.
Mr B took out a credit agreement with very in July 2015. This explained that BNPL was an 
option which allowed customers to benefit from interest free purchases, so long as the full 
balance of the item purchased was paid off within 12 months.
The agreement said:
Interest accruing during deferred payment period: The BNPL Transaction will accrue interest 
from the order date and will be compounded every 28 days but this interest will not show on 
your account until the first statement after the expiry of the deferred payment period. The 
BNPL Transaction will be charged to your account on the order date and will become due for 
payment on the first statement for which the payment due date occurs after the end of the 
deferred payment period
And the agreement mentioned that the interest rate was 44.9% variable. 
The statement very sent Mr B date 6 July 2019 included the information that his next 
account statement would include his BNPL balance of £759 and it said that he could avoid 
BNPL interest by paying the balance by 23 August 2019.
I've taken into account everything that Mr B told us about the payments he made to his 
account. But it seems not to be in dispute, given what Mr B has said, and verys records 
confirm this, that he didnt pay enough to clear his BNPL balance by the due date. 
I appreciate that hes been charged a significant amount of interest as a result of missing the 
payment due date. But Mr B seemed happy to sign up to the account terms and conditions 
when he opened his account and, as far as I can see, very has operated the account in 
accordance with its terms. 
The fact that Mr B told us hed made overpayments on the account previously doesnt affect 
my view on this point  it seems those payments were applied to the account in line with the 
way very had explained this would happen (and as set out on his monthly statements). So 
I dont think Mr B had any reason to expect this would impact on the BNPL interest. 
Taking all this into account, I cant fairly say that very wasnt entitled to add the BNPL 
interest to Mr Bs account, when it did this in line with the account terms and conditions. 
Of course, very still had to act in a fair way and ensure that it treated Mr B reasonably  and 
Ive thought carefully about this. 
The way the account worked was set out in the credit agreement Mr B signed. There were 
reminders about how to avoid paying BNPL interest on verys website which I think Mr B 
would likely have been able to see when making purchases. Information about this was also 
included each time on his monthly account statements  and very drew Mr Bs attention 
specifically to the pending payment deadline around 6 weeks or so before the BNPL interest 
was due to be added to his account. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B had problems making payments to his BNPL account when using 
verys online payment portal. But this wasnt the only payment option  very also offered a 
freephone number. 
And whilst I've noted Mr Bs concern that when he did speak to very it was over the weekend 
and he agreed to pay straightaway, I cant fairly say that very didnt act ethically and fairly 
because, by that time, the BNPL interest had already been added to the account. 
I can understand that from Mr Bs point of view a day either way shouldnt make a difference. 
But, I think Mr B had ample opportunity to make his repayment in good time to avoid the 
BNPL interest charge. And despite what Mr B has said about verys email communication 
emails being misleading, I dont feel Ive seen enough overall to be able to say that very 
acted towards Mr B in any way that wasnt fair and reasonable when it charged him BNPL 
interest.
Looked at overall, I cant fairly say that Mr B has lost out as a result of anything that very did 
wrong or as a result of it having acted unfairly or unreasonably  including when it 
responded to his complaint. So theres nothing that it needs to do to put things right. Mr B has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that he feels very strongly about his complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points 
that affect the outcome of his complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman