DRN-3501377
The complaint
Mr E complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycards decision to close his 
credit card account. 
What happened
Mr E tried to set up the Barclaycard app but it wouldnt work, so he contacted Barclaycard to 
find out why. Initially Barclaycard said they werent sure, but then explained it was because 
Mr Es credit card account had been closed as the account was dormant. 
Mr E wasnt happy that he hadnt been contacted about the closure of the account. So he 
complained to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard said they had sent a letter to Mr E in February 2021 saying his account would 
close on 30 April 2021 unless he took action to opt-out of the closure. Barclaycard also said 
they had sent a text message and an email to Mr E. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator considered Mr Es complaint. She 
said, in summary, Barclaycard had closed Mr Es account in line with the terms and 
conditions and the letters about the closure had been issued to the correct address. 
Mr E maintained he hadnt received the letters from Barclaycard and felt wed taken their 
word for it that theyd contacted him. He also said he was unhappy with the service he 
received when he called Barclaycard. 
As Mr E didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision. Ive 
set out my findings again here and they form part of this decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Es account, Barclaycard are entitled to close Mr Es 
account giving two months written notice. Ive also considered whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Barclaycard to close the account in the particular circumstances of Mr Es 
case. 
Mr E had this account for a number of years. According to Barclaycards records Mr E had 
not used the account since 2015  so about six years. Its not unusual for financial 
businesses to close accounts that have not been used in a long time. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclaycard to say they were going to close Mr Es account unless he told 
them he wanted to keep the account open. 
Barclaycards records show a letter was issued to Mr Es address in February 2021 giving 
two months notice that the account would be closed. Barclaycard have also said they 
wouldve sent a text message to Mr E. And Mr E says he was also told hed been sent an 
email. 
Ive seen a sample copy of the letter sent to Mr E in February 2021. This letter explained 
what Mr E would need to do if he wanted the account to remain open. 
Mr E says he didnt get the letter sent by the bank. But Barclaycards records show it was 
sent and to the address Mr E gave us. So I dont know why he didnt receive it, but I havent 
seen anything to suggest Barclaycard are responsible for him not getting it, which means Im 
satisfied theyve fulfilled their obligations in telling him. 
Mr E says he didnt get any emails or text messages from Barclaycard either. Hes 
particularly disappointed with their decision to close the account as he was a long-standing 
customer and feels Barclaycard shouldve spoken to him to make sure hed received their 
letter about the closure. But I dont think they were obliged to have called him  particularly 
given theyd sent him a letter. In relation to the email and text message, I dont think this 
makes a difference to the outcome of Mr Es complaint. I say this because as Ive already 
explained, Im satisfied Barclaycard gave the required notice of the closure to Mr E by the 
sending the letter. 
Mr E was also unhappy with the service he received when he contacted Barclaycard to find 
out what had happened to his account. When Mr E first contacted Barclaycard, the member 
of staff couldnt see that his account had been closed and so didnt tell him this is what had 
happened.  
Ive listened to a later call made the same day as Mr E said this was the particular call he 
was unhappy with when he first complained to Barclaycard. 
While I understand Mr E doesnt agree with the information he was given during this phone 
call, the call was handled appropriately and the correct information was given about the 
closure of the account. And even though the first person he spoke to didnt tell him his 
account was closed, Mr E received the correct information later the same day. So I dont 
think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of his complaint. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed, but I havent found Barclaycard have treated him 
unfairly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E did not respond. 
Barclaycard responded to say they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman