DRN-2329823
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that a recent exercise to provide refunds of overcharging carried out 
by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) on foreign exchange transactions between 2010 
and 2014 hasnt paid a large enough refund, or got the money to them quickly enough.
What happened
Mr G has brought this complaint on behalf of himself and Mrs G.
Mr G said that RBS had reported itself to the FCA because its foreign exchange unit was 
apparently overcharging. He complains about the remediation exercise that RBS is currently 
running, to put this overcharging right.
Mr G said that the bank had told him it had overcharged him, and it owed him money, but it 
hadnt paid. He thought it should pay what it owed now, and make a further payment in 
respect of the number of foreign currency transactions hed made. 
Mr G also makes a more general complaint about rate fixing he says RBS has engaged in, 
which he says affected the overall exchange rates for everyone changing money between 
2008 and 2013. Our service is addressing that complaint separately.
RBS said that it had found a problem with the exchange rates it had applied between 2010 
and 2014. It had checked the transactions Mr G had made during this time, and it had 
worked out a modest refund that he was due. It didnt think that any transactions outside of 
this time had been affected. And it said that debit and credit card transactions werent 
affected at all by this problem, because the exchange rate for those wasnt set by RBS. 
RBS paid Mr G a total of £50 in compensation, and said it would forward the refund he was 
due.
Mr G wanted RBS to tell him the dates of what happened so he could work out for himself if 
he was overcharged. He accepted that debit and credit card transactions werent affected by 
this problem, but said hed exchanged large sums during this time, so he thought he should 
get a bigger refund. He said he was expecting significant compensation.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service 
couldnt tell the bank to make public information about rates previously charged. That 
doesnt form part of our role. But she said RBS was contacting affected customers anyway. 
Our investigator said that Mr Gs credit and debit card transactions werent affected by what 
had gone wrong. RBS had accepted that some of Mr Gs transactions were affected, and it 
was going to pay him around £9 that it thought hed been overcharged. Mr G wanted to 
appoint an accountant, and he was free to do that if he wished, but our service couldnt ask 
RBS to pay for that for him. 
Our investigator sent Mr G the information hed requested on the transactions which RBS 
thought were affected. Our investigator thought RBS had provided a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Gs complaint, and she said she wouldnt ask it to do more.
Mr G didnt agree, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision covers only Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about additional costs for foreign 
exchange rate transactions executed by RBS on behalf of Mr and Mrs G between 2010 and 
2014. I have written to Mr G separately about the complaint he makes about rate 
manipulation by RBS. 
Mr G says that he was expecting a larger refund, because there were a lot of transfers from 
this account to overseas, during the time that exchange rates were affected. But RBS has 
said that the additional amount which was charged on each transaction was very small 
indeed. And its shown Mr G the figures that its calculation is based on. I dont think RBS has 
to do more than this. 
I know that Mr G wants RBS to publicise what has happened, but our service can only look 
at the individual issues raised in his complaint. Nevertheless, I understand that RBS is 
contacting all affected customers. 
Mr G has also said he wants an accountant to consider the figures that RBS has provided. 
And he wants RBS to pay for that. Mr G can certainly check the information that RBS has 
provided if he wishes to do so, but I dont think its reasonable to ask RBS to pay the costs of 
any accountant or other professional that Mr G chooses to engage to check its figures. 
I understand that Mr G also feels that this refund shouldve been paid more quickly, but I 
think that RBS is currently engaged in a very large exercise to check and issue refunds. I 
dont think its unreasonable for this to take a little time to complete. I think RBS has already 
paid the compensation that it offered.
I know that something has gone wrong here. RBS has accepted that. And I understand that 
Mr G has been upset by this issue, he feels that RBS has been dishonest. But I think that 
RBS is already putting right whats gone wrong in this case. And because of that, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman