DRN-2895715
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with a 
balance transfer application.
What happened
Mr H asked Barclaycard to carry out two balance transfers onto his credit card account. He 
says there were a series of problems from opening the account to the transfers, and that he 
was given incorrect information about the repayment amounts. Mr H says he spent hours on 
the telephone to Barclaycard trying to sort matters out and estimates spending about six to 
eight hours on it. He would like Barclaycard to compensate him for that time at his 
professional hourly charging rate of £150 an hour and says the compensation offer doesnt 
go far enough.
Barclaycard accepts it made a number of mistake and has apologised and said it will speak 
to its staff member involved. It says it has paid £125 in total compensation for the errors and 
accepts it didnt tell Mr H that it carried out checks on the initial application.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and out investigator thought Barclaycard had paid an 
appropriate compensation amount. The investigator explained that we wouldnt award 
compensation based on a professional charging rate and didnt think Mr H had suffered any 
financial loss as a result of what took place.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he has now paid a balance transfer fee of just over 
£83 to a different provider as he lost confidence in Barclaycard. He says it lost his 
application with his personal details on it and says it should pay for the balance transfer fee 
of £83. Mr H questions how someone with vulnerabilities would have dealt with what took 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount.
There is no question here that Barclaycard made a number of mistakes in dealing with what 
ought to have been a straightforward matter. There is no need for me to repeat those 
mistakes as they are well known to the parties. But I accept Mr H was caused frustration and 
inconvenience and spent a significant amount of time trying to sort matters out. Im satisfied 
that Mr H didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of what took place and that Barclaycard 
has fairly apologised for its mistakes.
The key issue here is the level of compensation. I appreciate Mr H says that should be 
calculated in accordance with his hourly professional charging rate. But I have to disagree 
with Mr H and make clear that he wasnt acting in his professional capacity here or providing 
a professional service to Barclaycard. And it would be unfair to order Barclaycard to 
calculate compensation in that way. Im satisfied that the compensation award is fair and 
reasonable and fairly reflects what took place here. And I also make clear that its not our 
role to punish a business as we are not Barclaycards regulator.
I can see that Barclaycard did sort matters out within a relatively short time period and that it 
was Mr Hs choice to transfer the balance to a different business. I cant, in those 
circumstances, fairly order Barclaycard to reinburse the cost involved.
Overall, I accept Barclaycard made a number of mistakes that its fairly apologised for and 
find that its paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I have not seen any evidence 
that Barclaycard lost Mr Hs application and I can only consider the impact on him and not, 
as he suggests, of a more vulnerable person.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman