DRN-3417054
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service shes received from Nationwide Building Society when 
transferring part of her ISA to another business. 
What happened
Ms H held an ISA with Nationwide. In March 2020 she arranged to transfer £20,000 from the 
ISA to another business (B1) as she was concerned that sum of the balances in her 
accounts with Nationwide were higher than the amount that would be covered by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
B1 incorrectly requested a transfer of the full balance of her ISA from Nationwide. Ms H then 
complained to Nationwide when she discovered that the balance of the ISA was missing. 
She said that she hadnt been made aware of the transfer and wanted them to reopen her 
account with all the loyalty benefits shed previously received. 
Nationwide didnt uphold her complaint as they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They 
thought the fault lay with B1 as theyd incorrectly requested a transfer of the full amount and 
said that they had sent Ms H a letter confirming the transfer had taken place. They offered to 
reopen her account, but Ms H later declined their offer as she thought the interest rate they 
were offering was derisory.
Ms H then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Nationwide acted 
correctly on the instructions they were given by B1 and noted that theyd taken extra steps to 
clarify with B1 that a full transfer should be made. He also noted that Nationwide had offered 
Ms H the option of opening another ISA, but she didnt want to move her money back at the 
time. 
Ms H didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
Shed received a letter from Nationwide on 16 October 2020 stating that shed 
accepted the proposed outcome but at the time she hadnt heard anything from them.
She wanted to see time-stamped evidence of the letter Nationwide said they sent to 
her advising the account was closed, as she believed it was never sent.
When B1 returned her money theyd taken by mistake, she asked Nationwide to 
reopen her original ISA, but they refused and instead offered her a new ISA with very 
low interest instead. The investigators statement that she didnt want to move her 
money back wasnt true, shed declined because of the low rate of interest being 
offered.
She wanted to know what evidence B1 gave to Nationwide to justify confirmation of 
the process to close her account and what the reason was for refusing to reactivate 
it.
Throughout the period of her complaint had been going on, Nationwide had refuted 
any guilt and their customer service had been very poor. She thought Nationwide 
owed her compensation for the interest shed lost, the distress theyd caused her and 
an apology for their actions.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this will not be the 
answer that Ms H wants but I hope she can understand my reasoning. I dont think its in 
question that B1 made an error when they requested a full transfer of Ms Hs ISA instead of 
a partial transfer. This has been the subject of a separate complaint where B1 accepted their 
error and compensated Ms H. 
Ive thought about Nationwides actions. I appreciate that the letter Ms H received on 16 
October 2020 said shed accepted their outcome and she thinks that at the time she hadnt 
heard anything from them. But from what Ive seen Nationwide sent this letter to her after the 
conversations she had with them on 7 October and 8 October. So, I dont think they did 
anything wrong by sending the letter confirming their understanding of the conversations 
theyd had. 
Ive then considered Nationwides role in the transfer of Ms Hs ISA. Ms H has said that she 
didnt receive the letter Nationwide said they sent to her regarding the transfer. Nationwide 
have provided evidence to show that they sent the letter and Im satisfied they did write to 
Ms H to let her know about the account closure. I cant fairly hold Nationwide liable for any 
issues Ms H may have had with not receiving post  that would be a matter for Royal Mail.
From what Ive seen, four transfer requests were sent by B1. There were three transfer 
requests initially sent, two for £20,000 and one for the full amount. Nationwide processed 
one of the requests for £20,000 and rejected the other two. However, they then received 
another request to transfer the full balance. They queried this with B1 and were told to 
proceed with the transfer for the full amount. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
they acted inappropriately when they actioned the full transfer of the ISA and closed the 
account.
After the error was identified, Nationwide offered to reopen the ISA, but Ms H declined due 
to the rate of interest being offered. Ive reviewed the historic interest rate information for the 
Loyalty ISA. It shows that with effect from 1 May 2020, the interest rate reduced from 1.1% 
to 0.25%. At the time of the account closure on 27 August 2020, the interest was still 0.25%.
I appreciate that when Ms H had the opportunity to reopen the ISA, she wasnt happy with 
the rate of interest that was being offered. But from what Ive seen, it was the same rate that 
was being applied prior to the account being closed. Therefore, I cant see that shes been 
disadvantaged. Nationwide have confirmed that a rate of 0.5% now applies to all Loyalty 
ISAs. There is no beneficial rate of interest based on how long a consumer has been a 
member of the society, so Ms H can choose to reopen her ISA at this rate if she wishes.
I fully appreciate that Ms H has been caused distress and inconvenience by the error that 
occurred, but because Im not persuaded that Nationwide have done anything wrong, I dont 
think I can fairly ask them to offer her any compensation. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.  
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman