DRN-1558146
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim after he was 
involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr S took out motor insurance cover with Aviva. In December 2018, Mr S 
was involved in a road traffic accident. He said he swerved to avoid another car that had 
pulled out in front of him. But in doing this he collided with another car. The same day, Mr S 
made a claim against his motor insurance policy with Aviva. He said he was told they would 
defend his claim on a non-fault basis. The third-party driver (TP) also made a claim against 
their motor insurance policy. The car that pulled out in front of Mr S drove away without 
giving their details.
In June 2019, when Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with another insurer. The 
information he gave them was based on his having a non-fault claim. But the new insurer 
said theyd cancel his insurance as the information hed given was incorrect as Aviva had 
noted the claim as a fault claim. They agreed for the policy to continue but they increased Mr 
Ss policy premium.
Mr S complained to Aviva and said that hed been spoken to rudely. Aviva said under the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, they could settle the claim on his behalf. But that they 
should have discussed Mr Ss liability for the accident with him. Aviva offered Mr S £200 to 
compensate for poor service. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Avivas response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that it wasnt our role to decide liability in an accident claim. But said 
Aviva should have told Mr S about the outcome of his accident claim, as this could have 
prevented the trouble and upset Mr S had with his new insurer. But she said the £200 
offered by Aviva was fair and reasonable in recognition of this.
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand that this accident and its consequences have had a significant impact 
on Mr S. But its not for me to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. In 
making my decision I need to consider whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
when making the decision on liability and how to settle the claim.I can see that Aviva, on the information given by Mr S, said they would look to defend the 
claim on a non-fault basis. And Aviva initially disputed M Ss liability for the claim to the TP. 
But the TPs account of the accident was that he was hit in the rear by Mr S while he was 
stationary. Avivas policy under General Conditions says:
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
In January 2019, Aviva accepted that Mr S was liable for the accident, and paid the amount 
of the claim to the TP. While I appreciate Mr Ss view, that the cause of the accident was the 
car that pulled out in front of him, I think Avivas conclusion was reasonable. It was the TP of 
the car that Mr S collided with that made a claim against his insurer. And It would be very 
difficult to prove the TP was at fault for the accident. And by accepting the TP claim when it 
did, Aviva avoided further costs and the possibility of court action.
 While I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in settling the TP claim. I do think they could have 
been clearer in their communications. Mr S was a young driver, experiencing his first 
accident claim. I think if Aviva had explained the process in more detail to him it would have 
prevented some confusion and upset. And they didnt let Mr S know that theyd accepted 
liability. But I can see that Aviva has accepted their service wasnt to the standard expected 
and have offered Mr S £200, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
I have looked to see what impact there would have been for Mr S if hed been made aware 
that he was being held liable for the accident, when the decision was made. In June 2019, 
when Mr S had to seek another insurer, he would have had to tell them he had a fault claim. 
And this would have been considered when the new insurer decided the premium Mr S 
would pay, as they have now done. So, I dont think there has been a financial loss to Mr S.
Mr S has also said he wasnt happy with the customer service he received from Aviva. And 
that theyd been rude to him. Ive listened to the call, and  I dont think this was the case. I 
can understand Mr Ss frustration, but I think the agent empathised with his situation. And 
explained what had happened and what they would do.
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
 My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman