DRN-1605336
 
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs F have complained about the way their motor insurer, Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited (Admiral), dealt with a claim that was made against their policy by a third 
party in relation to an accident they werent involved in. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L and Mrs F were notified of an accident they were alleged to have 
been involved in in March 2018. The told their motor insurer, Admiral, that they werent 
involved. 
The claim went on for some time and third party insurer told Admiral that it had instructed 
solicitors to pursue the claim in court. Admiral instructed its own solicitors but the third party 
ultimately dropped its claim in October 2019. 
Mr L and Mrs F complained to Admiral at various stages about delays and lack of updates. 
In their last complaint they said that:
Admiral had delayed confirming their non-involvement.
Admiral shouldve been more forceful in getting the claim closed.
They were getting conflicting stories from Admirals handler and the investigator 
about who was alleged to have been driving at the time of the accident. 
The third party had Mrs Fs name and they didnt know where it got it from.
They were unhappy about the lack of communication and updates. 
The claim had been ongoing for over five months and had affected their renewal 
premium and their no claims bonus (NCB) which had been reduced from 15 years to 
three. 
Admiral upheld their complaint in part and said it had delayed reviewing its assessors report. 
It paid them £100 in compensation for that and the lack of communication and updates 
regarding the process. It also accepted that despite them emailing three times, their emails 
hadnt been received despite the fact that theyd been sent to the correct address.  In terms 
of defending the claim it said it had collected evidence and was in a good position to prove 
their non-involvement but it wasnt up to it to finalise the claim but up to the third party. It said 
the conflicting information was mainly because the third party had changed solicitors and 
that it was the third party insurer that gave Mrs Fs name and this did not come from 
Admirals handler. But it agreed it had confused them in saying that Mr L was the driver 
initially instead of Mrs F. It said the NCB would be reinstated and the increased premium 
refunded as soon as the claim was closed. 
Mr L and Mrs F were unhappy about Admirals response and complained to us. They said 
that their 15 year no claims bonus (NCB) had been reduced to three while the claim was 
ongoing and wanted this reinstated and asked for a refund of the extra premium they had to 
pay. They wanted the claim closed as they said theyd provided enough evidence to show 
they werent involved in this accident. By the time the file was reviewed by our investigator it was confirmed that the third party had 
withdrawn its claim and Admiral also confirmed that it was closing its file and that there were 
no impending court proceedings. But Mr L and Mrs F still felt that Admirals last offer of £100 
wasnt enough for the stress they suffered. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said though he thought it was 
right for Admiral to investigate the claim before defending it, there were issues with 
communication that led to additional distress for Mr L and Mrs F. Among other things, he 
said though an assessor was instructed in November 2018 and statements obtained in 
December 2018, the report wasnt ready until February 2019 and not reviewed until March 
2019. He said Admiral should pay another £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
Mr L and Mrs F. 
Admiral didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it had no choice but to 
defend the claim and that the third party deciding to continue to pursue the claim and 
threatening to take it to court was out of its control. It said it also couldnt control the fact that 
the other side sent Mr L and Mrs F letters threatening court proceedings and that it wasnt 
until October 2019 that the other side confirmed it was no longer pursuing the claim and 
closing its file. It said the file had to stay open till then. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. 
Mr L and Mrs F have confirmed that Admiral has offered them a pro-rata refund of their 
premium since the claim was closed. Admirals file also states that their NCB status was 
changed to allowed on 1 October 2019. As these issues have now been resolved I wont 
comment on them further in my decision. 
The issues that remain for me to consider are around Admirals overall service and 
communication. From what Ive seen Mr L and Mrs F had raised a number of complaints 
throughout the claim but in this decision I am looking at the complaint raised in March 2019. 
For completeness though I will refer to events that happened since the start of the claim. 
Timeline of events
Admiral received the third party claim claiming damages for personal injury on 20 November 
2018. The accident was alleged to have taken place in March 2018. Mr L and Mrs F denied 
any involvement. On 22 November Admiral noted that the third party alleged that the car was 
being driven my someone other than Mr L and Mrs F. Mr L and Mrs F emailed Admiral on 27 
November 2018 saying this was the third time they tried to email over their version of events. 
Mrs F spoke to Admiral on 29 November and was told that the third party had actually 
named her as the driver. As Mr L is the registered keeper it was unclear how the third party 
got Mrs Fs details. 
There is a note in Admirals file in early December 2018 saying the third party was alleging 
that the driver was Mrs F. Around the same time the engineer Admiral instructed confirmed 
there was no damage to Mr L and Mrs Fs car that was consistent with the accident 
circumstances. Admiral then decided to obtain statements from Mr L and Mrs F to cover all angles. But it 
continued to dispute liability in the meantime. Around the same time the policy was up for 
renewal. The premium was around £750 higher than the previous year.
An independent assessor was instructed at the end of November 2018. I see that Admiral 
chased the report at the end of January 2019. The report was received at some point 
between 7 and 13 February which is when Admiral reviewed it and updated Mrs F about it. 
Mr L first complained about Admirals general service and lack of proactivity in December 
2018. Admiral accepted that his emails had been sent to the correct address but werent 
received. But it didnt think Mr L and Mrs F were being treated like criminals as they had 
alleged or that it hadnt been proactive. It offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr L and Mrs F complained again about the delays with the investigation report at the end of 
January 2019. Admiral apologised for the delay and offered a further £50.
Mr L and Mrs F complained again about not having any updates on 7 February 2019. The 
report was received by 8 January 2019. I cant see that Mr L or Mrs F were updated before 1 
March when Mr L called in for an update. 
A further update was given on 26 March to Mrs F to confirm that Admiral was still defending 
the claim. Mrs F was again frustrated by the lack of updates and raised a further complaint. 
A further £100 was paid to Mrs F as compensation.   
Admiral informed Mrs F that the other side said they would be taking the claim court in June 
2019 but by October 2019 the other side had confirmed it was no longer pursuing the claim. 
Delays and service
I agree that Admiral had no choice but to defend the claim. I think it was fair and reasonable 
and part of its role as Mr L and Mrs Fs insurer to gather as much evidence as possible to 
enable it to defend the claim against them. And I dont think Admiral had any control over 
whether the third party continued to pursue the claim or not. So I dont think the fact that it 
took until October 2019 for the third party to drop the claim was Admirals responsibility. 
I appreciate Mr L and Mrs F feel Admiral shouldve been more forceful but as I said above all 
it could do was continue to defend the claim- which is what it did. As the defendant insurer, 
its not for it to commence any proceedings or threaten to do so. It is the third partys claim 
after all. 
Mr L and Mrs F were unhappy to be originally told that the driver of their vehicle was 
someone not known to them and then to be told it was Mrs F. I think this confusion largely 
stems from the information the third party was providing to Admiral and it was again outside 
Admirals control. 
One of the reasons the third party continued to pursue the claim, however, was the fact that 
it had Mrs Fs name. And as she is not the registered keeper it is still unclear how the third 
party obtained this. There is nothing in the file Admiral has provided to me that shows that it 
was the one that provided this information and in its final response Admiral says Mrs Fs 
name was provided to it by the third party and it wasnt the other way round. Whatever the 
case I note that the third party did indeed drop the claim despite this, so Mr L and Mrs F 
didnt have to defend the claim in court. I appreciate that if it was Admiral that provided Mrs 
Fs name, which as I said Ive seen no evidence of, it would have added to Mr L and Mrs Fs 
distress as it may have prolonged the claim. However, I note that Admiral has so far paid Mr L and Mrs F £250 for the inconvenience it caused so even if it had been responsible I 
think the compensation it paid so far is sufficient. 
Mr L and Mrs F were unhappy about the lack of updates. As I said above Admiral had 
already compensated them at previous stages for this, £100 in December and £50 in 
January 2019. It also offered a further £100 for the delay in reviewing the assessors report. 
Our investigator didnt think this was enough and recommended another £100. I agree. I 
think bearing in mind that Admiral knew how much distress this was already causing Mr L 
and Mrs F in light of their previous complaints it should have made sure this was reviewed 
as soon as possible in order to prevent any further upset. Though I appreciate Admiral could 
do very little to stop the third party from pursuing the claim I think it shouldve still provided 
Mr L and Mrs F with updates, if that is what they requested, rather than wait for them to 
chase it- which is what happened on numerous occasions. I therefore agree with our 
investigator that a further £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Admiral Insurance Company Limited, must pay Mr L and Mrs F a 
further £100 compensation in addition to what its already paid, for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them. It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr L and Mrs F accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L and Mrs F how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr L and Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman