DRN-2618846
The complaint
Mr M says Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy Mr M took out to cover a hire purchase 
agreement in September 2006. Mr M applied for the PPI during a phone call.
The policy cost £14.40 per month. And the monthly benefit would have been paid for up to 
12 months per claim if Mr M was made involuntarily redundant, or for up to 24 months per 
claim if Mr M was too unwell to work.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Black Horse had to let Mr M know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent 
before it added PPI to his account. Black Horse says it would have done this, but Mr M says 
the policy was sold without his knowledge.
The sale took place a long time ago, so Black Horse hasnt been able to provide a recording 
of the phone call. That means, I cant know precisely what would have been said, but 
Black Horse has provided a call script it says its representatives were advised to follow 
during telephone sales around the time Mr Ms policy was sold. I think its likely this was 
broadly followed. 
Looking at the script, the wording prompted the representative to describe the PPI as 
optional and to ask, Do you want to go ahead with the product we have recommended?. I 
think this makes it clear the policy was optional and that Mr M would have needed to agree 
to take PPI before it was added to his account. 
In addition, Mr Ms hire purchase application had already been accepted by the time the 
policy was sold, so I think he would have known that PPI was an optional product. I also 
think its likely Mr M would have noticed the additional cost being debited from his account. 
So, if Mr M hadnt agreed to the PPI, I would have expected him to have queried this with 
Black Horse much sooner. For these reasons, I think Mr M was aware he had a choice about 
whether to take PPI and that he chose to take it at the time. 
Both parties agree that Black Horse recommended the policy to Mr M. That means 
Black Horse had to check the policy was suitable for Mr M, as well as give him enough 
information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, the policy appears to have 
been suitable for him. I say this because, from the information I have, Mr M was eligible for 
the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the terms which might have 
made it harder for him to claim, such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or unusual 
employment circumstances.
Mr M says he was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if he was 
off sick from work. Mr M also says he would have received redundancy pay if he lost his job. 
But Mr Ms sick pay and redundancy pay would only have helped him for a limited time. The 
PPI would have paid out on top of Mr Ms sick pay and potentially for a lot longer  up to 24 
months if he was too unwell to work. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr M if 
he fell on hard times, particularly if he was off work for longer than six months, when his sick 
pay would have reduced by half, before ceasing entirely after another six months. 
I note Mr M says the additional cost of the PPI put him in a difficult position financially. But 
the call script suggests the cost of the policy would have been provided during the phone 
call. And I havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mr M at the time it 
was taken. But if his circumstances changed, he could have cancelled it at any time without 
penalty. 
Its possible that Black Horse didnt give Mr M enough information about the terms of the 
policy. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable for Mr M, I dont think 
better information would have put him off taking the policy. 
So, overall, I dont think Mr M lost out because of anything Black Horse did wrong. It follows, 
I dont think Mr Ms PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman