DRN-2097727
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the poor service provided by esure Insurance Limited, which led 
to his car insurance policy being cancelled. 
What happened
Mr W took out a car insurance policy through Sheilas Wheels which is a brand esure uses. 
He received an email from esure with a letter attached saying his no claims discount had 
been verified and his policy had been set up. The letter also told him to check his 
documents. He then received an email from a second email address, also from esure, 
asking him to send a document to prove his address. Hes said this went into his junk mail 
and he didnt notice it. He received further emails from the same email address chasing the 
proof and warning him his policy would be cancelled. And he finally received one saying the 
policy had been cancelled. Then a refund of part of the premium was paid into his bank 
account. When he saw the refund he called esure to query it and was told his policy had 
been cancelled. He explained what had happened and was told the policy could be 
reinstated if he provided proof of his address. He was told a copy of his photocard driving 
licence was acceptable as proof. 
Mr W emailed a copy of his driving licence and asked how esure had originally 
communicated the need for him to provide his proof of address. He then more or less 
immediately received another email from the second email address esure had used. This 
time he checked it, despite being worried it might be a phishing email of some sort. The 
email told him his policy had been cancelled. He then got a further email from an underwriter 
at esure telling him that his driving licence wasnt suitable as proof of address. But the 
underwriter didnt apologise that Mr W been told his driving licence would be acceptable as 
proof or answer his query about how esure had originally communicated the need for him to 
provide his proof of address. Mr W exchanged a few further emails with esure and told them 
he wanted his policy to remain cancelled, as hed arranged a policy with a different provider. 
And he also complained about the service hed received. He explained that he didnt think it 
was appropriate for esure to use a different and unfamiliar email address when asking him 
provide proof of his address and follow up on this. Mr W has said these emails all went into 
his junk folder and he didnt pay any attention to them, as they were from a second email 
address and not the one he received attaching the letter confirming his policy from.  
esure upheld Mr Ws complaint, acknowledging they should have provided a better level of 
service and paid him £100 in compensation. Mr W wasnt happy with this response and 
complained to us. He said hed been suffering with his mental health and this episode had 
made things worse. And he wanted esure to acknowledge the way theyd communicated 
with him using varied and questionable email address wasnt adequate and confirm theyd 
stopped this practice. He also asked that esure apologise and compensate him adequately. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint and said esure should pay an 
additional £50 in compensation, as well covering any financial loss Mr W had suffered as a 
result of taking out a new policy. 
esure didnt accept the investigators view on the case. They think theyve paid enough in 
compensation already and that the suggestion they should cover Mr Ws financial loss is 
quite strange. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sequence of events as set out in the previous section isnt in dispute. And in their 
response to some further queries by me, esure have said they will feedback to their 
communications team on the problem with using different email addresses. Its not 
appropriate or my role to make esure change this practice, but I will say that I think it was 
unhelpful and did lead to the problems Mr W experienced and his policy being cancelled. 
I appreciate Mr W did receive all the emails requesting the proof of address, but I can 
understand why he didnt notice these or realise they were important. Its also very 
unfortunate that when he called up and found out his policy had been cancelled he was 
given incorrect information on what was acceptable to prove his address and had to follow 
up with further emails. And I think its completely understandable that he didnt want to 
continue his policy with esure. 
I think all this, along with finding out hed been driving uninsured, was very distressing and 
inconvenient for Mr W. Because of this I think a significant award of £200 in compensation is 
appropriate. esure have already paid Mr W £100, so they will need to pay him a further 
£100. Also, esure charged Mr W a cancellation fee of £26 when his policy was cancelled, 
which I dont think was fair in the circumstances. So they should refund this as well. Ive 
established Mr W has not lost out as a result of taking out a new policy, as the premium for 
this was lower than the premium for his policy with esure. So Ive decided that a further £100 
in compensation and refunding the cancellation fee is a fair and reasonable outcome to his 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. esure Insurance Limited must pay 
him a further £100 in compensation and refund the cancellation fee they charged of £26. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman