DRN-2057395
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 1998.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed with that view. 
He said that he wasnt given a choice when he took the PPI policy. He also said he didnt 
need cover because he had very generous sick pay from his employer and some savings. 
He did not feel our adjudicators view was fair.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I appreciate Mr W feels very strongly that this PPI policy was mis-sold. I am sorry to 
disappoint him, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr W would have known the PPI was optional and 
he didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. It looks as though Mr W applied for his 
mortgage during a face to face meeting. Mr W helpfully provided us with a copy of the 
mortgage application form. 
I can see from that mortgage application that Mr W didnt agree to buy the PPI straightaway 
and instead, he asked for a quote. So I think at that stage it would have been clear that the 
cover was separate to the mortgage and that the mortgage acceptance didnt depend on a 
PPI policy. Mr W said the cover was forced upon him. But I cant reasonably draw that 
conclusion if he was able to initially request only a quote. 
Mr W says he didnt know he had a policy and was surprised when our adjudicator set out 
what he was covered for. I dont doubt that what Mr W told us is what he genuinely 
remembers about the sale. But I also have to bear in mind that it is difficult to recall precisely 
what happened over 20 years ago, which is when this cover was sold. From what Ive seen, I 
think the PPI would have appeared as a separate transaction on his mortgage statements as 
repayments insurance. If Mr W hadnt agreed to the policy, I think he would have queried 
these transactions at the time. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest he did. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr W strongly disagrees, at the time and on balance, I think he probably 
knew about the PPI and that he could have refused it if he wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale as it puts more responsibility on Halifax to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mr Ws needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive 
thought about what we know about the terms and conditions that apply to the cover. And Ive 
considered at length what Mr W told us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that the policy would have covered Mr Ws mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months if he was too unwell to work or if he was made redundant. Mr W told us he was in 
good health, so I dont think he would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions 
about medical conditions. I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Ws employment 
circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
I appreciate Mr Ws argument that he had generous benefits from his employer and some 
savings. However, it is important for me to stress that this loan was secured on his home, 
which could have been at risk if he fell behind with his repayments. The PPI would have paid 
out in addition to his work benefits and so he could have put his existing resources towards 
his other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a stressful time for him if 
he had been out of work. 
Putting all of that together, I cant say the recommendation made by Halifax in respect of PPI 
was unsuitable. 
Halifax also had to give Mr W enough information about the cover so he could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I think it is possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr 
W everything it should have done, but I cant automatically uphold the complaint because of 
that. I think the recommendation was generally suitable and so I cant objectively say that Mr 
W would have acted differently if hed been given more or better information about the cover. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W and I do appreciate his strength of feeling about his case. But 
on balance and taking account of all the information before me, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman