DRN-4251799
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly gave him a 
credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 19 November 2013, Mr Ds credit card was opened by Nationwide with an initial credit 
limit of £2,500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr D complained to Nationwide to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Nationwide ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card for 
him. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide didnt agree. So, the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 4 July 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ds complaint is that Nationwide made credit available that was unaffordable. Nationwide 
has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr D provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ds name 
to assess Mr Ds level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Nationwide decided to 
agree to the credit limit of £2,500. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the 
time of the sale.
The Nationwide checks showed that Mr D had a good credit score. Mr D has provided a 
credit report that features some information from the time of the sale. This supports the 
evidence that was available to Nationwide at the time of the lending decision. Mr Ds credit 
file was very clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean that Mr Ds 
management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late 
payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was 
made, Mr D was affording his existing credit. And so, Nationwide were not put on notice of 
any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that 
Nationwide had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought 
to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ds expenditure. 
Mr D had declared a sizeable income with his application and so there was no obvious 
affordability issue that suggested that Nationwide should look more closely at Mr Ds 
finances. I have to look at the information that was available to Nationwide at the time it 
made its lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that 
the other information that Nationwide acquired or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ds 
expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Nationwide provided to Mr D was unreasonable. 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 18 July 2023. Nationwide has not acknowledged the provisional 
decision, made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. Mr D was 
disappointed with the provisional decision and made a further submission. 
So as Mr D has made his response to the provisional decision, and as Nationwide has had 
time sufficient to have done so, had they wished to do so, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D thinks he may have made a mistake in his declaration of income at the time of the 
lending decision. I said in the provisional decision, 
Mr D had declared a sizeable income with his application and so there was no obvious 
affordability issue that suggested that Nationwide should look more closely at Mr Ds 
finances. 
Nationwide were entitled to some degree to rely on information that was supplied by Mr D at 
that time. So, I dont feel this is sufficient to have brought their lending decision into question. 
In saying that I have had some regard for the self-employed net relevant earnings Mr D has 
told us about now and the relatively modest size of the initial credit.
Mr D has helpfully supplied lots of statements from the years before the lending decision. I 
have looked at all the submissions made in this case. Whilst some of the businesses refer to 
late or overlimit fees as defaults, that is a very different thing to a default that would show as 
such on a credit report. What is clear is that Mr D had a history of not managing his finances 
in a tidy manner, in that I have seen evidence of late fees and overlimit fees attached to 
accounts. 
But Mr D did manage his affairs sufficiently well to keep the information on his credit report 
largely clean. And whilst some of the things highlighted to me occurred near the time in 
question, most happened more than a year before the lending decision was made. But, 
based on the declared income, the size of the credit being offered and the clean credit 
history as it was reflected in their searches at the time, it is not clear to me that Nationwide were remiss in not asking for copies of the statements that Mr D has now provided to us to 
assess his complaint.
 As I said in the provisional decision, 
I have to look at the information that was available to Nationwide at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Nationwide acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ds 
expenditure more closely. 
I am grateful to Mr D for the pains he has taken to provide information from the time of the 
lending decision. And I acknowledge it is not straightforward trying to determine cases like 
this which happened so long ago. And this is especially so when we have no credit report 
that fully covers the time of the lending decision. 
I have considered afresh all of the submissions made to me in this case. Having done so, I 
have seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Nationwide provided Mr D was 
unreasonable. So, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman