DRN-2790736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
handled a claim made for damage caused by subsidence under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs I noticed some cracking in their property to the internal and 
external walls. They contacted LV who accepted a claim for subsidence. Its loss adjuster 
inspected the property and also found signs of historic subsidence damage. It said the claim 
would only include damage caused by recent subsidence movement.
Following investigations, it was determined that the drains behind the property were leaking, 
and that this was the cause of the movement. The drains were repaired at the start of 2020, 
and LV appointed contractors to repair the cracks. 
Repairs began in March 2020, but were put on hold due to the government restrictions in 
place at the time. Around this time Mr and Mrs I said the kitchen floor had dropped and that 
the worktops had fallen, and were concerned that the movement was still ongoing. They also 
said theyd discovered more cracks to the kitchen floor, in the bathroom and around the bay 
windows which had been discovered when wallpaper was removed.
LVs loss adjuster attended the property again in September 2020. It didnt agree that the 
kitchen floor had dropped because of any recent subsidence movement, and said it was 
historic damage. But it did agree to include some re-levelling of the kitchen worktops and to 
repair the cracks in the bathroom. 
LV didnt agree to cover the cracking discovered around the bay window as it thought this 
was historic. It also said some of the cracking to the kitchen floor was historic, and some was 
down to poor workmanship and wear and tear rather than subsidence.
Mr and Mrs I were unhappy with this, and raised a complaint with LV. They felt all of the 
damage should be covered and were concerned that the property might still be moving. 
They questioned why monitoring wasnt carried out before the repairs started to ensure that 
the property was stable, and said some damage appeared to be getting worse. They were 
also unhappy with the level of communication theyd received from LV and its loss adjuster.
LV didnt agree that it had made an error. It was satisfied that the repairs agreed were 
correct, and that monitoring wasnt necessary in the circumstances. It noted that the cracks 
repaired in March 2020 hadnt re-opened, indicating that the property was stable.  It also felt 
the standard of communication provided by LV and its loss adjuster was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree and referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She was satisfied LV had demonstrated that the damage to the 
kitchen floor and bay windows wasnt related to the recent subsidence movement, and found 
no evidence to suggest that the movement had continued since the drains were repaired.
Mr and Mrs I provided photos to demonstrate that the damage had worsened. Our 
investigator asked LV to comment, and it said the damage in the photos was the same as it 
had been in September 2020 when the loss adjuster visited. Our investigator wasnt 
convinced Mr and Mrs I had shown that the damage was getting worse or that any further 
action was necessary beyond the repairs already agreed by LV. She also didnt think the 
level of service and communication from LV and its agents was unreasonable.
As Mr and Mrs I didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt there has been some damage caused by subsidence to Mr and Mrs Is 
home. Mr and Mrs I say they dont think repairing the drains has successfully stabilised the 
property, and are concerned that movement is continuing and that the foundations may have 
been damaged. Ive reviewed the photos theyve provided as well as the reports from LVs 
loss adjuster. Having done so, Im persuaded that the steps taken by LV to stabilise the 
property appear to have been successful and I dont think LV needs to do anything 
differently to finalise the claim.
Once the drains were repaired, LV started work to repair the damage, rather than monitor 
the property. LV has said this was because the movement was only slight, so it thought it 
was more efficient to repair the property and see if the repairs would hold, rather than delay 
the repair whilst monitoring took place. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision for LV 
to make, given the movement was caused by a leaking drain that had been fixed and the 
movement was fairly minimal. While monitoring is often the best way to establish whether a 
property has stabilised, it also takes a long time. And from the evidence Ive seen, the cracks 
that were repaired in early 2020 havent re-appeared since they were repaired. So Im 
persuaded that this shows the property has stabilised and no monitoring is needed at this 
stage. 
In September 2020, LV agreed to carry out some repairs to the kitchen worktops which had 
dropped slightly near the door. Mr and Mrs I have said that their kitchen worktops have 
continued to drop since September 2020 suggesting that the property is still moving. Theyve 
also highlighted some cracking to their kitchen floor, which they say is recent. LV says the 
kitchen worktop hasnt dropped any further since their visit in September 2020. It also didnt 
find the cracking on the kitchen floor to be subsidence related, and said some of it is historic 
movement, and some down to poor workmanship relating to the grouting and wear and tear.
Having reviewed the photos and reports, I cant see any signs that the damage has 
worsened since LVs loss adjuster last visited the property. From comparing the photos I 
think the kitchen worktop is at the same level it was before, and the highlighted cracks are 
the same as they were in September 2020. So the photos provided from Mr and Mrs I dont 
persuade me that the property is still moving. Im also satisfied, on balance, that LV has 
shown the cracking to the kitchen floor isnt related to subsidence.There were two other areas of damage identified by Mr and Mrs I, to a bay window, and to 
the floor in the kitchen which they also thought had dropped. Im also satisfied this damage 
is most likely to be historic based on LVs loss adjusters findings. The undersides of the 
kitchen units dont appear to have been damaged or moved  suggesting that the floor 
dropped before they were installed. It also appears theyve been fitted to account for the 
distortion. And as Mr and Mrs I say they fitted the units after moving into the property, I think 
this shows any issue with the floor was already there before the recent movement. 
Similarly, the cracks around the bay window dont appear to have affected the window itself 
or the mastic, which is intact. Im satisfied this supports that its unlikely this crack is new 
damage. As theres no evidence the damage is linked to this episode of subsidence, I dont 
think LV needs to include repairs to these as part of settling the claim. So I wont be 
recommending that LV do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not going to ask Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
to do anything differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman