DRN-4471384
The complaint
Miss D complains about the service she received from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMFL) when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
In June 2018, Miss D entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with SMFL. Under 
the terms of the agreement she would make 59 monthly repayments of £150.79 followed by 
a final payment of £160.79.
On 21 February 2023, Miss D contacted SMFL by phone to discuss paying back the arrears 
on her account. During the call, SMFLs representative attempted to complete an income 
and expenditure form in order to find out if a repayment arrangement might be affordable to 
Miss D. When the call could not continue due to poor phone network issues, the 
representative offered to send Miss D the form by email to complete herself. But the form 
was not sent to her that day and it was necessary for Miss D to contact SMFL on at least two 
further occasions to chase for it. She was also told by SMFL that it wasnt possible to email 
her the form.
The income and expenditure form was eventually emailed to Miss D on 3 March 2023. 
SMFL has offered to pay Miss D £25 by way of compensation for what had happened. That 
offer has since been increased to £50.
Miss D is unhappy with the offer and says that she has lost out to due SMFLs actions as it 
has affected her credit file. 
Our investigator thought the offer was fair. As Miss D disagrees, her complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Miss Ds hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
First, I agree that SMFL could have done better, having told Miss D in error that it would be 
sending her an income and expenditure form to complete herself. That didnt happen 
because shed been incorrectly told it would be possible to send her the form. So Miss D 
was inconvenienced by having to chase SMFL for the form. At the same time she was 
understandably concerned about the delay. She also thought the delay might have an 
impact on her credit file. 
SMFL has acknowledged it could have done things better. It has now agreed to increase its 
offer of compensation from £25 to £50. This is by way of an adjustment against what Miss D 
currently owes SMFL in relation to her agreement. I think thats fair.
Ive next looked at whether the delay in providing Miss D with the income and expenditure 
form might have had a detrimental effect on the reporting of her financial situation to credit 
reference agencies. 
Ive not seen anything to show or suggest that SMFL had made an error in the way it 
reported the status of Miss Ds account. I should point out, as our investigator did in her 
view, that SMFL is legally obliged to report factual credit information to credit reference 
agencies. Nor can I see that during the period between Miss D contacting SMFL on 21 
February 2023 and receiving the income and expenditure form by email on 3 March 2023, 
there was a material change in her situation that would mean shed lost out. In particular,  as 
Miss D is suggesting, that it would have meant that the record of a payment shortfall from 
January 2023 wouldnt have been added to her credit file. 
The payment shortfall would in any event have gone on to be noted on Miss Ds credit file. 
This is irrespective of what happened between 21 February and 3 March 2023, being the 
time that elapsed between SMFL attempting to complete an income and expenditure form 
and Miss D actually receiving it. In short, the record added to her credit file was likely to have 
been an accurate reflection of her financial position in relation to the agreement. And it 
wasnt affected by the issues relating to Miss D discussing her financial position with SMFL 
and being asked to complete an income and expenditure form.
It follows that I agree there is no reason to request the removal of the adverse marker on her 
credit file that arises from the January 2023 partial payment. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the increased off of £50 fairly reflects the 
level of distress and inconvenience caused to Miss D. 
Putting things right  what SMFL needs to do
If follows that the only compensation I think its fair and reasonable to pay to Miss D is in 
relation to distress and inconvenience due to the income and expenditure form not being 
sent to her after SMFL had told her it would do so. 
That means SMFL must pay Miss D a further £25, in addition the £25 it offered her before 
this complaint was brought to this service. Its reasonable to pay this sum by way of an offset 
against what Miss D owes SMFL.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Specialist Motor Limited must pay Miss D a total of £50 compensation (if it has not already 
done so) to reflect the distress and inconvenience it has caused Miss D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman