DRN-3780260
The complaint
Mr H complains that he didnt get a zero per cent balance transfer from TSB Bank plc (TSB).
What happened
Mr H applied for a new credit card from TSB in June 2021. This was agreed with a limit of 
£7,000. At the time, TSB were offering 0% interest for up to 27 months on balance transfers 
which took place within 90 days of opening the account. Mr H transferred balances totalling 
£6,822.52 between 29 June 2021 and 10 September 2021. In April 2022, Mr Hs card 
account started to charge interest. He complained to TSB on 9 April 2022.
Mr H complained. He said TSBs offer was for 0% interest for 27 months. But he had been 
charged interest after ten months. He said TSB were in breach of the terms of the offer. He 
was now paying a high rate of interest  and this wasnt fair. He wants the interest refunding 
and the 0% offer reinstating for the remainder of the period. He also complained that TSB 
didnt deal with his complaint quickly enough - and this caused him stress and anxiety and 
caused him to continue to pay the interest for longer than necessary.
TSB didnt send a final response to Mr H. They told us that the complaint logged on 9 April 
2022 was closed in error, and therefore Mr Hs complaint wasnt investigated within the 
normal timescales of eight weeks. In the meantime, Mr Hs complaint came to our service to 
look into, and TSB sent to us the information regarding it.
Mr H brought his complaint to us in July 2022  when he hadnt had a response from TSB. 
Based on what TSB told our service, our investigator didnt uphold the substance of Mr Hs 
complaint  about the balance transfer. She said TSBs offer was for balance transfers at a 
rate of 0% for up to 27 months. And the period was subject to status and lending criteria. 
She said Mr H signed the credit card agreement online and this stated that the interest free 
period was for ten months (not 27 months). So  she said Mr H was sent enough information 
at the outset of the offer to see what had been agreed.
She considered the delay in dealing with Mr Hs complaint  and said that had TSB dealt 
with it when he called them, they couldve resolved matters earlier. For that, she said TSB 
should pay compensation of £50.
Mr H didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman  so it has 
come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the interest free period for balance transfers  in Mr Hs case  ended on 27 
June 2022. This was shown in the statement dated 27 March 2022. It said the interest rate 
would then increase to 25.95% APR. I suspect it was this statement that then caused Mr H 
to call TSB to complain about what had happened.
Mr H showed us a screenshot of TSBs offer at the time he applied for the credit card. It said 
0% interest for up to the first 27 months on balances transferred within the first 90 days. 
Mr H argues that he shouldve got 27 months at zero interest. But the offer is clear  it was 
up to 27 months.
I looked at TSBs offer at the time which was available on their website. This also said 0% 
interest for up to 27 months on balance transfers made within the first 90 days of account 
opening and it also said Credit limit, interest rates and promotional periods will vary based 
on your individual circumstances. Subject to status and lending criteria.  In other words, it 
was down to TSB to decide how long the offer was to be for each customer.
TSB told us that they assessed Mr Hs online application  and showed us the assessment. 
They decided to offer Mr H a ten month interest free period. And this was set out in the credit 
card agreement which Mr H signed online, electronically. The agreement said Our current 
rates for Promotional Transactions are: 0% p.a. and a charge of 1.45% for Balance 
Transfers made in the first 90 days after we open your account. This rate is fixed for 10 
months from the date we open your account. Interest on the charge is payable at the 
promotional rate.  So  the ten-month period was clear in the agreement.
I accept that Mr H may not have seen the up to statement in the offer, or the subject to 
status clause in the offer, and he may not have seen what was quoted in the credit 
agreement  but thats not the fault of TSB. And taken together, I think there was enough 
information for Mr H to have seen the details of what TSB agreed to and acted upon it.
Therefore, on the crux of Mr Hs complaint - I think TSB acted reasonably.
Unfortunately, TSB didnt deal with Mr Hs complaint efficiently. They told us they closed his 
complaint immediately it was received on 9 April 2022. And so - Mr H had to call TSB 
several times to chase it up. But by then, it had been placed back in a queue. This led to 
increasing levels of frustration for Mr H. 
I listened to five calls between May 2022 and July 2022 (and the original complaint call on 9 
April 2022).  While I understand his frustration, his foul and abusive language wouldnt have 
helped his case or enabled TSB to deal with matters. But if TSB had handled Mr Hs 
complaint more efficiently, Mr H wouldve got a quicker answer and his frustration wouldve 
been reduced. Because TSB applied the debit interest fairly, it wouldnt have reduced the 
amount of interest Mr H paid. But, for the delay in dealing with Mr Hs complaint, I agree that 
a compensation payment of £50 is appropriate. (continued) 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc must:
Pay compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman