DRN-2503500
The complaint
Mr N says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2000. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as Mr N applied for a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. Mr N said
he was told hed be refused the credit unless he took PPI, so he had no choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr N applied on line for PPI. Ive seen a sample of the screens he wouldve completed to 
apply for PPI. The options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence, 
showing he didnt have to have PPI to apply for the credit card and get credit. 
Canada Square Operations records show that Mr N selected the box to take out PPI. Based 
on what Ive seen, I cant see that he was put under any pressure to take PPI. So, on 
balance, I think Canada Square Operations made it clear to Mr N the PPI was optional and 
he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N, so it didnt have to check 
if it was suitable for him. But, it did have to give him information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading about the PPI, so that he could make an informed choice and decide if 
he wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Canada Square Operations gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But, he was eligible to take out the policy. He opted to take 
out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mr N wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Mr N said he was entitled to 6 months sick pay (three months at full pay and three 
months at half) so didnt need PPI. But, I dont think this made the policy obviously 
inappropriate. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and allowed him to 
use these for other household expenses. Having his credit card payments covered may 
have been important to him, particularly when he was on half pay. Overall, Mr Ns other 
means dont lead me to the conclusion that more likely than not if hed been given more 
information about the costs and the benefits he wouldve decided not to take the policy out.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mr N.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman