DRN-3444350
The complaint
Mr C complains that he paid the balance on his credit card with Tesco Personal Finance plc 
trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) however, when he logged into his account afterwards it 
showed that the payment was still due.
What happened
Mr C holds a credit card with Tesco. On 26 November 2021, Mr C paid the balance of his 
credit card  an amount of £435  which was due by 18 December 2021. Mr C said he later 
logged into his account and saw that the same payment still needed to be made by 
18 December 2021. Mr C was unhappy about this and complained to Tesco. Mr C also 
asked our service to review matters.
Tesco reviewed Mr Cs complaint. In summary, it acknowledged that the information Mr C 
saw may have been confusing, but it ultimately confirmed his payment had been received 
and no further payment was needed for that statement period. 
An investigator here looked into things and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
In summary, he thought the screen Mr C had referred to was just for information purposes 
and wasnt a demand for payment, as such. He outlined that a statement needed to be 
produced on an account to show the balance and the payment due. And, the screen Mr C 
referred to didnt update until the next statement was produced. He acknowledged this had 
caused some confusion but explained that Mr C could refer to the list of transactions to 
confirm whether a payment had been made.
Tesco didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr C did. In summary, he said he knew it 
wasnt a demand for payment. He also said that credit cards dont demand payment and, 
instead, a fine would be applied to the next statement if payment wasnt made, which could 
impact a credit file. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco explained that the screen Mr C referred to isnt asking for another payment. Instead, it 
shows the previous statement balance, the minimum payment amount and also has the 
option to make a payment amount of Mr Cs choice. Tesco further explained that these 
options remain until the payment due date has passed, even if the previous balance has 
been cleared. It also pointed out that customers may still be using the card and want to 
make further payments to cover any recent transactions, which is why the option to pay 
remains. 
I can understand how the information on the screen may have been confusing for Mr C, 
given that he appears to have been given the option to pay the previous statement balance, 
despite having already paid it. However, Ive considered that Tescos explanation about why 
the information displays in the way it does is reasonable here. And, I think there are other 
ways Mr C can check whether payment has been received in a given statement month. For 
example, Mr C could check his transaction history, which showed his payment was received 
in November 2021. Ive also noted that the current balance figure was reduced in line with 
the payment made, which further indicates the payment was received.
I understand Mr Cs concern about the impact of late or missed payments, including charges 
and adverse information recorded on his credit file. However, Ive not been provided with 
anything to suggest Mr C has been impacted in this way. And, Tesco told Mr C his payment 
was received, so he wouldnt have been required to make any further payments in that 
statement month.
Therefore, whilst I acknowledge how Mr C may have found the information confusing, Im 
satisfied Tesco has already recognised this and provided a reasonable explanation in the 
circumstances. And, I cant see Mr C has been caused any detriment here. It follows that I 
dont think Tesco needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman