DRN-2782547
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs D contacted British Gas as her tenants had no heating or hot water at a property 
covered by a HomeCare policy. British Gas was unable to send an engineer for 10 days, so 
Mrs D arranged for an independent engineer to fix the issue. The engineer visited a couple 
of days later and fixed the boiler. He also found an issue with a pipe, which he returned to 
repair a couple of weeks later.
British Gas then contacted Mrs D because she had cancelled the direct debit for the policy. 
Mrs D explained she had cancelled it because of the issues with booking the repair. British 
Gas said it would look at the costs for the independent engineer if Mrs D provided the 
invoice.
When Mrs D provided the invoice, British Gas refunded the cost of the engineer, but 
deducted a £60 excess from the payment, as this would have been payable if British Gas 
had visited.
Mrs D complained to British Gas because she didnt think it was fair to deduct the excess. 
She also thought her premiums should be refunded.
When British Gas considered the complaint, it paid Mrs D a further £200. This was a £40 
payment towards the landlord certificate, as this hadnt been completed before the policy 
was cancelled, a refund of the £60 excess and £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
When Mrs D complained to this service, our investigator said British Gas had dealt with the 
issues reasonably and didnt need to do anything further.
As Mrs D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further. I will explain why.
Mrs D contacted British Gas to send an engineer. When British Gas was unable to do so 
within a reasonable timescale, Mrs D arranged for an independent engineer to visit. I can 
understand that Mrs D had an expectation British Gas would carry out the repair and was 
unhappy when it was unable to do so. So, Ive looked at how British Gas dealt with the 
issues.
British Gas agreed to refund the cost of the independent engineers visit. Initially, it deducted 
a £60 excess. Looking at the policy, there was a £60 excess payable under the terms of the 
policy. So, I can see why British Gas deducted this. This also put Mrs D back in the position 
she would have been if British Gas had sent an engineer. However, I think British Gas acted 
reasonably by then refunding the excess when it reviewed the complaint, which meant it 
covered the full cost of the independent engineers visit.
British Gas also refunded £40 towards the landlords certificate, as this service wasnt 
carried out, and paid £100 compensation. However, Mrs D told our investigator that British 
Gas should pay the full cost of getting the annual service and landlords certificate carried 
out by someone else, which cost £150. So, Ive thought about this as well.
Mrs D cancelled the policy part way through the policy year. This meant that as the annual 
service and the landlord certification hadnt been carried out by that point, British Gas was 
unable to provide those services. As Mrs D had cancelled the policy but still required those 
services, she had to arrange for someone else to do this. But, I dont think this meant British 
Gas had to pay for this to happen. I think British Gas refunding £40 of the cost of the 
landlord certificate and paying £100 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. In 
my view, this, along with the other payments made by British Gas, fairly addressed the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs D.
Looking at what happened and how British Gas tried to resolve the issues, I think it acted 
reasonably and in line with what I would have said it should do. As a result, I dont require 
British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman