DRN-4421530
The complaint
Ms R complains about advice given by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
in the sale of a life insurance policy and an Individual Savings Account (ISA).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lot of information has been provided about this complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
Ms R feels about what happened. Ive summarised quite a few things which reflects the 
informal nature of our service. But I want to assure Ms R that Ive read all the submissions 
and considered everything that happened.
Ms R complained about the sale of a life insurance policy and an ISA. Royal London took 
responsibility for the sales and looked into what happened.
Initially Royal London didnt uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the life insurance 
policy. However after liaising with our Investigator they agreed the policy wasnt suitable. 
They offered a full refund of the premiums paid and 8% interest, deducting an applicable 
amount of tax. 
Looking at the policy I agree it wasnt suitable. I also agree the offer by Royal London is fair 
and reasonable as it puts Ms R back in the position she would be in had the policy not been 
mis-sold.   
Royal London agreed that part of the ISA investment wasnt suitable as it was too risky for a 
first time investor. And looking at the information from the time, I agree. 
To put things right Royal London calculated the financial loss by comparing the investment 
to a growth index to see what shouldve happened. Having done that Royal London offered 
over £5,000 for the loss, plus interest, and deducted an applicable amount of tax. 
Looking at the investment I agree it wasnt suitable. I also agree the offer by Royal London is 
fair and reasonable as it puts Ms R back in the position she would be in had the funds been 
invested in a more suitable fund.
When paying the redress for both issues there were mistakes made with the cheques and it 
took longer than it shouldve to put things right. To apologise for these errors Royal London 
paid Ms R £200 for any trouble and upset caused.    
Ms R said shes upset with the £200 due to the time taken and the errors made. Its also 
clear shes very frustrated with Royal London and said that she doesnt want anyone else to 
have the same issues as she did.
Its agreed by all parties that things didnt go as smoothly as they shouldve and also getting 
the redress right took some time and mistakes were made. I know this was especially 
upsetting for Ms R as the money used for the investment came from an inheritance so the 
thought of losing any money had a particularly strong effect on her.
Taking everything into account I think the £200 is a fair and reasonable offer for the 
problems that happened. I know what happened caused worry and inconvenience, but Im 
glad to see that matters have now been resolved. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the redress paid for the 
life insurance policy and for the ISA is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right 
alongside the £200 paid for the inconvenience of what happened. So I wont be asking Royal 
London to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman