DRN-3212420
The complaint
Mr T complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have unfairly settled his claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of AXA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AXA.
What happened
Mr T had an accident in his van. The van was taken into secure storage whilst AXA looked 
into his claim. Mr T left his belongings inside the van.
The van was classed as a total loss and AXA settled this claim with Mr T. The van was still in 
storage and Mr T was given permission to collect his belongings that had been left in the 
van. 
Appointments to collect his belongings were made and cancelled by Mr T a number of times. 
He attended one appointment and collected some of his belongings and arranged another 
appointment to collect the remaining belongings the following week.
He did not turn up for the next appointment and booked several other appointments and 
again did not show up for these. 
The van was cleared for salvage by AXA at the beginning of June 2020 and was removed 
from the storage company and sent to auction on 14 August 2020.
Mr T contacted the storage company to make another appointment and was informed that 
the van and its remaining contents had been removed and gone to salvage. 
Mr T complained to AXA and it paid him £750 compensation as it had not confirmed to him 
that his vehicle was being removed from storage and being auctioned.
Mr T said £750 was not enough. He said there were things missing from the van and that the 
van had been broken into whilst in storage. He also mentioned that some belongings he had 
removed from the van were mouldy.
 
Mr T said he couldnt collect all of his belongings because of Covid and that he only 
managed to go to the storage place once. He said most of his belongings in the van were 
lost when AXA allowed the van to go to auction.
As Mr T was not happy with AXA he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and did not think that 
AXA had been unreasonable in its compensation offer. He said that AXA had given him 
enough opportunities to collect his belongings when it was in storage.
As Mr T is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the timeline of events in this case.
The accident happened in February 2020 and Mr T was paid out for the total loss of his van 
in March 2020. This settlement does not form part of this complaint.
The van was kept in secure storage from 20 February 2020 and Mr T decided to leave his 
belongings in the van. AXA were aware that he wanted to collect these belongings and it 
arranged with its storage company to arrange collection directly with Mr T.
Mr T attended on 10 June 2020 to collect some personal belongings. The storage company 
stayed after it was due to close for him to do this. Mr T was unable to remove all his 
belongings as the van was very full. He said he would make another appointment to collect 
the rest.
I reviewed the further appointments arranged between Mr T and AXAs storage company for 
him to go and collect his belongings. A number of appointments were made and then not 
attended by Mr T.
Appointments were booked between 21 June 2020 and 2 September 2020. Four of these 
appointments were prior to the van being removed from storage and sent to auction. Two 
were made after the van had been removed.
The vehicle was collected 14 August 2020 and sold at auction. AXA have been unable to 
explain why its storage company continued to book appointments for Mr T when the van had 
been collected and sold at auction.
When it was realised that the van had been sent to auction, AXA asked Mr T to submit a list 
of belongings that were left in his van that he had not collected. Prices were not provided for 
all his belongings. 
AXA offered Mr T £250 compensation because it acknowledged it should have contacted 
him before 14 August 2020 to advise the vehicle was being taken away for auction and to 
allow him a final opportunity to collect his belongings. AXA increased its offer to £750 to 
contribute towards the loss of belongings. It said it was a global offer to cover compensation 
and lost belongings. 
I consider that Mr T had adequate time to collect his belongings from the van. The van was 
in storage for approximately six months.
I appreciate after the van went in to storage there were restrictions brought in due to the 
Covid pandemic which impacted on some working practices and general day to day life for 
the whole of the UK. However Mr Ts van was in storage for several weeks before there 
were any restrictions imposed. I can see that appointments were booked in June 2020 which 
was as soon as restrictions began to be lifted. AXA cannot be held responsible for any 
delays caused by Covid. The van was taken into storage in the winter time and I think it is reasonable to accept that 
during this time as the van was kept outside, that there was likely to be an element of 
dampness getting in to the van. I do not think that AXA can be held responsible for mould 
that had gathered on some clothing items. Mr T had the opportunity to collect belongings 
before the restrictions came in to force at the end of March 2020 so could have collected 
these items much sooner than he did.
There is no evidence to support Mr Ts comments that the van had been broken in to. The 
storage site has no record of any break in or damage caused to his van or to any other 
vehicles on site.
The van was in storage from February 2020 to August 2020 and I think this was a long 
enough time for Mr T to have been givien to collect his belongings, even taking in to 
consideration Covid restrictions. 
I agree that AXA should have told Mr T the van was being taken away on 14 August 2020 so 
that he had a final opportunity to collect his belongings. However I think the compensation of 
£750 paid to him for this error and towards loss of belongings was fair in these 
circumstances.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and dont require AXA to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman