DRN-3517119
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) declined a claim he 
made on his personal sick pay plan.
What happened
Mr S held a personal sick pay plan, provided by LV, since March 2015. It was due to run until 
February 2021. The plan paid a monthly benefit in the event Mr S couldnt work because of 
an illness or an accident. The benefit was payable after a one week waiting period. 
The plan included a term for linked claims which meant that if the policyholder went back to 
work and then within six months become too unwell to work again for the same reason, LV 
would carry on paying the previous claim from when then the policyholder had to stop 
working again.
Mr S had coronary angioplasty in June 2016 with a stent. He made several successful 
claims on his policy between 2016 and 2019 when he wasnt able to work in his role as a 
carpenter because of his condition. I understand the most recent claim between July and 
December 2019 was due to chest pain and angina pectoris.
LV received two reports from Mr S cardiologist from late November 2019 which said that 
there had been reassuring results from Mr S cardiac MRI in April 2019. The cardiologist said 
that there was no reason why Mr S shouldnt return to work in his own occupation in a 
graded fashion, and Mr S was discharged.
The cardiologist noted that Mr S continued to complain about chest pain and mentioned 
symptoms of anxiety and depression, and that he may discuss these with his GP. Mr S was 
diagnosed with anxiety and depression in December 2019, and he started antidepressant 
medication for this.
Following the cardiologist reports, LV paid Mr S claim until 26 December 2019, and then 
closed it.
Mr S returned to work for a few days in January 2020, but he says he experienced accidents 
at work. So, Mr S didnt feel safe or fit to work.
Mr S GP signed Mr S off work first on 14 January 2020 due to stress. And from 29 January 
2020 onwards his GP signed him off work due to chest pains or awaiting cardiac 
investigations. The GP again signed Mr S off work later in 2020 due to him feeling stressed.
Mr S had a phone appointment with a cardiologist in May 2020 who reassured Mr S of his 
recent MRI results. The cardiologist believed Mr S symptoms to be related to anxiety, but he 
arranged an exercise ECG for Mr S. This was carried out in October 2020. The cardiologist 
said the ECG remained normal and gave Mr S reassurances that he could lead an active 
and normal life.
Mr S GP wrote to LV in December 2020 and explained that Mr S anxiety and depression 
appeared to be relatively well controlled in primary care and he hadnt required secondary 
care input. The GP said Mr S had required time off work due to this illness, as he continued 
to feel stressed.
Mr S says LV shouldve paid his claim from January 2020 onwards until his policy expired in 
February 2021 because his GP didnt consider him fit to work during that time. But LV 
declined the claim. It said that Mr S cardiologist stated in November 2019 that there was no 
reason why Mr S couldnt return to work in a graded fashion. It said that there was no 
objective medical evidence to indicate any incapacity due to his chest pains that would 
prevent Mr S from working  or anything to explain why Mr S mental health symptoms and 
condition prevented him from working.
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr S brought a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think LV had done 
anything wrong. In short, she acknowledged that Mr S GP had signed him off work. But she 
noted that this was mainly due to chest pains, and Mr S cardiologist had specifically said he 
could return to work. Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient medical evidence to 
show why Mr S symptoms, or his mental health condition, prevented him from working.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint.
Mr S policy says that a benefit is payable as follows:
well pay you if youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of your occupation, and you 
arent doing any other paid or unpaid work By main tasks we mean the things which cant 
reasonably be left out of your role, or changed by you or your employer. It doesnt matter 
what the illness or accident is, if it stops you from working, well pay you your insurance.
Its for Mr S to show that he has a valid claim. And I can see he was signed off work from 
14 January 2020 onwards. But it doesnt automatically follow that Mr S can claim on his 
policy as he still has to meet the policy definition Ive outlined above.
The majority of Mr S fit notes from his GP refer to chest pain or cardiac investigations. But 
Mr S cardiologist thought in late November 2019 that he could return to work in his 
occupation. None of the subsequent reports from the cardiologist suggest that there was 
anything impacting on Mr S ability to do the main tasks of his occupation. On the contrary, 
the cardiologist provided Mr S reassurances that he could lead a normal and active life.
Some of the fit notes referred to stress, and Mr S was diagnosed with depression and 
anxiety. LV asked Mr S GP more details about this, and they responded to say the condition 
was relatively well controlled. While the GP said Mr S had required time off work due to this, 
they didnt explain why this was impacting on his ability to do the main tasks of his 
occupation.Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to conclude that there was no clear medical 
evidence which demonstrated that Mr S met the relevant policy definition. So, Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr S but I dont think LV acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman