DRN-3512994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to their 
purchase of some solar panels.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr and Mrs T bought solar panels for their home in April 2016. The purchase was funded by 
a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr and Mrs T into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. The 
CMC also calculated that the panels were under-performing, in that the meter reading 
showed that the panels were not generating as much energy as had been predicted at the 
point of sale.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC did not agree with the adjudicators decision. It pointed out that it would take the 
panels 25 years to pay for themselves, compared with a loan term of only 15 years. Since no 
agreement could be reached, the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am minded to uphold this case. In brief, 
that is because the MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 
3,436 kWh a year. I have looked at Mrs Ts FIT statements and can see that the panels, on 
average, have generated 2,983 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at 
the point of sale  86.8%  so Im satisfied that the panels are not performing as expected or 
even within a tolerable margin of the estimate (which I think is 90%). That could either be 
because of some defect with the panels, or because its expected performance was 
somewhat exaggerated during the sale. On the balance of probabilities, I currently think the 
latter is more likely, since there is no other evidence that there is anything wrong with the 
panels or with how they were installed. (However, if the parties would prefer to arrange an 
independent inspection to find out, I am willing to consider allowing that to take place before 
I proceed to issue a final decision.)
I therefore conclude that a misrepresentation did take place and that Mr and Mrs T were not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and 
would equate to an additional cost for them.
So I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and Mrs T fairly and they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs T 
from the solar panels over the 15 year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs T are paying (or have paid) more than they should 
have, then Shawbrook need to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with them by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs T in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 15 year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs Ts monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would have paid more each month than they should have done, 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as they would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr 
and Mrs T have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to be 
used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs T and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs T and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs T accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs T have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs T have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs T paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs T receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs T paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs T receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs T first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses to my provisional findings
Shawbrook arranged for an inspection of the system. The result was that no faults were 
found. So I am satisfied that the systems expected performance was misrepresented to Mr 
and Mrs T by the installer, and that Shawbrook is liable for that. There is therefore no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman