DRN-3314970
The complaint
Mrs M through a professional representative complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) gave her unsuitable advice to transfer out of her 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). 
Sun Life reviewed the sale in 2001 but Mrs Ms representative says that it hasnt retained all 
the information as it shouldve done. And it is for Sun Life to prove it did the review correctly. 
What happened
Mrs M transferred her OPS into a Sun Life Personal Pension in 1992.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities & Investment Board, instructed firms to 
review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened between 
29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994. 
Sun Life completed the review in 2001 and wrote to Mrs M to confirm she had been 
financially disadvantaged by the transfer in an offer letter. The offer contained a loss 
assessment, redress information and assumptions used. It also detailed a total redress 
payment of £13,315.41 which was added to a new plan.
The offer was accepted by Mrs M in full and final settlement.
More recently, Mrs Ms representative wrote to Sun Life requesting they redress Mrs M in 
line with the updated Financial Conduct Authority's guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable defined benefit transfers.
When the complaint was referred to this service and in later correspondence the 
representatives have mentioned Sun Life have failed to retain necessary documents to 
demonstrate the review and calculations were carried out in accordance with regulatory 
requirements. They say that the FCA's FG17/9 guidance should be used, to repeat a review.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think Sun Life had done anything wrong or 
that it needed to do a new review. They explained Sun Life had already looked into and paid 
redress in relation to the transfer complained about. And the evidence showed Sun Life had 
complied with the guidance at the time when completing the review. The investigator 
explained Sun Life had retained evidence of its calculations and its offer to Mrs M.
In response Mrs Ms representatives, Fair Return, repeated its assertion that Sun Life hadnt 
retained all its documents and therefore should re-review the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons.
Is the Pension Review applicable?
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 2001. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Sun Lifes position
Sun Lifes position is that it has already considered Mrs Ms transfer in-line with the SIB 
Pension Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past 
Business  Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators 
thereafter. And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again.
Mrs Ms representatives position
Mrs Ms representative says that the review in 2001 wasnt carried out correctly and the 
calculation should be re-done but instead using the updated FG17/9 review guidance. 
Mrs Ms representative says that the review was done incorrectly but hasnt provided any 
evidence to say why. Its said that Sun Life were required to retain the documentation 
indefinitely so that it could be independently reviewed. And as it hasnt done so, it cannot 
demonstrate in relation to FG17/9 that it carried out the review in line with the guidance at 
the time  and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
Sun Life has retained documentation from the time of the review as it was required to do so. 
There is also evidence that suggests it did attempt to see if they could re-instate Mrs M into 
her OPS. But as this wasnt possible it made an offer to top up her existing personal 
pension. It has also provided evidence of its calculations at the time  the assumptions used 
and the communication of the offer with Mrs M. 
Our investigator told Fair Return about the evidence weve received. Fair Return hasnt been 
specific about what else Sun Life shouldve retained. I think the evidence is sufficient to 
show that Sun Life carried out the calculation and likely in line with the regulators guidance. 
At the time Mrs M had the opportunity to tell Sun Life if any of its assumptions were incorrect 
 but she accepted the calculation and the assumptions within in full and final settlement.
Furthermore, the regulator provided assumptions and a framework for firms to use when 
carrying out the loss calculations. At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies 
to do much of the reviews. And businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal 
and external quality checks by the regulator. In our experience the large majority of 
calculations have been calculated in line with the regulators guidance.
So I think its more likely than not that Mrs Ms  Pension Review was in accordance with the 
regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at the time 
and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed by those standards.Conclusions
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and in 2001 Mrs M agreed a final settlement in 
respect of the transfer advice she received. Only in limited circumstances would I look 
beyond that agreement. That would include where the calculation was done incorrectly. But, 
the evidence Ive seen suggests it likely was done correctly. And so I dont think theres any 
reason for me to require Sun Life to redo the redress calculation using the FG/17 guidance.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman