DRN-2062295
The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasnt able to make an online payment to an overseas account from 
his account with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
What happened
Mr B visited family overseas. He said he hadnt taken a lot of currency, because he knew he 
could just transfer money to accounts held by his family overseas. He also wanted to do that 
so he could help his family financially. He tried repeatedly to make a payment from his UK 
account with RBS to a family members overseas account, but wasnt able to do so. 
Mr B said hed contacted RBS about this, but it was no help. It said it could transfer money if 
he faxed them, but Mr B had no access to a fax machine. And it suggested he clear cookies 
or use a different device, which didnt work. Mr B said that instead of being able to help his 
family financially, he ended up having to borrow money from them. 
When Mr B got back to the UK, he complained. He said RBS just paid him £75 without 
agreeing this with him, or solving the problem. Mr B was particularly angry that RBS had 
known for a while that there was a problem with international payments, and hadnt told him. 
He was also concerned that no one had taken ownership of the problem when he was 
experiencing it.
Mr B made a payment in branch to a family member hed borrowed money from, which cost 
£35. RBS has now paid him a further £175, and refunded the cost of the international 
transfer, but Mr B said it still hadnt given him any answers, and he didnt think the 
compensation paid was enough.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that she understood 
Mr B had received poor service, and RBS couldve handled the situation better. But our 
investigator said RBS had repeatedly apologised for what had gone wrong. She said RBS 
was actively working on fixing the problem. So she appreciated the emotional impact this 
had on Mr B, but she thought that the compensation RBS had paid provided a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said RBS was getting off lightly. He had been denied access to his 
money. RBS didnt admit the fault until he got home, and even then not all bank staff knew. 
He said RBS left him high and dry without offering a solution. He felt RBS had made a mess 
of resolving the complaint, and the apology was meaningless. 
Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
I understand Mr Bs frustration at not being able to make a transfer that hed relied on being 
able to make, and at not being helped by RBS staff. I think its likely that there was little the 
staff could do to help him, if this is an IT problem that RBS was still trying to fix. RBS did 
offer to transfer money for Mr B if he could get access to a fax machine to send instructions. 
And Mr B has said he couldve used ATMs, but didnt want to pay the charges involved in 
that. So, whilst I appreciate that Mr B couldnt access his money as hed planned, I dont 
think he was left high and dry with no access at all to money while he was away. 
RBS wrote to Mr B to apologise. Mr B said he didnt get this, and queried why it had been 
posted when previous correspondence had come by email. It is quite common for banks to 
prefer to send complaint responses in the post. I dont think theres anything to suggest RBS 
didnt send its first complaint letter. I think its unfortunate that Mr B didnt receive that letter. 
As he was still unhappy, he complained again, and RBS increased the compensation it paid 
him. It paid him back the money hed had to pay to transfer money to his family member 
through the branch. And it apologised again. 
I understand why Mr B remains upset about this, as the problem with making transfers 
happened at a particularly awkward and stressful time for him and his family. But I still think 
that what RBS has done is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. So, although I know Mr B will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should 
be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman