DRN-3476689
The complaint
Mr, Mrs and Miss L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt settled a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr, Mrs and Miss L booked a UK holiday on 16 February 2020, and they were due to travel 
between 10 and 17 July 2020. Alongside the holiday booking, they bought a single trip travel 
insurance policy. The insurer was Great Lakes.
At the time of booking, Mr, Mrs and Miss L paid a small deposit for the accommodation, and 
they paid the outstanding balance on 29 May 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed national restrictions on 
movement and travel, commonly referred to as lockdown.
Mr L received a letter from the NHS dated 3 April 2020 advising him to shield against the 
risk of contracting Covid-19 for at least 12 weeks from the date of the letter  so, at least 
until 26 June 2020. This included advice for Mr L to not leave home or go out for shopping, 
leisure or travel, amongst other things. Mr L says that Miss L received the same advice.
Mr L received a further letter dated 22 June 2020 explaining that the advice for those 
shielding was changing soon  but for now, the advice was to follow the shielding guidance 
rigorously.
Mr L says he visited his GP on 26 June 2020 who advised against travel due to his medical 
conditions and the shielding advice. Following this, Mr, Mrs and Miss L cancelled their trip 
and made a claim for the lost accommodation costs to Great Lakes. They say the claim 
should be covered as cancellation due to quarantine is covered.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said that there was no insured event under the policy 
because quarantine was different to self-isolation. Great Lakes also said that the 
cancellation section had an exclusion for regulations set by the government of any country, 
which it said applied in this situation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said shed taken into account 
the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word quarantine  she thought Mr and Miss L were 
in strict isolation imposed to prevent the spread of disease. Overall, she thought a 
reasonable person would consider Mr and Miss L as being in quarantine, and this was the 
reason they couldnt travel. So, she thought the situation was covered by the policy terms as 
cancellation due to quarantine was covered, and that Great Lakes had unfairly declined the 
claim.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators findings. It said that the exclusion for 
regulations set by the government of any country should apply, as the isolation rules were 
set by the government.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in May 2022. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr, Mrs and Miss Ls complaint.
Ive first looked through the terms and conditions of the policy. The cancellation section 
provides cover for the unused travel and accommodation costs if the policyholder has to 
cancel the trip due to one of a number of listed events. One of these is: You or any person 
who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being quarantined
The policy terms dont define the word quarantine. So, Ive considered the ordinary, 
everyday meaning of the word. Our investigator considered this to be a strict isolation 
imposed to prevent the spread of disease, which is also one dictionary definition of 
quarantine. Neither party has disputed this definition. Ive also considered the context in 
which the word quarantine is used within the policy wording.
Having considered the shielding letter dated 3 April 2020 addressed to Mr L, Im satisfied 
that he was in strict isolation imposed to prevent the spread of disease  including 
preventing Mr L himself being exposed to that disease. I think a reasonable person would 
therefore consider Mr L as being in quarantine.
That said, I dont think its unreasonable that Mr, Mrs and Miss L paid the outstanding 
balance for the trip on 29 May 2020. At that point, the advice to shield was for at least 12 
weeks from the original letter Mr L received  so until 26 June 2020 at least. As they were 
due to travel a few weeks after this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr, Mrs and Miss L 
to think on 29 May 2020 that they may be able to travel between 10 and 17 July 2020.
The letter dated 22 June 2020 advised Mr L to continue to follow the shielding advice 
rigorously  except there were a few planned changes to the shielding advice from 6 July 
2020 onwards. But these didnt specify changes to leisure travel. Shielding advice was finally 
paused on 1 August 2020  which was after Mr, Mrs and Miss Ls intended trip dates.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr L was effectively in quarantine, and I think the 
claim falls within the scope of the policy cancellation cover.
Great Lakes says that as the isolation rules were set by the government, the exclusion in this 
section for Anything arising directly or indirectly from: g) regulations set by the 
government of any country should apply in the circumstances.
But I dont agree. The shielding letters specifically refer to it being guidance and advice. 
Government regulations, on the other hand, are passed in parliament, have legal effect and 
can be legally enforced. Advisory guidance is purely advisory and theres no obligation to 
follow it nor are there any potential legal consequences if a person chooses not to do so.
I also noted that at the point when Mr, Mrs and Miss L cancelled their trip, the UK 
government had announced the lifting of lockdown restrictions from 4 July 2020 onwards  
so, by the time they were due to travel. This included two households being permitted to mix 
both indoors and outdoors, and the reopening of accommodation sites.Taking everything into account, I dont think the exclusion would apply in the circumstances 
of Mr, Mrs and Miss Ls claim. So, I dont think Great Lakes acted fairly or reasonably when it 
declined the claim.
Both parties responded to say they accept my provisional decision. So, Im now issuing my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached. That means Ive reached the same decision, and for the same reasons.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr, Mrs and Miss Ls claim falls within the scope of 
the policy cancellation cover. And I dont think the exclusion would apply in the 
circumstances of this claim. So, I dont think Great Lakes acted fairly or reasonably when it 
declined the claim.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should accept Mr, Mrs and Miss Ls cancellation claim, subject to the applicable 
policy limits and/or excesses. It should also add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple 
per annum from the date of the claim until the date settlement is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr, Mrs and Miss Ls complaint. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L, Miss L and 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman