DRN-4089160
The complaint
L a company complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed its business account 
without notice or explanation. L couldnt access funds which led to financial hardship.
L is represented by its director Mr S.
What happened
L had a business account with Santander. On 21 June 2022 Ls account was blocked by 
Santander. L had over £50,000 in the account.
Mr S has said that because of not being able to access the funds in the account L wasnt 
able to pay staff and business overheads. Mr S says he had to take out multiple personal 
loans to cover these costs.
Following the review of Ls account Santander decided to close Ls account with immediate 
effect on 4 August 2022. Santander sent the notice to close letter and enclosed a cheque for 
the balance of the account.
L complained to Santander. He was unhappy with their response, so he complained to our 
service. One of the investigators looked at the complaint. She said she didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly when it blocked and closed Ls account. She also looked at 
whether Santander had caused any delays but, on the evidence, she didnt think they had.  
She accepted Mr S had taken out personal loans to cover Ls liabilities for business 
expenses and staff salaries but as Santander had acted fairly, she wouldnt be awarding 
compensation.
Mr S was unhappy with the view he said he couldnt see what term L had breached.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ls account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Ls account. 
Financial businesses, like Santander, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments.
I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Santander was unfair. 
Santander then sent L notice to close the account. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Ls account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of Ls account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Ls 
account without notice. For Santander to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Ive considered whether Santander caused delays in the review of Ls account, Ive looked at 
the timeline and can see that Santander didnt cause any unnecessary delays and were 
trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. I appreciate that Santanders actions 
caused L real inconvenience. It wouldnt, however, be appropriate to make an award for 
compensation for that, since I dont believe that Santander acted inappropriately in taking the 
actions that it did.
Mr S has said he wants to know the reason why Santander blocked and later closed Ls 
account. Especially as he doesnt think L has done anything wrong or breached any term. 
But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And 
its under no obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind the account block or closure, as much 
as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Mr S has told us that he incurred financial losses as did L as a result of the block on the 
account.
I have already said that I think Santander acted fairly when they blocked and later closed Ls 
account. It follows that even though I accept this made Ls trading very difficult because 
Santander didnt make an error, I wont be asking them to compensate L. 
Mr S has said he had to take out loans which he guaranteed himself. I appreciate that as an 
officer of the company he was doing everything he could to keep the company trading. But I 
should add that I cant make an award for the distress Mr S experienced here. Santanders 
customer is L, not Mr S. Because L is a limited company, it cannot feel distress. And our 
service cant award compensation for distress experienced by Santanders customers 
directors or employees personally. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman