DRN-1038439
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that he was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement he took out with Black 
Horse Limited.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement through Black Horse to acquire 
a new car. A few weeks later he complained to Black Horse that the supplying dealership 
had mis-sold him the finance agreement. And he raised the following points:
1. He wasnt told there would be a charge if he exceeded the contracted mileage. He says 
he asked the dealership to increase the mileage, but it didnt do so;
2. Hes unhappy that he could be held liable for damage to the car when he returned it and 
that he might not be allowed to be present when the inspection took place;
3. Hes unhappy theres a large final payment at the end of the finance term and also that 
hes unable to make overpayments to reduce this final payment;
4. He wasnt given a clear explanation about how he could end the agreement early and 
the costs in doing so.
Black Horse didnt uphold this complaint. It said the terms of the finance agreement set out 
the maximum permitted mileage over the term of the agreement and the costs Mr B would 
have to pay if he exceeded this mileage. It also said the terms set out it was Mr Bs 
responsibility to maintain the car in a good condition. 
Mr B said he didnt have his glasses when he signed the agreement, so asked the salesman 
to explain everything to him. And he says he wasnt told about the key features of the 
agreement. Black Horse said, while Mr B didnt have his glasses, he signed the agreement 
to say he understand the terms within it and was happy to proceed. And it said he could 
have chosen to sign it when he did have his glasses with him.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr B had said he knew there was a 
mileage limit. So he thought it was reasonable for him to have been aware there would be a 
charge for exceeding that limit. He acknowledged Mr B said hed asked to have the mileage 
increased. But he also thought it was fair for Mr B to have queried this when the monthly 
payments didnt change. Ultimately, he said the mileage limits were clearly set out on the 
finance agreement.
The investigator also said it was fair for Black Horse to charge for any damage caused to the 
car while Mr B had it. He acknowledged Mr B wanted to be present at the inspection when 
the agreement ended, but he said that he couldnt consider something that may or may not 
happen in the future.
The investigator didnt think the supplying dealership had misled Mr B to believe hed get 
some payments back if he settled the finance early. He thought the agreement set out the 
terms of the agreement clearly.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained the dealership told him he could 
make extra payments monthly and that it didnt tell him about the additional charges for 
exceeding the maximum allowed mileage and damage charges. He also said the dealership 
didnt discuss the rights to hand the car back early.
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
The finance was sold by the supplying dealership in its capacity as a credit broker. But, as 
the finance provider, Black Horse can be held responsible for how the agreement was sold 
by the credit broker because it was acting as Black Horses agent.
Mr B says the supplying dealership didnt clearly explain all the terms of the finance 
agreement to him and gave him misleading information. My role in this complaint is to 
assess whether the agreement was clearly explained to Mr B and, if so, whether Mr B has 
lost out as a result  i.e. I need to think whether Mr B would have acted differently. 
The Financial Conduct Authority has set out what it thinks brokers should do when selling 
and arranging a credit agreement. And this are set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(also known as CONC). And these say, as a credit broker, the dealership needed to explain 
the key features of the agreement to Mr B to enable him to make an informed choice about 
whether the agreement was suitable for his needs and financial situation. But this doesnt 
mean it had to explain each and every term of the contract.
Ive taken Mr Bs comments into account, but I dont think Ive seen enough to say he was 
given misleading information. I note Mr B says he wasnt told there would be charges for 
exceeding the maximum allowed mileage. I think its likely the mileage would have been set 
after a discussion between the dealership and Mr B to understand Mr Bs expected annual 
usage. 
Black Horse has said Mr B previously had a finance agreement prior to this finance and he 
handed his previous car back early during the finance term having travelled around 4,200 
miles after 13 months. I also understand Mr B had only travelled around 1,300 miles in the 
first four months hed had the car. So, taking all this into account, I dont think the mileage 
allowance set was unreasonable. And I think Mr B would have been reasonably aware there 
would have been a charge if he exceeded that. I note Mr B says he asked to change the 
annual mileage, but I havent seen enough to support that. But, even if he did, I havent seen 
anything to show hes lost out as a result. 
I note Mr B thinks the dealership should have explained to him hed be liable for any damage 
that occurred on the car during the finance term. But this is a standard term in all hire 
purchase agreements. So I dont think the dealership needed to highlight it. But, even if it 
did, I dont think Mr B would have acted differently because he would have still entered into 
the finance agreement. I say this because he approached the dealership to acquire a car 
and I think he was always going to acquire it on finance. 
Mr B has expressed concern that he might not be able to be present during the inspection 
when he returns the car. But I havent seen anything which would lead me to think Black Horse would prevent Mr B from being present from any future inspection so I cant 
reasonably say hes lost out or that Black Horse has done anything wrong.
Mr B is unhappy he has to make a large payment (often known as a balloon payment) at the 
end of the finance agreement to retain the car. But I think its likely the agreement was set up 
through a discussion with Mr B about what he was willing to pay each month. It should be 
noted that the credit on the finance was around £34,000, with a final monthly payment of 
around £28,000. So the monthly payment would have been considerably higher if he didnt 
want to make a balloon payment. And I dont think Mr B would have taken out the finance on 
these terms. 
I note Mr B has complained that he wasnt able to make overpayments on the loan to reduce 
the final balloon payment. However, this is standard practice for the type of agreement Mr B 
entered into. Mr B is able to make overpayments which will reduce his monthly payments up 
to the balloon payment, which would reduce the interest payable over the loan term. I 
havent seen anything to show Mr B was given incorrect information. But, as I said above, I 
think Mr B was always likely to enter into this finance agreement because it seems his 
primary desire was to acquire the car in question. So, even if Mr B was given incorrect 
information, I dont think he would have acted differently. And, as I said above, Im not sure 
Mr B would have wanted to take out a finance agreement without a balloon payment. I also 
havent seen anything to show that he hasnt been able to make overpayments on the 
agreement.
Finally Ive thought about Mr Bs comment that he wasnt told what would happen if he 
handed the car back early. But I wouldnt expect the dealership to explain this to Mr B unless 
he asked about it. And I havent seen enough from what Mr B has told us to say that he was 
given false or misleading information in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman