DRN-4281809
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited used an earlier date to calculate the 
valuation of his pension, not the date the funds were actual disinvested when the value was 
higher. 
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension plan held with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva).
On turning 55 in 2023 Mr C wanted to take benefits from his policy and exercised the open 
market option. He requested his policy be disinvested and the funds transferred to an 
annuity provider Ill refer to as J. 
On 20 February 2023 Mr C received a letter from Aviva explaining it had sent J just over 
£469,943 calculated as of 14 February 2023, the date all their requirements were met. This 
figure included late payment interest of £376.75, as the funds werent actually sent to J until 
20 February. As Mr C could see in his online account the plan value on that date was 
actually higher, he thinks Aviva should honour the higher valuation. 
In response to Mr Cs complaint Aviva explained it received the request via the Origo 
Options electronic transfer system on 14 February 2023, and this was the date all their 
requirements to make the transfer were met. Its terms provide a five working day timescale 
in which to make the payment, but the funds will still show on Mr Cs plan until they are 
actually remitted. Mr C would receive the 14 February 2023 valuation regardless of whether 
the funds rose or fell in that period, but it would add late payment interest as it had done for 
Mr C. So it didnt accept Mr C had been treated unfairly. 
Mr C remained unhappy so referred his complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied that Aviva had explained to 
Mr C it would calculate the fund value as at the date of receipt of the Origo request, or (if 
later) the date all its requirements were met. In Mr Cs case all its requirements were met on 
14 February 2023 when the Origo request was received. So he said it was fair for Aviva to 
use that date when calculating the policy value. 
Mr C disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision. He said that when Aviva 
wrote to him on 20 February it was aware that his fund wouldve been worth more if 
disinvestment was delayed but chose to use 14 February when the value was lower. He 
thought it was unfair that either through choice or inefficiency Aviva was able to engineer a 
delta between the fund value at disinvestment date and the amount paid to J. He feels 
Aviva has unjustly benefited from the difference of almost £4,500, which will have a long-
term impact on his retirement income. And the interest payment is less than 10% of his loss. 
So the case has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Mr C could choose a range of benefit options from Aviva: an annuity, flexi-access drawdown, 
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum, or he could take the open-market option. Mr C 
wanted to purchase an annuity, so engaged firm R to compare the annuity offered by Aviva 
with those available on the open market. And R recommended an annuity provided by J, 
which required Aviva to disinvest Mr Cs plan and send the funds to J to purchase the 
annuity. 
On 24 January 2023 R made enquiries of Aviva on behalf of Mr C. With their letter R 
provided Mr Cs authority and his confirmation that hed consulted PensionWise but not a 
regulated financial adviser, both signed on 18 January. Aviva received the letter on 25 
January and sent out an options pack promptly dated 28 January 2023. This gave a current, 
non-guaranteed valuation of around £461,933, and explained it supported transfers through 
the Origo Options Pension Transfer Service. 
It advised that if Mr C wished to proceed with a transfer to another provider the amount 
Aviva would pay would be equal to the transfer value of the plan as at the date we receive 
all of our requirements to process the transfer. 
Aviva responded to Rs queries on 1 February and received the Origo transfer request on 14 
February, which was uploaded to the system on 17 February 2023. Ive seen a copy of the 
request and the activation date is clearly 14 February 2023 at 11.13, with an anticipated 
completion date of 26 February. 
If Aviva had still needed further information or clarification after 14 February when the Origo 
request was received, a later date wouldve been used to calculate the transfer value. But as 
all Avivas requirements were met by then, in line with its letter then that calculation date was 
used. The transfer was completed four days later on 20 February 2023, but Aviva added 
interest between the calculation and remittance dates, which I think is reasonable. 
Until the funds were actually disinvested and remitted to J they remained visible on Avivas 
online platform. Mr C has provided a number of undated screenshots showing his plan 
valuation, the lowest being around £469,609 and the highest around £474,107 (a range of 
around £4,500).So in the period in question Mr Cs plan value rose, but it might equally have 
fallen, which is why Aviva explains at the outset the calculation date it will use. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Aviva selected the calculation date to benefit itself to the detriment of Mr 
C, as the evidence shows the calculation was carried out as at the date the Origo request 
was received. 
So while I appreciate where Mr C is coming from I dont consider Aviva has treated him 
unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman