DRN-1708442
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mrs F and Mr Z hold with Bank of 
Scotland plc. Theyre unhappy that Halifax sent an arrears letter and reported a missed 
payment on their credit files even though theyd not missed any payments.
Halifax had apologised, removed the credit file entries, and paid £200 compensation. Mrs F 
and Mr Z brought the complaint to us because they dont believe Halifaxs redress goes far 
enough.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Mrs F and Mr Zs mortgage payment is due on the 28th of each month. They make their 
payments manually, usually before the due date and for more than the contractual monthly 
payment (CMP). Theyve also made periodic lump sum part redemptions to bring the 
balance down more quickly.
One such lump sum payment was made in October 2019, prompting a recalculation of the 
CMP for November. Due to a computing quirk, Halifaxs system didnt recognise the 
payment that was made on 20 November as being the CMP for that month. It treated it as an 
overpayment and then recorded the November CMP has being missed.
Mrs F and Mr Z complained, and in addition to taking the steps described above, Halifax 
suggested Mrs F and Mr Z set up a direct debit to avoid the possibility of it happening again. 
Our investigator thought Halifax had responded fairly to the complaint. Mrs F and Mr Z have 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
This case is simpler than its been made to look. I dont have to decide if something went 
wrong; all I have to decide if the steps taken already to put things right go far enough. 
Having read everything that both parties have said and provided, Im satisfied they do. 
Halifax removed the credit file entries, thus mitigating their possible impact on Mrs F and 
Mr Z. Its paid what I consider to be fair compensation for Mrs F and Mr Zs time and trouble. 
The available evidence doesnt point to them having suffered lasting financial harm that 
would warrant a further award. Lastly, it offered guidance on how to avoid a recurrence of 
the problem. 
Thats all Id expect of a business in a situation such as this. Having considered everything 
that both parties have said and provided, Im not persuaded that a fair outcome requires 
Halifax to pay Mrs F and Mr Z more redress than it has already paid.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman