DRN-2738619
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given unsuitable mortgage advice by Mortgage Master 
(Glasgow) Ltd (MMGL). Mr B is represented in bringing his complaint by a third party.
What happened and my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, in March 2021, explaining that I wasnt inclined to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
Mr B re-mortgaged in October 2007. He was advised by a mortgage broker from MMGL.
Prior to the re-mortgage, Mr B owed around £63,000 on his existing mortgage. This 
mortgage was on the lenders standard variable rate (SVR). He also owed approximately 
£5,800 on a personal loan and a further £1,800 on a credit card.
As part of the re-mortgage Mr B borrowed £71,989. He consolidated all of his existing 
borrowing and took new borrowing of just over £1,000. The remaining amount borrowed 
covered the costs of setting up the new mortgage.
In September 2019 Mr Bs representative complained to MMGL on his behalf. It said it felt 
the mortgage advice was unsuitable as it thought the unsecured borrowing should not have 
been consolidated. It also said that it felt the recommendation to move the borrowing to a 
different lender, and incur a product fee from the new lender, was unnecessary.
MMGL didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr B had approached it for advice as he wanted to 
reduce his monthly outgoings. Its records also indicated he was interested in a variable 
tracker interest rate. It felt the advice to consolidate the unsecured debt, extend the 
mortgage term by three years and to take the chosen mortgage achieved this, while also 
noting the interest rate was lower than what Mr B was already paying, and alternatives 
offered by his existing lender at the time. It also said its records showed that the alternatives 
offered by Mr Bs existing lender at the time would still have resulted in a product fee being 
charged.
Unhappy with this response the representative asked our service to consider the complaint. 
They said that they still considered the recommendation to consolidate borrowing unsuitable, 
that MMGL hadnt recommended the least expensive option and that they felt what MMGL 
had said about Mr Bs aims at the time was questionable. Mr Bs representative said that it 
didnt think the advice to take this tracker mortgage was suitable. It noted that the documents 
from MMGL indicated it had recommended a tracker as this was Mr Bs preference so that 
he could benefit from any reduction to the base rate. But the mortgage recommended 
tracked the lenders base rate, not that of the Bank of England. So, it said, he hadnt actually 
benefited in the way that hed apparently wanted to.
Ive been provided with a copy of a fact find completed by MMGL when it first met with Mr B 
to discuss his aims and preferences. This was signed by Mr B to say he agreed that the 
information recorded in it was accurate.
The fact find sets out, amongst other things, that Mr B wanted to consolidate debt to make 
outgoings more affordable, was interested in a variable rate and wanted to add any fees for 
the mortgage to the loan, again for affordability reasons.
Mr Bs representatives says it thinks some of this information is questionable.
Ive seen copies of Mr Bs current account statements from before the mortgage advice was 
given. These show that hed made regular use of his overdraft before the advice was taken, 
sometimes incurring fees for doing so. Its also been acknowledged by all parties that hed 
previously had some financial difficulties  indeed the fact find notes a judgement against 
Mr B a couple of years prior to the advice being taken. So, even though the information 
recorded indicates he did have some disposable income available to him, I think its entirely 
plausible that he was looking to free up additional income to improve his situation overall.
The information that Ive seen also indicates that Mr Bs existing mortgage had been on a 
variable rate before moving to the lenders SVR. So, it appears Mr B was familiar with, and 
had a history of taking, variable interest rates which I think means its likely hed be 
interested in potentially doing so again.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think the information recorded in the fact find  particularly 
bearing in mind that Mr B signed it and agreed it was correct  does likely reflect his aims 
and intentions at the time.
The fact find says that Mr B was paying £491 per month towards his existing mortgage. On 
top of this he was paying approximately £100 towards his credit card and £160 towards his 
personal loan. The mortgage recommended, which consolidated these debts, had monthly 
repayments of roughly £440  based on the interest rate at the time of the recommendation. 
So, it achieved Mr Bs aim of significantly reducing his outgoings and increasing his 
disposable income.
Mr Bs representatives say that this was unsuitable as the total cost of consolidating the 
borrowing over the term of the mortgage was far greater than if he had been advised not to 
do so and just continue to pay these debts off. I agree that the total cost over the life of the 
mortgage wouldve been higher. But that alone doesnt mean that the advice was unsuitable. 
Mr B indicated a need to decrease his outgoings. And while the income and expenditure 
information provided indicated that he had some disposable income, the operation of his 
current account supports why he was keen, and mayve had the need, to make savings. The 
recommended mortgage achieved that aim. And there was no guarantee that Mr B wouldve 
been able to maintain the repayments to the unsecured borrowing, at the level that he was at 
the time of the advice  particularly if he needed to make savings.
MMGL has also provided evidence to show that the cost of consolidating the unsecured debt 
was made clear to Mr B. It has provided copies of illustrations it says were produced 
showing details of the borrowing with the balance consolidated and if Mr B just re-mortgaged 
his existing outstanding balance. These set out the total cost of borrowing in both scenarios, 
so Mr B could compare the differences.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the recommendation to consolidate the unsecured 
borrowing was unsuitable in the circumstances. And in any event, I think Mr B was given 
clear information about the cost involved, so he was able to make a fully informed choice 
before proceeding.
Mr Bs representatives have also said that the advice was unsuitable because of the costs 
involved in changing lender. It says he shouldve been recommended to stay with his 
existing lender and avoided these costs.Mr Bs existing mortgage was on his lenders SVR. The interest rate on the mortgage 
recommended by MMGL was significantly lower than the previous lenders SVR. So, there 
was a benefit to him in moving lender. And while Mr Bs representatives have said that he 
couldve obtained a new rate with his lender without incurring any costs, I havent seen 
anything to support this. The information Ive seen suggests that even a rate switch with 
Mr Bs existing lender wouldve resulted in him incurring costs such as product fees, 
comparable to those incurred. And from what Ive seen the interest rates available with his 
existing lender were higher than that of the mortgage he eventually took. So, I dont think the 
advice by MMGL to move to a different lender was unsuitable.
As well as saying that Mr B shouldve been told to stay with his existing lender, his 
representative also said he shouldve been recommended an alternative new lender to the 
one MMGL did recommend. It said this because the evidence of market research from the 
time that MMGL has provided indicates there were options available with lower interest rates 
or lower product fees.
From what Ive seen, the mortgages available with lower interest rates than the one 
recommended, came with higher up-front fees. Given Mr Bs representatives think it was 
inappropriate for him to incur any fees, Im not clear why it thinks it wouldve been right for 
him to take one of these instead. I can see there were options available with lower up-front 
fees. But the trade-off there was a higher interest rate. Im also conscious that there is no 
evidence that these other mortgages allowed fees to be added to the balance, rather than 
paid up front  something which the fact find indicated Mr B was keen on. The mortgage 
recommended by MMGL also had other incentives included for Mr B  including free legal 
work. And there again isnt any evidence that the other mortgages available for a lower up- 
front cost offered this  meaning the overall cost could in fact have been higher. So, I dont 
think, based on the information available to me, the recommendation of this mortgage 
compared to others available was unsuitable.
Mr Bs representatives also question the suitability of the mortgage because of the nature of 
the initial interest rate deal. Specifically, that the rate didnt track the Bank of England base 
rate but instead tracked the lenders base rate  which it has likened to a discounted 
standard variable rate. So, theyve said Mr B did not in fact benefit from reductions in the 
base rate  which was one of the needs identified in the fact find.
One thing I think it is important to say is that the lenders base rate is not the same as its 
standard variable rate for mortgages. They are two different rates  both set by the lender. 
The mortgage offer sent to Mr B confirms this as it says the interest rate will track the 
lenders base rate for two years before reverting to the lenders Home Loan Rate. The 
Home Loan Rate being the lenders standard variable rate.
From the information Ive reviewed it appears that the lenders base rate did in fact reflect 
changes in the Bank of England base rate when they took place. So, I think Mr B has 
benefitted from changes in the base rate during the initial interest rate deal, as per his 
needs. And I dont agree with his representative that this base rate was linked to or 
represented a discounted standard variable rate.
The mortgage suitability letter MMGL sent Mr B does incorrectly say that the recommended 
mortgage tracks the Bank of England base rate. But for the reasons set out above, while that 
statement was technically wrong, I dont think Mr B has lost out at all as a result of it. And the 
mortgage offer itself contained correct information about the interest rate. So, I dont think 
MMGL needs to do anything to address this.
Finally, Mr Bs representative has also said the recommended mortgage was unsuitable 
because, at the expiry of the initial interest rate deal, the mortgage reverted to the lenders SVR and this was higher than the SVR of the previous lender. But I dont think this makes 
the advice to take out this mortgage unsuitable.
It is common industry practice for mortgages to revert to a lenders SVR after an interest rate 
deal ends  much like Mr Bs existing mortgage at the time of the advice had. So, I dont 
think this feature makes the recommended mortgage unsuitable.
The mortgage fact find also indicated that Mr B wanted an interest rate deal for 
approximately two years so that he could review the position after this amount of time and 
make changes penalty free should he choose to  which the recommended mortgage again 
allowed. I think it was reasonable for MMGL to assume Mr B would review his arrangements 
at the end of the rate deal recommended. If Mr B has not done so, whatever the reason for 
that may be, I dont think MMGL is responsible for that or that this makes the mortgage it 
recommended to him unsuitable. 
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
MMGL said it had nothing further to add.
Mr Bs representatives said they did not agree with my findings. 
They said that the letter of recommendation incorrectly said that the mortgage offered 
tracked the Bank of England base rate when it in fact tracked the lenders base rate. So, they 
felt Mr B had lost out and referenced the Bank of England base rate in 2020, compared to 
the rate Mr B was paying on his mortgage as evidence of this.
Mr Bs representatives have again said that the reversion rate for the recommended 
mortgage was higher than the rate that Mr B was paying on his existing mortgage (his 
existing lenders SVR) so it thinks this makes the advice unsuitable. They also disputed again 
that Mr B had a need to make savings, said that they thought the savings were not 
worthwhile and said that no approach was made to his existing lender. They also questioned 
the source of the information Id mentioned in relation to a previous judgement against Mr B 
 which I felt indicated previous financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not seen anything further that leads me to reach a different conclusion 
on Mr Bs complaint.
Mr Bs representatives have continued to question whether Mr B in fact needed to 
consolidate borrowing and make monthly savings based on its opinion now of his 
circumstances at the time. I appreciate this is his representatives opinion now, some 
fourteen years after the advice was given. But for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
findings, summarised above, Im satisfied that the information available, from the time that 
the mortgage advice was given, supports this being a requirement for Mr B and is likely an 
accurate reflection of his circumstances. Regarding the previous judgement I mentioned in 
my provisional findings, which I felt supported that Mr B had previously had difficulties with 
money in the past, this was noted on the third page of the mortgage fact find.I note Mr Bs representatives continue to argue that taking a new rate with his existing lender 
wouldve been cheaper. But the evidence that Ive seen doesnt support this. 
Mr Bs representatives have again argued that the reversion rate for the recommended 
mortgage (the new lenders SVR) was higher than the SVR he was currently paying, making 
the advice unsuitable. I agree the SVR for the new lender does appear to have been higher 
at the time that the advice was given. But this was the rate to be paid after the initial interest 
rate deal  not the rate that MMGL recommended Mr B move to. MMGL recommended a 
rate, for a period of two years, that was better than the rate Mr B was paying at the time he 
asked for advice. And, as I said in my provisional findings, it recommended a rate for a 
period of two years to allow Mr B the flexibility to review his arrangements when this deal 
ended. If Mr B has chosen not to do so, I dont think that means the original advice was 
unsuitable.
As I said in my provisional findings, I agree the recommendation letter from MMGL 
incorrectly said the mortgage recommended tracked the Bank of England base rate when it 
in fact tracked the lenders base rate. But the mortgage offer provided to Mr B, contained the 
correct information about which rate the recommended mortgage followed. And Ive seen 
information which indicates that, for the period the mortgage recommended tracked the 
lenders base rate (two years), the lenders base rate did in fact track the Bank of England 
base rate. So, while this statement was technically incorrect, the mortgage did in fact 
function as described. So, I dont think Mr B has lost out as a result of this.
Mr Bs representatives have disputed that the lenders base rate tracked the Bank of England 
base rate, citing the interest Mr B was paying in 2020. But the mortgage recommended by 
MMGL only tracked the lenders base rate for two years. That is made clear in the mortgage 
offer. After that it reverted to the lenders Home Loan Rate  its standard variable rate 
(SVR). The SVR does not track the Bank of England base rate. But Ive not seen anything to 
show that MMGL ever suggested it did. So, I dont think the rates Mr Bs representative has 
quoted from 2020 are relevant, as the information provided to Mr B about the mortgage 
didnt, in my view, ever indicate that the mortgage would continue to track the Bank of 
England base rate, beyond 2009.
So, taking everything into account, I think the mortgage recommended to Mr B by MMGL 
was suitable for him based on everything that Ive seen and what I know about his 
circumstances at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman