DRN-4006990
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a mortgage application he made to Cabot Court Financial 
Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages. He is unhappy the application was declined 
and believes discrimination was behind the rejection of the application and the resultant 
losses he suffered. 
Mr M wants Precise to refund the costs he incurred  legal, broker and valuation fees  
along with a compensation payment for the unfair and discriminatory treatment he has 
suffered.
What happened
In the summer of 2022 Mr M approached an independent mortgage broker for mortgage 
advice. The broker recommended a mortgage with Precise and it issued a decision in 
principle (DIP) at that time. He subsequently put in a full application on 2 August 2022. On 
6 October 2022 the application was declined. Mr M complained.
Precise responded to the complaint in its letter of 8 November 2022. It highlighted that the 
DIP didnt guarantee a full application would be accepted and any such application would be 
subject to a full assessment by Precises underwriters. It confirmed that there were concerns 
about the transparency of the overall transaction. Precise also confirmed it was not required 
to disclose specifics about its decision to decline the application. 
Mr M didnt accept Precises response and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. When he did, he told us that he believes the application was declined 
because of discrimination due to his nationality and because Precise didnt want to honour 
the interest rate product he had booked, due to the expected increase in interest rates. Mr M 
also told us that his hopes of buying a property have been dashed for the foreseeable future 
due to changes in the mortgage market and to government assistance schemes. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. He explained the purpose of a DIP and that it didnt commit a lender to lend. He 
confirmed that we could not release details about Precises lending criteria, but having 
reviewed the information provided, he was satisfied the application had been subject to 
Precises normal assessment and Mr M had not been treated any differently from any other 
applicant. In relation to Mr Ms concern that he hadnt been given a clear, specific answer as 
to why his application was declined, the Investigator confirmed that Precise didnt have to 
provide that information, again because lending criteria and policies are commercially 
sensitive and not something we would expect a lender to release to an applicant.
Mr M didnt accept the Investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred to 
an Ombudsman for consideration. He said that he thought the application process was 
unfair, unclear and misleading in relation to the practice of issuing DIPs that need 
verification, rather than undertaking a full assessment immediately. This means that 
significant sums of money are required to be paid in advance in the form of valuation, 
product and legal fees, which he considers is unfair on applicants. In addition, he maintained 
that no clarity had been provided about how Precise had applied its lending policy to his 
application and what evidence was provided to us, particularly in relation to his claim of 
discrimination based on his nationality. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially respond to Mr Ms comments about the concept of and practice of issuing 
DIPs being unfair. Our role is to consider individual complaints between customers and 
financial services businesses. We have no power to tell a financial business what processes 
and procedures it should have in place, let alone determine what an entire business sector 
should or shouldnt do. That is the role of the industry Regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. As such, while Mr M doesnt like the process of DIPs being issued, with a 
subsequent full assessment of an application, that is not something I can make findings on. 
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling regarding this complaint. Id like to assure him that I 
have read and considered everything hes told us. I understand our Investigators findings 
were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of 
one party or the other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the facts and all the 
submissions made by both parties. We look at what happened and decide whether, bearing 
in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, the lender acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Our Investigator explained the role of a DIP, so I wont repeat it again, but quite simply, the 
DIP should not have been taken as a guarantee that Precise would lend to Mr M. His broker 
would have explained this to him at the time of the application, and it was confirmed in the 
DIP document. It is unfortunate that Mr M believed the issuing of a DIP meant something 
more than it did, but I cant hold Precise responsible for that misunderstanding. 
A lender is not obliged to explain to an applicant why it has declined their application and so 
I cant find that Precise acted inappropriately in not providing a detailed explanation of its 
reason. Often when this happens it is because in order to provide a detailed explanation the 
lender would have to give the applicant commercially sensitive information. It is accepted 
that lending criteria is commercially sensitive and so it is not something we would expect a 
lender to share with a potential applicant or existing borrower. 
That said, Precise has provided us with information about its lending criteria and its 
assessment of the application, which means that we are aware of the reason the application 
was declined. This service is allowed to accept evidence in confidence, and I am satisfied 
this is a case where it is appropriate for us to do so. As such, it would not be appropriate for 
us to provide Mr M with a copy of the information we have or provide him with more detail 
about the decision. However, I can confirm that having considered the evidence, I am 
satisfied that Precise completed its assessment of Mr Ms application fairly and the decision 
it reached was a reasonable one. I can also assure Mr M that his nationality was not a factor 
in his application being declined, nor was the decision influenced because Precise didnt 
want to lend on the interest rate he had applied for.As for the costs Mr M incurred and didnt receive a refund from, the only one that was 
directly the responsibility of Precise was the valuation fee. When an application is assessed 
fully it is not just the borrower that is assessed, but also the property they want to buy. This 
is to ensure that it is suitable security for the money being borrowed. As lenders are not 
property experts they employ suitably qualified external experts to complete the assessment 
of the property and determine its value. Such experts have to be paid and that is what the 
valuation fee is payable for. Once the valuation is completed, the fee is not refundable, 
which was made clear at the application stage. As such, I cant find the valuation fee should 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
22 November 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman