DRN-3299478
The complaint
Mr H complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to send written notification 
that his investment in a High-Income fund had been transferred to a cash account. He says 
he has suffered a financial loss and asks to be compensated.
What happened
Mr H held a pension which was invested in a High-Income Fund. Aviva closed the 
investment and transferred his funds to a cash account in March 2020. Mr H didnt become 
aware of this until the second quarter of 2021.
Aviva says it sent notification of the closure to Mr Hs online account on 13 February 2020 
and then sent him further correspondence on 15 April 2020 to confirm that the account had 
been closed. Aviva says it also sent Mr Hs advisor notification of this and regular statements 
though the post which reflected his investment holdings
Mr H complained that Aviva didnt mail this correspondence to him. He also said it wasnt 
reasonable to expect the investor to log on to their online account to check this information. 
In its final response dated 5 August 2021, Aviva didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and said that 
theyd notified him of the closure of the account in line with the terms of the plan. 
Dissatisfied, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. She didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In her view, 
Aviva had complied with the terms and conditions of the online account Mr H had signed up 
to and followed its policies and procedures. She didnt agree Aviva should compensate Mt H 
for any financial loss he felt he may have suffered.
Mr H disagreed. In summary, he didnt agree Aviva had followed its own terms and 
conditions citing page 5, para 4
We will write to your Adviser to inform them of any corporate actions & will also contact you 
if it is necessary for you to take any action.
He also says there is no evidence Aviva contacted his advisor and points to a number of 
other organisations, all of whom create an alert to a notification being posted on an online 
account.
He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr H, Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Aviva. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive looked closely at the terms and conditions of the online pension portfolio Mr H signed up 
to. It clearly states that this is an adviser led platform. That means it is aimed at Avivas 
clients with advisers, indeed it requests any clients who no longer have an adviser contact 
them immediately. The platform allows both advisers and clients to access details of the 
investments held on it.
The terms and conditions go onto say that in opening the pension portfolio the client agrees 
to Aviva making information available to both the client, the adviser and Aviva from within the 
online platform.
On page 17 there is a specific reference to Fund Closures which says:
In the event that a Fund manager closes a Fund, or we are unable to continue 
adrninistering Investments in a Fund and this affects you, We will, where possible, notify 
Your Adviser or You and request reinvestment instructions 30 days in advance. We will do 
this unless external factors beyond our control mean that only a shorter notice period is 
possible. We reserve the right to move all assets held within the affected Fund
to cash pending reinvestment instructions from Your Adviser or You. We will not be held 
liable for any losses you may incur as a result of our action or whilst we are awaiting 
reinvestment instructions.
So, the online platform offer means that both Mr H, his adviser and Aviva can communicate 
through the platform. It is accessible to all parties and I can see Aviva notified the closure of 
the fund in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
I can also see from the regular statements that are sent through the post that the statement 
dated December 2019 clearly shows the investments held within the High-Income Fund. The 
notification was posted to the online platform on 13 February 2020 and the closure occurred 
on 15 April 2020 and subsequent statements detailing Mr Hs investments were held in cash 
thereafter.
I appreciate Mr H says he didnt check the online platform, nor that he fully understood his 
statements but that doesnt mean Aviva didnt send them or that it failed to comply with its 
terms and conditions. Further, Mr Hs adviser also had access to the online platform and 
could have checked it.
I also take Mr Hs point that other organisations send an alert or email notification of any 
posting to an online account and he would have liked the same service, but Aviva are not 
under an obligation to do this, unless Mr H specifically asked Aviva to do this because of any accessibility needs. This is because it isnt something that is offered within its online 
proposition so I cant hold it responsible for not doing something it didnt offer in the first 
place.
Ive listened to the telephone call between Aviva and Mr H. In it Mr H comments that he 
understands Aviva followed its own process but that its process isnt fit for purpose. Im not 
able to direct a business on how it should operate its own policies and procedures. My role 
here is to determine if Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in informing Mr H via the online 
platform of the closure of his Fund.
Im satisfied it did provide the proper notification and correctly followed the terms and 
conditions of the account. So, whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, Im not able to 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman