DRN-4518271
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his chargeback for damaged 
goods.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr J placed two orders for some tiles, from an online marketplace, using his 
Barclays debit card. The two orders were for £1,052.25 and £778.18 respectively. 
Although Mr J agreed to have the tiles delivered to a port, he was unhappy that he had to 
pay additional charges when the tiles arrived. After Mr J paid the additional charges, he 
arranged for the tiles to be delivered from the port to his home address. When he received 
the tiles, Mr J noticed some of the tiles were damaged. When he was unable to resolve this 
directly with the supplier, he contacted Barclays.
On 29 January 2023 Barclays raised two separate chargebacks for £1,052.25 and £778.18.
On 12 February 2023 Barclays received a letter from the merchant defending the 
chargebacks. In summary it explained the additional costs, associated with the tiles arriving 
at the port, were Mr Js responsibility, and that he was already made aware of these costs. 
The merchant also said it told Mr J to check the products before signing for the tiles, but as 
Mr J didnt do this, the merchant didnt think it had caused any errors.
On 21 February 2023 Barclays wrote to Mr J and said the merchant had tried to take the 
disputed payment from his account again. Barclays said it had rejected it, but if the merchant 
contested this, it could send his case to VISA for a decision.
On 13 March 2023 a pre-arbitration response was received from the merchant. In summary 
it said the transport company used by Mr J to deliver the tiles, from the port to his address, 
was responsible for the damage. The merchant mentioned how Mr J didnt report the 
damage until eight days after the tiles were delivered, nor had he provided any images of the 
damage. The merchant also said Mr J didnt return the tiles, and why it didnt think Mr J 
asking for its address, was an attempt to return the tiles. For these reasons, the merchant 
didnt think the chargebacks were valid.
On 17 March 2023 Barclays told Mr J it wasnt able to recover the disputed payments, so 
couldnt give him a refund.
On 20 March 2023 Mr J wrote to Barclays. In summary, he remained unhappy about the 
additional fees he paid at the port and said these werent outlined to him as the merchant 
had suggested. Mr J didnt consider the transport company who delivered the tiles from the 
port to his address was responsible for the damage, and thought it was due to the 
merchants poor packaging. Mr J also explained that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, 
he was entitled to a refund and/or compensation when goods were faulty, or not as 
described, irrespective of transportation. With regard to the reporting of the damage, Mr J 
said he wasnt informed about the timescales for doing so, and in terms of returning the tiles 
he thought the merchant should cover the cost for this.
On 26 March 2023 Mr J wrote to Barclays again saying he was unhappy with the outcome of 
the chargebacks. He thought the merchant was given preferential treatment, as it had two 
chances to present its case, whilst he was given only one. He also thought the merchants 
second response letter was largely false and misleading and didnt think this was considered 
during the dispute resolution process.
On 5 May 2023 Barclays sent Mr J a final response letter. It said there had been no bank 
error made with the chargeback disputes and it had followed all of the process correctly as 
per VISAs terms and conditions.
When Mr J referred his complaint to our service, the investigator didnt uphold it. She said it 
was for Barclays to decide if it had sufficient grounds to take the cases to the final stage of 
arbitration. She didnt think it had made any errors, by closing the claims, and didnt think 
Barclays couldve done anymore especially as Mr J hadnt returned the tiles.
Mr J was unhappy. In summary he explained he didnt return the titles, as it would have 
exceeded £2,500, which was more than the original purchase price. He thought this was 
unreasonable especially as the merchant was unwilling to cover the postage costs. Mr J 
maintained Barclays had failed to provide an explanation for closing the claim against him 
and felt the chargebacks shouldve gone further.
As both parties couldnt agree, the case has been referred to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision which has been set out below:
I think it is worth underlining here that I am deciding what is fair based on the actions of 
Barclays in assisting with the dispute and not the underlying dispute Mr J has with the 
supplier. Barclays did not supply the goods and services so when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable here, I am considering whether it acted fairly in its role as a provider of financial 
services.
When a card payment is made there are usually two main avenues to consider regarding a 
dispute about what was purchased. Section 75 and chargeback. However, in the case of a 
debit card, Section 75 does not apply. I note that a debit card was used here so I consider 
only chargeback to be relevant.
Chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be refunded in a 
number of situations, such as where the goods are defective, as in this case.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
And chargeback is not a guaranteed method of getting a refund because chargebacks may 
be defended by merchants. Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the 
card scheme's rules  in this case VISAs  and not the relative merits of the 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Barclays  or me  to make a finding about the 
merits of Mr Js dispute with the online retailer.
Barclays role is to raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed defence 
by the merchant complies with the relevant chargeback rules. And from what Ive seen, 
thats what Barclays did here.
It raised both chargebacks fairly quickly, after Mr J first contacted it. When the chargebacks 
were then defended, it took both chargeback disputes to pre-arbitration. Following the merchants lengthy response back, suggesting Mr J didnt have a valid chargeback claim, 
Barclays considered this defence was enough to not pursue the chargebacks further.
Ive considered the relevant chargeback rules and Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly 
here. When reviewing the evidence from the merchant, in response to the chargebacks, I 
consider the defence was strong, and had the chargebacks been considered further by 
Barclays, I am not persuaded there was a reasonable prospect of success.
I say this because firstly as the merchant suggested, there is uncertainty surrounding who 
was responsible for the damage caused to the tiles. I can see the supplier delivered the tiles 
to the port, but Mr J then used a separate third-party company to deliver the tiles from the 
port to his home address. By Mr Js own admission, he didnt check the tiles at the port, and 
so it cant be said with any certainty when the damage to the tiles occurred, or who was 
responsible for it.
The merchants defence also suggested that it didnt agree Mr J had a valid claim, as the 
tiles werent returned. The scheme rules do specify that under the code for goods/services 
not as described or defective merchandise, one of the requirements for a valid chargeback is 
for the goods to have been returned or attempted to return. 
I appreciate what Mr J has said about the costs of returning the tiles becoming more than the 
initial purchase price. Unfortunately, the VISA scheme rules dont allow for exceptions such 
as this and the tiles wouldve needed to be returned under the scheme rules for a valid 
chargeback to apply.
I appreciate Mr J also provided further submissions and is unhappy that the chargebacks 
werent considered further. However, this is a complex dispute with the supplier strongly 
contesting the customer account and vice versa. I also dont consider that under the code for 
damaged or defective goods the chargebacks would have had a reasonable prospect of 
success based on what Mr J has said and what hes provided as explained above. And so, I 
dont think Barclays has done anything wrong by not taking the chargebacks further.
Additional charges
Mr J has mentioned the additional charges he paid for the tiles at the port. However, 
chargeback is limited to particular and specific chargeback rules and can only possibly 
recover the amount paid on the card. Unlike section 75 for example, a chargeback doesnt 
cover additional losses to the original transaction. And so, the additional charges which Mr J 
has spoken about are not available through these rules.
Mr J has also referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and that he can make a claim under 
this. But I confirm that this Act refers to goods and services bought by credit. Mr J used his 
debit card and didnt pay for the tiles using a form of credit. So, this doesnt apply in his case 
either.
So, taking everything into account, Im persuaded that Barclays took the claims as far as it 
reasonably couldve done, given the merchants defence. In view of this, theres nothing 
more for Barclays to do.
I know that Mr J will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive concluded that Barclays doesnt need to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint and dont consider Barclays Bank UK PLC did anything wrong in not considering his 
chargebacks further.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions. 
Barclays didnt respond and Mr J didnt agree with my findings. In summary Mr J said:
He still considered the damage to the tiles were caused by the merchant and not the 
transit hed used. 
He did attempt to return the tiles, but the merchant didnt facilitate the return process.
Barclays didnt handle his case fairly and he didnt think it had explained its decision 
or the chargeback process clearly. 
He encountered several challenges when providing evidence and wanted to be 
compensated for the lack of support, nancial loss, and distress hed incurred during 
the chargeback process.
There were several consumer protection laws which he felt were applicable to debit 
card transactions and he wanted his claims to be reconsidered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, much of what Mr J has said in response to my provisional decision has 
already been explored and explained in my provisional decision which I have outlined above 
and forms part of this final decision.
Mr J has mentioned several consumer protection laws which he considers should be taken 
into account when considering the chargeback disputes. Whilst some of these may be 
relevant to transactions, or the way payments are made, what Ive focussed on here is the 
dispute process under the chargeback scheme, and whether Barclays acted fairly in relation 
to the chargeback scheme, which Im satisfied isnt subject to additional laws. The rules of 
the scheme are governed by VISA here, and according to these rules, I consider Barclays 
took the steps I would've expected it to take when handling Mr J's chargeback requests. 
And, based on the information it had received from both Mr J and the merchant, I don't think 
it acted unfairly in deciding not to continue with the chargeback disputes when it did.
As Ive already covered the issues surrounding the cause of damage to the tiles, and the 
return process, I will not provide any further comments in relation to this.
With regard to Mr J saying he encountered challenges with submitting evidence and 
receiving poor service from Barclays, when I consider the timeline of events and Barclays 
communications with Mr J, overall, I think Barclays acted reasonably and so I wont be 
asking it to do anymore regarding this aspect either.
I realise that Mr J will be very disappointed with the outcome I have reached, but he is, of 
course, entitled to reject my decision and pursue action through alternative means, such as 
the courts which comes with its own risks and costs. He may wish to seek independent legal 
advice about this, as I am unable to advise on it. My final decision however brings to an end 
what I, and the Financial Ombudsman Service, can do for Mr J in relation to this matter.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman