DRN-4298543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) has unfairly 
handled a subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs L and Gresham includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this claim and complaint is extensive and is already well known between 
parties as well as detailed elsewhere. So, Ill summarise events.
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs L made a subsidence claim.
Gresham investigated this and established the removal of vegetation (with a tree protection 
order in place) owned by a local authority would be necessary to stabilise the property. 
Following a back and forth between parties, the tree was not removed.
In 2021 Gresham considered engineering solutions to resolve the subsidence.
Gresham put forward initial plans on how it intended to underpin the property. Gresham 
concluded it would deepen historic existing mass concrete underpinning to the front 
elevation of the property to resolve the subsidence.
Mr and Mrs L sought the expert opinion of Expert T. They produced a report and reached a 
different conclusion to Gresham on the extent of necessary underpinning works  believing 
Greshams plans would lead to risk of differential movement, and that to minimise this risk 
underpinning should be extended under a gable wall and the rear wall.
As Gresham disagreed, Mr and Mrs L also sought the expert opinion of Expert G. They 
recommended a provision of transitional stepped underpins extending back from the line of 
the main deep concrete underpins on the front elevation, along each of the respective 
abutting party wall elements.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this Service. This included a range of different 
concerns. Our Investigator upheld their complaint. A number of reviews and assessments 
took place, so I will outline each of the points that were previously agreed by Gresham and 
Mr and Mrs L so are no longer in dispute.
The Investigator said Gresham should have explored other avenues to resolve the 
subsidence earlier than it did. And that its actions and initial plans for repair that were 
insufficient had caused unnecessary delays. Awarding a sum of £1,500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs L. It agreed.
The Investigator said Mr and Mrs L had been unable to complete Party Wall works 
earlier due to Greshams delays. So, it should cover any reasonable additional costs 
due to the time that had passed. Gresham agreed to consider any financial losses Mr 
and Mrs L have incurred in relation to the Party Wall upon receipt of appropriate 
evidence.
The Investigator directed Gresham to consider alternative accommodation costs. It 
agreed it would pay any alternative accommodation costs in line with its policy terms 
and taking into account Mr and Mrs Ls specific circumstances.
Our Investigator said Gresham should professionally clean the property as part of the 
claim  it agreed.
Gresham should undertake an inventory with Mr and Mrs L of repair work related to 
the subsidence damage. Mr and Mrs L confirmed this took place.
There are also a number of issues still outstanding that Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with. 
These include:
Underpinning plans: Based on the expert opinions available, the Investigator said 
Greshams initial underpinning proposals appeared to carry significant risk of 
differential movement. Gresham agreed to abide by Expert Gs proposals  as well 
as pay Mr and Mrs L for any incurred costs of Expert G. The Investigator said 8% 
simple interest should be paid from the date Mr and Mrs L made payment to the date 
of reimbursement.
Gresham has most recently provided commentary to this Service to say:
we remain of the opinion that underpinning of the party wall returns is not 
required. Our underpinning scheme proposes to deepen the existing 
underpinning across the front elevation of [neighbouring property] to the same 
depth as the underpinning of [neighbouring property] 
Mr and Mrs L have put forward it is unfair for Gresham to change its position on this 
matter after it has agreed to follow Expert Gs proposal. Our investigator agreed.
Underpinning of the rear elevation: Our Investigator said Gresham should follow 
Expert Gs report and findings  which do not specify underpinning at the rear of the 
property is required, and instead discusses use of Helibars. Gresham said it would 
not look to carry out any further underpinning as a result, as a tree causing additional 
damage (separate from the main cause of subsidence) had been removed, so this 
wasnt necessary. 
Cracking to the rear elevation: Gresham did not agree to cover the rear of the 
property as it said its condition is not related to the subsidence claim in hand. Most 
recently saying:
Damage to the rear does not relate to the subsidence damage to the front 
according to [Expert G] and [Greshams surveyors]. So why should we consider 
further?
The Investigator stated this cracking had been included throughout the duration of 
the claim. And while it was related to a different cause, it was ultimately a subsidence 
claim so it wasnt fair at this stage to decline cover. She included quotes from 
Greshams own expert, as well as Expert G that made reference to use of Helibars at 
the rear of the property from May and June 2022. She also highlighted Greshams 
own steps to remove the other cause (the Laurel tree) as indication why it should 
take responsibility for this.
Expert Ts report and associated costs: Gresham said it would not cover Expert Ts 
costs as it didnt believe his report contributed in addition to Expert G. It said this 
provided no benefit and was duplication in places of Expert G. Our Investigator 
believed these costs should be covered as Expert T had highlighted concerns about 
Greshams works and it had an opportunity to re-review these at this time  but it 
didnt. So, this had led to the follow up review of Expert G to support their concerns.Legal costs incurred by Mr and Mrs L: Our Investigator did not agree it was 
necessary or a requirement for legal assistance to be appointed, so while they may 
have found this assistance helpful, she wasnt persuaded Gresham should cover 
these costs.
A specific timeframe on next steps: Gresham said it could not provide a specific 
timeframe on works beginning or being completed given the complexities on drawing 
up schedules, tendering process, Party Wall notices being issued, and builder lead in 
periods. The Investigator said it was reasonable for Gresham to provide a likely 
timeframe in the circumstances.
Since the complaint has been with this Service, Mr and Mrs L have also raised additional 
points including:
Requesting Gresham change its surveyor as they have lost faith in its ability.
A sketch of proposed underpinning has been produced by Gresham and shared with 
Mr and Mrs L. They have asked to provide commentary on this matter.
Assurance Gresham would reinsure Mr and Mrs L in the future.
Mr and Mrs L wish to stay in their second home as their alternative accommodation 
which they have asked Gresham to cover the costs of.
The Investigator made both parties aware the matter would be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. Mr and Mrs L have most recently provided further commentary from Mr G, 
Mr T and its own experts further highlighting their position on the matter and belief Mr Gs 
suggested works go ahead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Both Gresham and Mr and Mrs Ls submissions to this Service span many pages. Within this 
decision I wont be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a 
reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. This means I 
wont comment on everything Mr and Mrs L and Gresham have said but I can confirm I have 
read and considered everything said by both parties.
Issues no longer in dispute
As listed above, there are a number of matters that formed part of this complaint that 
have since been resolved. I dont intend on exploring these in detail as both parties 
appear satisfied with the outcome on these particular points. Suffice to say I am in 
agreement with our Investigator that Greshams claims handling wasnt in line with 
what wed expect, having delayed matters considerably by not engaging with other potential solutions to the subsidence after a reasonable period of time when it 
became clear the removal of vegetation at the front could not be done. It also seems 
clear to me that the original underpinning plans put forward by Gresham were 
insufficient in light of the other reports put forward. So, I think the compensation put 
forward of £1,500 is fair and reasonable sum to account for this.
Many of the remaining points Gresham has agreed to  considering alternative 
accommodation, potential additional costs related to the Party Wall and others  
relate to ongoing claims handling. So, while I agree with these in principle, I would 
expect Gresham to keep in mind its obligations to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Should these matters subsequently not be met to Mr and Mrs Ls satisfaction and 
they do complain and Gresham is unable to resolve these matters, it may be this 
Service will need to review these matters again.
Live issues
Underpinning plans: The detail behind the underpinning plans in this case have been 
discussed at length between parties. Following some back and forth and following 
our Investigators assessment, Gresham explicitly said it would agree to abide by 
Expert Gs proposals. Mr and Mrs L also agreed to this.
For clarity, these again were to include a provision of transitional stepped 
underpins extending back from the line of the main deep concrete underpins on the 
front elevation, along each of the respective abutting party wall elements.
This was accepted by all parties as a way forward. Most recently Gresham has put 
forward comments regarding the party wall not being necessary. And it has made 
reference to its own underpinning scheme. From what its presented, no new 
evidence or findings have come to light since it agreed to Expert Gs proposals 
previously.
I want to be clear this claim has been ongoing for many years. And across the life of 
the claim Gresham has had ample opportunity to put forward its position on all 
matters concerning the underpinning. So when it accepted Expert Gs findings, 
agreed to abide by them, and pay his respective costs, I think its fair and 
reasonable to consider this particular part of the dispute (regarding work to the party 
walls) to have been brought to an end. 
Mr and Mrs L have most recently provided some commentary from Expert G that 
simply reiterates his earlier position. So, Ive been given nothing to suggest that 
Gresham is seeking to rely on a changed view of Expert G. And as a result, simply, I 
am going to hold Gresham accountable for the previous agreement it made to abide 
by Expert Gs proposals. Alongside this I would also add, Im satisfied Expert Gs 
suggestion is the most appropriate works in the circumstances taking into account all 
of the reports and evidence put forward. So, I will be directing it to undertake the 
appropriate repairs, as proposed by Expert G previously. 
Underpinning of the rear elevation: As above, Im satisfied Expert Gs findings and 
proposal is a fair and reasonable solution to this complaint. Expert G did not make 
any proposal to underpin the rear of the property. And from what Ive been given from 
Gresham it appears the cause of the rear elevation movement (the Laurel tree) has 
been removed and the movement has stopped as a result. So, I will not be directing 
Gresham to carry out underpinning to this area. Gresham will need to carry out the 
necessary superstructure works to the rear of the property, including Helibars  as 
put forward by Expert G.
Cracking to the rear elevation: Gresham has accepted it investigated damage to the 
rear of Mr and Mrs Ls property and carried out remedial action as well as monitoring. So, it seems clear theres no dispute it was damaged by subsidence  albeit with a 
different cause to the front of the property. Our investigator has previously provided 
Gresham with a range of quotes from its own agent commenting on the necessary 
repairs to the rear of the property. So, it seems clear to me this matter was 
considered under this claim and seemingly this secondary cause of subsidence was 
resolved. The remaining matter is the repairs that are necessary to the rear elevation, 
now the cause of the damage has been removed.
Greshams most recent response appears to suggest it is not intending on doing 
anything further in relation to the damage at the rear of the property. In light of having 
appeared to have accepted it under the wider claim, investigated the matter, carried 
out repairs and monitoring, I do not believe it would be fair nor reasonable for 
Gresham to simply detach itself from this remaining damage and repairs at this late 
stage of the claim, nor to try to separate this out into a new issue. So, I will be 
directing Gresham to include any necessary repairs to Mr and Mrs Ls property 
related to the Laurel subsidence damage in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Expert Ts report and associated costs: Gresham has previously acknowledged that 
Expert Gs input has changed its position on the claim, and as a result that its initial 
proposals would be insufficient. And in doing so it agreed to cover Expert Gs costs.
Expert T was contacted prior to Expert G. And his report raised similar concerns to 
Expert Gs about Greshams proposed underpinning plans and the risks this placed 
on the property. So, I think this was significant as it shows Greshams plans were 
unlikely to provide a lasting and effective repair. This prompted a change in the claim, 
so it had a material impact on things. Expert Ts proposals differed from both 
Greshams and Expert Gs  recommending further underpinning. I recognise this 
proposal was not agreed to  and Expert Gs was. 
I think its inaccurate for Gresham to indicate that his findings were either not useful 
or a duplication of Expert Gs. I say this as, crucially, when Expert Ts findings were 
put to Gresham it had an opportunity to review its position and put forward alternative 
plans taking into account the concerns raised  which it didnt. And so, I think it was 
reasonable Mr and Mrs G sought the third opinion of Expert G. For these reasons Im 
going to direct Gresham Pay Mr and Mrs L for any costs invoiced up until the date of 
this decision, or already paid by them (proof to be provided to Gresham) related to 
the provision of the reports provided by Expert G and T.
Legal costs incurred by Mr and Mrs L: Mr and Mrs Ls representatives have put 
forward this Service should direct Gresham to cover the legal costs incurred by their 
legal representatives in bringing this complaint. I take into account the points theyve 
made. But while I acknowledge this claim and the complaint will have had its 
complexities, in my view, the core issues above havent required particular legal input 
or opinion in bringing the complaint to this Service. So, while I dont doubt it will have 
alleviated some of the stress and frustration caused to Mr and Mrs L, and been 
helpful to them, Im not persuaded or satisfied that this representation was 
necessary. So, it follows Im not persuaded to direct Gresham to cover these costs. 
A specific timeframe on next steps: Mr and Mrs L have asked for specific timeframes 
on next steps given the timeframes this claim has already been ongoing for. 
Gresham has said it has been unable to provide a specific timeframe on works 
beginning or being completed given the complexities on drawing up schedules, 
tendering process, Party Wall notices being issued, and builder lead in periods. 
Taking these points into account, Im in agreement that a specific timeframe set by 
this Service may become impossible for reasons outside of Greshams control. So I 
will not be setting a particular deadline as Mr and Mrs L have asked for. However, I 
would remind Gresham again of its obligations to handle this claim promptly and fairly as it takes it forward. Should any unnecessary delays occur going forward, this 
again may well be considered in any such follow up complaint.
Additional points raised since the complaint came to this Service
Mr and Mrs L have asked Gresham to change its surveyor as they have lost faith in 
its ability. They also had comments to make regarding Greshams underpinning 
sketch. And sought assurance that Gresham would reinsure Mr and Mrs L in the 
future and about its treatment of future alternative accommodation. 
I want to be clear that this Service is not here to handle claims on an ongoing basis. 
And so, these matters will need to be addressed with Gresham in the first instance, 
as they fall outside of the scope of this complaint, or relate to matters that have 
happened long after Mr and Mrs L first brought to this Service. Should Gresham not 
resolve Mr and Mrs Ls complaints about these matters, it may be this Service will 
need to investigate them in a follow up complaint in the future  but I will leave this to 
Gresham in the first instance to pick up.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, I uphold this complaint. I direct Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs L £1,500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them in handling this claim (if it has not already done so).
Professionally clean the property as part of the claim.
Gresham must undertake the appropriate repairs as proposed by Expert G 
previously. This will include
oThe provision of transitional stepped underpins extending back from the line 
of the main deep concrete underpins on the front elevation, along each of the 
respective abutting party wall elements;
oAny necessary works to the rear of the property  including use of Helibars as 
put forward by Expert G.
Within its scope of repairs under this claim, Gresham must include any necessary 
repairs to the rear of Mr and Mrs Ls property related to the Laurel tree subsidence 
damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr and Mrs L for any costs invoiced up until the date of this decision, or already 
paid by them (proof to be provided to Gresham) related to the provision of the reports 
provided by Expert G and T. Gresham must pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr 
and Mrs L made payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman