DRN-2776888
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) sent him a persistent debt 
letter and then game him no help with his debt.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card from Nationwide with a limit of £2500. In September 2018, 
Nationwide sent to him a persistent debt letter. He repaid and closed his account in 
November 2020.
Mr W complained that he found the persistent debt letter distressing. And when he called 
Nationwide about it they didnt help him. He asked for his interest rate to be reduced, but 
Nationwide only said that he should increase his repayments  and the only way they could 
reduce the interest rate was if he went on a payment arrangement  which would be noted 
on his credit file  which he didnt want. He said they didnt engage with him when he asked 
about consolidating his debts.
Nationwide said the persistent debt letter used wording laid down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and was sent in line with regulatory requirements. The letter said that 
because Mr W was paying more in interest and fees than his monthly payments, his debt 
might take longer to clear, and he should consider increasing his payments. Nationwide 
would consider a reduction in interest rates if Mr W was in financial difficulty, in which case 
he would go onto a payment plan  but this would be noted on his credit file.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Nationwide had acted 
reasonably. When Mr W called Nationwide, he said he could make the monthly payments, 
but asked that they reduce his interest rate.  It was fair for Nationwide to say they could only 
do this if he went onto a payment arrangement  and then if he was in financial difficulty. But 
the information he gave Nationwide suggested he wasnt in difficulty  as he was making the 
monthly payments. He agreed that Mr W mentioned that he might want to consolidate his 
debts  but there wasnt a discussion about this taken forward.
Mr W asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said that he found the persistent debt letter distressing  and that on the back of it, 
Nationwide shouldve offered him more support and help  by reducing the interest rate on 
his card. He also says that they shouldve been able to look into his whole circumstances 
and offer ways to help him by consolidating his debts.
Ive looked at the persistent debt letter. As Nationwide have said, the wording of this was laid 
down by the FCA. Its intention was to say to customers that, over a period, their monthly 
payments were less than they were paying in interest and fees  so the debt would take a 
long time to repay. And therefore, they should consider increasing the payments. This was 
so customers dont find themselves in a spiralling debt situation which they cant afford. And 
thats what Mr Ws letter said. It says Were getting in touch because over the past 18 
months, youve paid more in interest, charges and fees than you did repaying your credit 
card debt. Just so you know, if you dont pay more than the minimum amount each month, 
you can end up paying back more over a longer period of time. But - Mr W found it 
distressing  and I can see how he might have thought this as it does say Were sorry but if 
you dont increase your payments, we could end up having to suspend your credit card.
But equally, the letter also pointed out what Mr W should do if he wanted help: We really 
want to help you with this which is why were contacting you now. And Please dont 
hesitate to call us on xxxxxx if paying more every month will cause you any financial 
difficulties or if you have money worries. You can also find where to get independent help by 
turning over this letter (where it showed independent debt advice contacts).
Mr W called Nationwide in September 2018. Ive seen a review of that call. On it, Mr W 
asked for his interest rate to be reduced. But  he also said he could afford the monthly 
payments. He said he wasnt in financial difficulty. The call agent mentioned an income and 
expenditure form  but this wasnt felt to be needed either. He didnt want a block on new 
purchases being put on his account  which wouldve been the case if hed gone onto to a 
payment arrangement. So  given what Mr W told Nationwide, I dont think it would be fair to 
expect them to conclude Mr W was in financial difficulty and needed help. Mr W told us that 
he could only make the payments by missing meals and not buying food  but there was 
nothing in the call that suggested he told Nationwide this  and in all fairness, they cant be 
expected to know that if Mr W didnt tell them so.
If Nationwide had been asked by Mr W for help because he told them he was in financial 
difficulty  they might have agreed a payment plan with him. This might have included a 
reduced interest rate and lower payments  but he would have had to complete an income 
and expenditure form so they could see what he could afford to pay. Also, they were right to 
say that Mr Ws card would have to be suspended  they would normally do this to stop 
customers from getting into more debt.  And they were right to say that this would be noted 
on his credit file  all businesses, including Nationwide, must report such information the 
credit reference agencies  thats an obligation. So  Nationwide were correct in what they 
told Mr W here.
Mr W says he asked for help in consolidating his debts. Theres one reference to this on the 
call  and the caller says they were unsure whether Nationwide could help. This wasnt 
particularly good service  but equally, Mr W didnt appear to push the point or put forward 
any figures regarding what he wanted to do  so on balance, I dont think Nationwide 
couldve helped much more here.
So  and I know that Mr W will be disappointed by this  I think that Nationwide acted 
reasonably, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman