DRN-4521145
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs W complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted their joint 
account on two separate occasions without explanation  and then closed it. They say this 
has caused severe distress and inconvenience, financial loss and adverse impact to their 
credit file.
What happened
This complaint only deals with Mr O and Mrs Ws joint account. Mr O and Mrs Ws sole 
accounts are being handled under separate complaint references at this service.
On 29 April 2022, NatWest blocked Mr O and Mrs Ws joint account. The restriction was 
removed on 12 May 2022. Mr O and Mrs W complained to NatWest.
In its responses, NatWest said it had taken this action in line with its regulatory obligations 
and terms of account. And it doesnt have to provide an explanation for doing so. NatWest 
accepted it had provided poor customer service and apologised.
Mrs W moved her incoming benefit payments to her sole current account with NatWest at 
this point  this included her disability benefits.
On 30 June 2022, NatWest restricted this account again. The restriction was lifted on 
31 August 2022. Mr O and Mrs W complained about this second block. NatWest reiterated 
that it had taken this action in line with its regulatory obligations and terms of account. And 
as it had followed the right process, NatWest doesnt need to do anything about Mr O and 
Mrs Ws credit rating being impacted because of them missing standing orders and direct 
debit payments.
On 1 September 2022, NatWest told Mr O and Mrs W that all their accounts, including this 
joint one, would be closed on 31 October 2022. NatWest gave two months notice of its 
intention do this.
Mr O and Mrs W say NatWests actions have had a significant impact upon them. Some of 
the key points they make are:
- The joint account was their main account into which their income and benefits went, 
and all their essential bills were paid from
- They have a young child, and were unable to provide food for themselves due to not 
having access to their funds
- NatWest suggested Mrs W use funds in her savings account, but they were 
earmarked for solicitors fees as they were in the process of buying a home 
imminently in June 2022
- The block and the impact of falling into poor credit caused significant worry and upset 
as they thought they would lose out on being able to get a mortgage
- Their credit scores with credit reference agencies have been adversely affected to 
the point theyve nearly halved
- Mr O has had to lie that he was unwell as he couldnt afford petrol or pay for client 
lunches. Hes also had to take out a high-cost loan to make ends meet and pay for 
their daughters uniform
- They fell behind with their rent in June and July 2022 before purchasing their new 
home
Our Investigator then started looking into Mr O and Mrs Ws complaint. Amongst other 
things, they asked them to provide evidence of incurring fees and charges from their 
creditors as a result of not being able to make payments. Mr O and Mrs W have sent:
- A screenshot to show Mr O incurred a £12 missed payment fee for a credit card 
payment due on 11 August 2022 that left the account in arrears of around £40
- A screenshot showing a payment for car insurance, and a letter for home insurance, 
were not paid by direct- debit in July 2022
- A direct debit payment of around £240 and another for £50 to separate creditors 
failed in July 2022. Also, a failed direct debit payment for their TV licence failed in 
August 2022
- Payment schedule for housing related payments for August and September 2022
- An undated screenshot of Mr O opening a credit line of up to £890 with a high-cost 
loan company
- Unpaid direct debit fees for Mrs Ws hire purchase agreement dated 12 July 2022, 10 
August 2022, and 22 August 2022, all for £5. Also, the same company charged 
Mrs W £15 a default charge on 30 August 2022
- A non-headed screenshot showing 13 missed payments in 2022, and another 
showing six missed payments for 2023. Mrs W says this represents her credit file
- A screenshot showing a credit card was being defaulted in December for payments 
being three months in arrears
NatWest told our Investigator that it should have removed the second restriction on the day it 
was applied on 30 June 2022 - but it failed to do so. NatWest accept it had made an error. 
Because of this it offered Mr O and Mrs W £250 for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused. Mr O and Mrs W didnt accept this as a resolution to their complaint.
NatWest then said it would refund all the fees and charged it applied from 30 June 2022 
onwards. For Mr O and Mrs Ws joint account, these totalled £24.55.
Our Investigator then sent both parties their outcome to this complaint. In relation to this joint 
account, and in summary, they found:
- The first block in April 2022 was applied in line with the terms of the account, and 
regulatory obligations NatWest must meet. The review and block were done correctly 
and without delay
- The second block applied in June 2022 was not done correctly. So compensation for distress and inconvenience will be considered for that period only  30 June 2022 
until 31 August 2022
- Mr O and Mrs W should have mitigated against not having access to their joint 
account, so though the block affected their ability to make payments in July 2022, 
they should have made the payments in August 2022 from other sources. Mr O had 
access to his sole account during this time
- Mr O and Mrs W have provided evidence they were charged £30 in penalty and 
charged for missed payments. This along with the charges NatWest applied - £24.55 
for the joint account should be refunded. NatWests overall offer including these 
charges, of around £300 is fair redress
NatWest agreed with what our Investigator said. Mr O and Mrs W did not. Some of the main 
points they made were:
- NatWests actions put them a month behind with payments even though they had 
access to other accounts. Mr O received his wage into the joint account, and they 
couldnt transfer this money across to another account due to the restriction
- How could they have made payments from alternative accounts for August payments 
when they had no idea what was going on with their account
- Mrs W has a neuro-diversity condition which exacerbated her stress and anxiety for 
having to deal with changing payments
- The impact NatWests actions had on their lives, credit score, mental health and 
future ability to borrow money isnt justified in the compensation amount
- Its disappointing that NatWest can behave in this way, not giving any notice nor 
explanation for its actions
As Mr O and Mrs W didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent 
both parties my first provisional decision on this complaint. For ease of reference, here is 
what I said I was planning to decide:
First provisional decision  sent October 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr O, Mrs W and NatWest 
have said before reaching my decision.
Its important to note, and as I said earlier, that my decision focuses only on NatWests actions in regard to Mr O and Mrs Ws joint current account.
Banks in the UK, like NatWest, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
When carrying out such a review banks are under no obligation, that Im aware of, to explain 
why it has taken the action is has. This includes when restricting an account. But if a 
complaint about it is referred to this service, then NatWest should show us what those 
reasons are - and the evidence its relied on to support any concerns it has. That way we 
can determine if NatWest has acted in line with its obligations and done so fairly and 
reasonably.
Despite several requests to NatWest to give us the information we need to decide this 
complaint, it has failed to do so. That means I dont have enough information to conclude 
either of the blocks NatWest applied were done fairly and in line with its obligations. I note 
NatWest accept the second block applied in June 2022 should have been removed the 
same day it was applied.
So, to be clear, based on the limited information I have, I find that NatWest did not act fairly 
when applying the restrictions on Mr Os and Mrs Ws joint bank account.
Mr O and Mrs W only complained about their account being closed more recently. Broadly 
speaking, NatWest is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account 
with it. But before NatWest closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which NatWest and Mr O and Mrs W had to 
comply with, say that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. 
And in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
NatWest gave Mr O and Mrs W two months notice to close their accounts. But as with the 
restrictions, it hasnt explained to this service why it did so  and provided supporting 
evidence. So I cant say it acted fairly.
This brings me onto what I think NatWest needs to do to put things right given Im currently 
minded on deciding it hasnt shown its actions were fair, and in line with its obligations. I note 
too that it said it made a significant error in blocking the account the second time. Without 
seeing what sits behind this, it casts some doubt over its decision to restrict the account the 
first time around too.
Ive been given the bank statements for the joint, and respective sole current accounts for 
Mr O and Mrs W. And having carefully looked through them Im satisfied the joint account 
was where Mr Os salary was coming into, and for the period of the first block, Mrs Ws 
various benefit payments. So Im persuaded that this was their main account and the one 
they relied on to service their lifestyles and essential costs.
Mr O and Mrs W have shown they were charged £42 in external penalties for missing 
regular payments and in one case being defaulted. This should be refunded to them. 
Additionally, If Mr O and Mrs W can show NatWest that they incurred other such charges 
during the period from 29 April 2022 up until 31 August 2022 by external companies, 
NatWest should refund them these costs.
Mr O and Mrs W were deprived of access to their funds on two separate occasions. NatWest should pay 8% simple interest on the funds balance on 29 April 2022 till 12 May 2022, and 
then on the balance from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022. NatWest may argue some of 
these funds were earmarked for bills. But I think it would be grossly impractical to calculate 
what that would have been, and in any case, they didnt have access to these funds  and 
thats the point of this award.
Im satisfied that NatWest should also refund all charges it applied in these two periods of 
restriction.
Both Mr O and Mrs W have explained in detail the impact NatWests actions have had on 
them in terms of causing embarrassment, distress and inconvenience. I agree this would 
have been exacerbated by having a young family to support, and Mrs Ws mental health 
condition.
Having given this careful thought, Im minded on awarding £600. Thats because the impact 
of NatWests mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and significant 
inconvenience and disruption that would have needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. The 
impact of which lasted several months collectively  of which some ramifications persist 
today.
Ive considered that Mr O and Mrs W had other bank accounts in their sole names. But Im 
persuaded they were ancillary accounts with little resource to pay for pretty much all their 
key expenses on the joint account. Our Investigator said that by August 2022, Mr O and Mrs 
W should have found alternate ways to make their payments  and as they didnt, this 
should mitigate against any of the consequences.
I also note that Mrs W had savings. Shes explained these funds were earmarked for solicitor 
fees as they were in the process of appropriating a new home. If the funds werent for that 
purpose, given the severity of what was going on, Im sure they would otherwise have been 
utilised. So I dont think the savings were a viable option that shouldve been used to 
mitigate any missed payments.
From the statements Ive seen, Mr O was receiving help from friends and family in July and 
August 2022. Hes also shown he needed to borrow money at a high cost from a loan 
company. So I think any payments they fell behind with, were ones they couldnt meet as 
the limited money they could get their hands on was being utilised for more higher priority 
bills and costs.
It follows that I think NatWest are culpable for any adverse impact to Mr O and Mrs Ws 
credit file during the period of its blocks for regular payments that werent being made from 
the joint account.
So Im persuaded NatWest should send Mr O and Mrs W a letter saying that it was at fault 
for any payments being declined from their joint account during the period of the blocks. 
Mr O and Mrs W will be able to show this to their creditors who may rectify their records 
accordingly. Id expect, given the accounts were unblocked in September 2022 and the 
funds in them released, that all of the creditors Mr O and Mrs W fell behind with have been 
paid and accounts are up to date.
Putting things right 
In summary, to put things right, NatWest must:
-Pay 8% simple interest on the balances while the account was blocked from 
29 April 2022 until 12 May 2022, and from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022*-Pay Mr O and Mrs W £42 for fees and charges theyve incurred from third-party 
creditors for missed and late payments. NatWest should also refund any other such 
charges Mr O and Mrs W can evidence during the period of the blocks by third-party 
creditors
-Refund all NatWest fees and charges when the account was restricted
-Pay Mr O and Mrs W £600 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment it has caused
-Provide Mr O and Mrs W with a letter saying that its error caused them to miss 
creditor payments from 29 April 2022 until 31 August 2022 which may have affected 
their credit files adversely
I then asked both parties to send me any further comments and evidence for me to consider 
before I reach my decision. NatWest sent me new information to consider. And after 
carefully considering this, I sent a second provisional decision to both parties. I said I was no 
planning on part upholding Mr O and Mrs Ws complaint. For ease of reference, here is what 
I said I was planning to decide: 
Second provisional decision  sent November 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im now planning on upholding this complaint in part. I know this is a 
different outcome to that which I was planning on reaching in my previous provisional 
decision. So, Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK, like NatWest, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Since my last provisional decision NatWest have sent me new information which explains 
why it took the actions of reviewing and restricting Mr O and Mrs Ws account. Based on 
what Ive seen, and having carefully considered it, Im now satisfied that NatWest did nothing 
wrong  and was acting in line with its obligations when it restricted the account the first 
time. That is from 29 April 2022 until 12 May 2022.
NatWest continue to accept that it made an error with the second block as the restrictions 
shouldve been lifted the same day they were applied. To be clear that was 30 June 2022. 
So I have no reason to change my decision in relation to what I said about this second block 
in my provisional decision. That is, that NatWest made an error here and the account 
shouldnt have been restricted from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022.
That means any compensation I award for this will now only relate to the period the second 
block was in place.
I know Mr O and Mrs W would like an explanation. But NatWest are under no obligation, that 
Im aware of, to do so. Id also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information NatWest has provided is information that we consider should be kept 
confidential.NatWest is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before NatWest closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which NatWest and Mr O [and Mrs W] had to 
comply with, say that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. 
And in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by NatWest, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done.
Putting things right and fair redress
In my previous decision, Id said based on the limited information I had, that the complaint 
should be upheld in its entirety. And because of that I thought NatWest needed to 
compensate Mr O and Mrs W for:
-The deprivation of funds for the period of both blocks
-Fees theyd shown they had been charged from third-part creditors for missed and 
late payments. And that NatWest should refund them any other such charges that 
Mr O and Mrs W can evidence during the periods of both blocks
-Refund all NatWest fees and charges when the account was restricted
-Pay Mr O and Mr W £600 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment NatWest caused
-And provide Mr O and Mrs W with a letter saying that its error caused them to miss 
creditor payments from 29 April 2022 until 31 August 2022 which may have affected 
their credit files adversely
But given I think the first block and closure was now done in line with NatWests obligations 
and terms of account, I must vary what I think is fair redress. In essence this means that I 
must now consider what I think is fair compensation for the error NatWest says it made in re-
blocking Mr O and Mrs Ws account from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022.
So, having carefully considered this, I now think NatWest needs to do the following to put 
things right:
-Pay Mr O and Mrs W 8%simple interest on the funds withheld in their joint account 
from 30 June 2022 until they were made available*
-Pay Mr O and Mrs W £42 for fees and charges theyve incurred from third-party 
creditors for missed and late payments between 30 June 2022 up until 
30 August 2022. NatWest should also refund any other such charges Mr O and 
Mrs W can evidence during this period of the blocks by third-party creditors
-Pay Mr O and Mr W £350 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment NatWest caused for its error in not removing the second block on 
30 June 2022 and leaving it in place for around two months
-NatWest to provide Mr O and Mrs W with a letter saying its error caused them to 
miss creditor payments from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022 which may have 
affected their credit files adverselyThe deadline for further submissions from both parties has now passed. Mr O and Mrs W 
have not responded. NatWest say it agrees with what I am now planning to decide based on 
my second provisional decision sent in November 2023. 
It follows that I must now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons in my second provisional decision  as above  I have 
decided to uphold this complaint in part. For simplicity, and to avoid any confusion, heres a 
summary of my key findings: 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, NatWest acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when blocking Mr O and Mrs Ws account the first time. That is between 
29 April 2022 until 12 May 2022
NatWest accept it didnt act fairly when restricting Mr O and Mrs Ws account the 
second time  that is from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022. So I accept NatWest 
made an error here. Because of this any compensation award for this complaint will 
only relate to the period the second block was in place
NatWest is under no obligation to give Mr O and Mrs W an explanation for its actions 
NatWest was entitled to close the account in the way it did, and this was in line with 
the terms of the account  
Putting things right
To put things right, NatWest must: 
- Pay Mr O and Mrs W 8%simple interest on the funds withheld in their joint account 
from 30 June 2022 until they were made available*
- Pay Mr O and Mrs W £42 for fees and charges theyve incurred from third-party 
creditors for missed and late payments between 30 June 2022 up until 
30 August 2022. NatWest should also refund any other such charges Mr O and 
Mrs W can evidence during this period of the blocks by third-party creditors
- Pay Mr O and Mr W £350 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment NatWest caused for its error in not removing the second block on 
30 June 2022 and leaving it in place for around two months
- NatWest to provide Mr O and Mrs W with a letter saying its error caused them to 
miss creditor payments from 30 June 2022 until 31 August 2022 which may have 
affected their credit files adversely
*If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr O and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
NatWest has said that if Mr O and Mrs W accept my final decision then it will require the following 
information from them: - The account details the redress is to be paid to. NatWest require the account name, 
sort code and account number. Alternatively a cheque can be sent if Mr O and Mrs W 
can confirm the address this is to be sent to
- Evidence of any further fees from third party creditors
- Confirmation of the address and/or email address Mr O and Mrs W would like the 
bank error letter sent to
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. National Westminster Bank Plc must 
now put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman