DRN-2253443
The complaint
Mr B complains about Swinton Group Ltds handling when assisting his car insurance claim 
and errors made when adding details regarding his vehicle.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B and by 
Swinton and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case. Some of the points raised by Mr B relate to the accident management company that 
were handling his claim. And as Swinton is the broker, and not Mr Bs insurer, I can only look 
the way they assisted his claim.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I think Swinton couldve been clearer in explaining their role in assisting Mr Bs claim 
 and had opportunities to do so. For example, Mr B initially spoke with the accident 
management company around the time of the incident in July 2019. But I can see he 
spoke with Swinton shortly after and I think they couldve explained the accident 
management companys role and made it clear to Mr B a claim wasnt being made 
through his insurer at this time.
In August 2020, in their final response letter, Swinton told Mr B that if theyd not 
managed to get an admission of liability from the other party by the end of the month, 
they would refer the claim directly to the Mr Bs insurer. But I cant see anything to 
show this happened, or that Swinton contacted Mr B to see if he wanted to continue 
his claim through the insurer. Mr B then got the repairs completed independently.
Mr B had concerns about the impact to his no-claims bonus, excess and premium. 
He reported the damage was minor  and said he would rather pay for the repairs 
himself than pay a high excess or lose his no claims bonus. So, I think its unlikely he 
wouldve wanted to make an insurance claim. But I think Swinton couldve done more 
to make his options clear for him to make an informed decision
Details about Mr Bs vehicle were incorrectly inputted on Swintons system.  Swinton 
has confirmed theyve corrected this. Swinton said they wouldnt have had any 
influence over setting the price of Mr Bs policy  and as theyre the broker Im not 
persuaded they reasonably would. But Mr B can present this information to his 
insurer to consider.
From reviewing all the evidence available to me I can see Mr B was caused some 
inconvenience and there were missed opportunities by Swinton to make the situation 
clearer for Mr B. I think the amount of £150 compensation suggested by the 
investigator is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the trouble and upset Mr B was 
caused by Swinton.
Based on the reasons above, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right
Swinton should pay Mr B £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I direct Swinton Group Ltd to pay Mr B £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman