DRN-3515293
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled her request for a subject access 
request (SAR) and failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. 
What happened
Ms W contacted Santander on 30 December 2021. She explained she had previously raised 
a SAR in 2019 but Santander had written to her stating she didnt have any active accounts 
with them. But Ms W said that she did have an account with Santander and provided her old 
address that they had on file for her. Ms W asked for her SAR to be sent to her via email as 
a reasonable adjustment under the Equality Act 2010, as she cant receive post due to her 
disability. Ms Ws told us she finds receiving post extremely distressing.
Santander responded to Ms Ws SAR on 6 January 2022. However, Santander sent this by 
post to her old address. Ms W was unhappy that she didnt receive a response to her SAR or 
complaint and so she referred her complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and discussed with Santander that theyd 
incorrectly sent the SAR against Ms Ws reasonable adjustment request. She also 
highlighted that Ms Ws old address was a known building, widely publicised in the media to 
be unoccupied. Santander reviewed the complaint and agreed they should have recognised 
that the old address would likely no longer be habitable. Santander apologised for the 
oversight and offered to send the SAR via email and pay £100 compensation for any 
distress or inconvenience caused, which our investigator thought was fair. 
Ms W disagreed - she explained that she had received a letter from Santander against her 
requests back in 2019 and the impact of receiving this had led her to try to kill herself. Our 
investigator asked further questions of Santander, but Santander were unable to locate any 
record of sending the letter Ms W was referring to. Santander explained it was likely that 
upon receiving such a request, if they were unable to locate an account with the details 
provided, they would respond to a consumer explaining that no active accounts were found. 
And if Ms W had provided her current address, which Santander doesnt have on file, they 
likely wouldnt have been able to locate any of her accounts. 
 
Our investigator said she didnt doubt what Ms W was saying but agreed with Santander that 
with such limited information, they wouldnt have known the reasons why not to send a letter 
to her current address. And although theyd incorrectly sent the SAR to her old address, 
there was little impact as Ms W wouldnt have received this letter. 
Overall, our investigator still considered the £100 compensation and offer to send the SAR 
via email to be fair. She also directed Santander to engage with Ms W about her disability to 
explore how they could help support her moving forward. 
Ms W didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about this complaint, Im required to take into account  amongst other things 
 relevant law and regulations. So, Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when 
deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Ms W wants a decision on whether 
Santander have breached the Equality Act 2010, then shed need to go to Court.
The Equality Act 2010 requires businesses to make reasonable adjustments for people with 
disabilities. Santander have recognised that they incorrectly sent a SAR response by post to 
Ms Ws old address, despite her request for this to be sent via email. I agree with our 
investigator that Santander should have questioned this address further considering the 
circumstances of that specific address. But I also agree that Santanders error wouldnt have 
caused her to be distressed about receiving post, because she didnt receive it.
There has been a delay in Ms W receiving the SAR, because it was sent out by post in error 
to an address Ms W didnt have access to. But Im also taking into account Santander 
offered to send it by email immediately when our investigator pointed out that Ms W wouldnt 
have been able to receive it at the address they posted it to.  
I think the key issue here for Ms W is around the original letter that Ms W says she received 
in 2019, where Santander wrote to her to explain she had no accounts with them or that it 
had been more than six years since shed had an account with them. 
Im very sorry to hear the effect of receiving this letter had on Ms W. I appreciate that 
receiving post is extremely distressing for her and Im truly sorry to hear how much this 
affected her. 
Santander have searched their systems but can find no record of a SAR or letter being sent 
to Ms Ws current address.
 
Where theres conflicting information about what has happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened. 
Santander have confirmed that they did not hold Ms Ws current address. Therefore, I think 
what most likely happened is that Santander were unable to locate Ms Ws account on their 
systems based on the information provided. So, when they received a SAR in 2019 with Ms 
Ws current address, they acted reasonably in responding to her letting her know that they 
could find no active accounts.
 
Considering everything I find it likely that Ms W did ask for this response to be sent to her via 
email. However, Ive not seen enough evidence that she explained why she needed the 
response to be sent via email. And as Santander were unable to locate her accounts with 
the information provided, they wouldnt have been able to see any records of her 
adjustments or vulnerabilities, if theyd been recorded on her file. So I can understand why, 
with the limited information they had, they sent the response via post. 
When considering complaints of this nature our role isnt to fine or punish a business when 
they make mistakes. We consider what is fair and reasonable. And, having considered 
everything, Im persuaded, on balance, that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
 I know how strongly Ms W feels about this complaint and I know this wasnt the outcome she 
was hoping for. However, in the circumstances I believe Santanders offer to put things right 
is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc have offered enough to put this matter right. If 
Santander UK Plc havent done so already they should pay Ms W £100 and send her SAR 
via email. They should also discuss with Ms W any reasonable adjustments she needs 
moving forward. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman