DRN-4376856
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a mortgage he holds with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
The mortgage, which started in 2000, is made up of four sub-accounts, one of which is 
interest-only (something Mr B disputes).
 
This is one of two complaints Mr B currently has with us. One is about legal action RBS is 
taking to evict Mr B from his mortgaged property; RBS action is presently on hold whilst we 
look into that complaint. The other complaint, the one Im dealing with here, originally 
comprised two broad elements; these are, in summary: 
the interest-only part of the mortgage was mis-sold to Mr B at the outset; and
he received an annual statement in 2022 saying all four sub accounts are capital 
repayment, which he believes proves he never took out the interest-only part.

What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr B and RBS; theyve been set out 
in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the investigator issued a 
detailed response to the complaint which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont 
need to repeat all of the details here. 
Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the key points, in my own words and then focus on 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr B has held the mortgage since 2000. When it started, there were two components to the 
mortgage; one was capital repayment, the other was interest-only. Two further advances 
were taken out subsequently, both on a capital repayment basis. In 2015, RBS responded to 
a complaint Mr B had made about the endowment policy that had originally been envisaged 
as the repayment vehicle for the interest-only part of the mortgage, but which had in fact 
been surrendered by Mr B in 2007.
RBS has sent Mr B annual statements for the mortgage. These routinely set out the four 
components of the mortgage, identifying three of them as capital repayment and one as 
interest-only. However, in 2022, RBS issued an annual statement that labelled all four parts 
of the mortgage as capital repayment. This prompted Mr B to raise the current complaint, 
arguing that that this statement was proof he had been right all along that all parts of the 
mortgage should have been capital repayment. 
RBS responded to the complaint in September 2022; it referred Mr B back to complaints 
hed made in the past about how the mortgage was made up, some of which had been 
referred here. As far as the 2022 annual statement was concerned, it said this was a typing 
error, apologised and sent Mr B a gift voucher.
Mr B didnt accept RBSs response and raised his complaint with our service.
Our investigator was of the view that the alleged mis-selling aspect of the complaint was 
time-barred under our rules. On the part of the complaint that we were able to consider, the 
investigator was of the view that the apology and gift voucher was a reasonable remedy of 
the mistake over the 2022 statement.
Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. By way of a jurisdiction 
decision dated 26 September 2023, I confirmed that our remit was confined to dealing with 
the complaint about the 2022 statement. I now deal with that on its merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All of the available evidence points to the labelling of all four components of Mr Bs mortgage 
in the 2022 statement as capital repayment as being a mistake. This was one single 
document in contrast to the many and various items Mr B has received over the years which 
consistently, and in my view correctly, informed him that part of the mortgage was always 
interest-only. 
The mistake shouldnt have happened, clearly, and its regrettable that it did. But once the 
mistake was drawn to RBS attention, it did what Id reasonable expect it to, which was to 
admit the error and apologise for it. In addition, RBS also sent Mr B a gift voucher. If RBS 
had not responded in the way it did, I would not be ordering it to do more.
Ill make one final observation, albeit only for completeness. RBS has said the mortgage 
term expired in 2018, and thats when the interest-only balance was due to have been 
repaid. That might be the backdrop to the recovery action RBS is taking that is the subject of 
the separate complaint were also looking into. But I make the point for context only; its not 
something Im addressing here. That said, it rather reinforces the conclusion that the 2022 
statement was a simple administrative error, given that the capital balance outstanding on 
the mortgage had already, in fact, been repayable for several years. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman