DRN-1651284
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Axa France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr W says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr W took out on a store card account in January 1998. 
It was added to his account when he applied for the card in store.
Mr W says he didn't agree to have it and on the application form the cross in the box, 
agreeing to it, was pre populated. He also says the application form doesn't have information 
about PPI on it, so he doesn't know how he could have made an informed decision to have it 
at the time. He thinks it was mis-sold to him. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W has said he wasn't given a choice to have PPI. But I think AXA made Mr W aware that 
he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. I say this because 
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. This shows 
there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. 
I acknowledge Mr W's comments about a pre populated cross in the box relating to PPI. But 
I can see PPI was presented as optional on the form and he signed the application agreeing 
to have it. 
So, on balance, I think Mr W was aware the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out 
by signing the application form.
This application was made by Mr W completing an application in a store. So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for him. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mr W enough information so he 
could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for him.Mr W says he wasn't given enough information about the policy. Its possible the information 
AXA gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. So I need to consider 
if Mr W would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if better information had been 
provided. And on balance I dont think better information wouldve led him to act differently.
Mr W has told us he had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any provisions Mr W would receive. I think taking into consideration 
what Mr W has said about his circumstances, the PPI would have been useful to him in that 
his store card payments would be met. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting terms 
that would have affected Mr Ws decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mr Ws decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mr Ws comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman