DRN-3728629
The complaint
Mr P complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund him for transactions he said 
he didnt make.
What happened
Mr P said that on 5 July 2022, between 11 pm and 11.30 pm, he checked his internet 
banking. He saw that £1,000 had been transferred from his savings account to his current 
account. There had then been faster payments out of his current account, using mobile 
banking, for £1,000 and £800. There was also a pending payment to a retailer for £2,347. 
Mr P rang HSBC and said he hadnt authorised these transactions. He said he hadnt had 
any suspect calls, texts or emails, and he hadnt shared any personal information about his 
account or internet banking logins. Mr P said he still had his phone.  
HSBC suspended online banking on Mr Ps account and investigated. Mr P also went to a 
branch the next day, 6 July. He went again on 12 July because he hadnt heard back. The 
branch confirmed that the £2,347 pending transaction hadnt gone through, but the other two 
payments totalling £1,800 had debited Mr Ps account. The branch rang HSBCs fraud team 
for him. The line was very poor and Mr P was on the phone there for 45 minutes before he 
had to go back to his car to get another car parking ticket. The branch told Mr P it would 
credit his account with £25 for the inconvenience caused by the poor quality line and the wait 
while trying to speak to the fraud team.
When HSBCs fraud team investigated, it didnt agree that the transactions had been carried 
out by a third party fraudster, and it refused to refund him. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He told the investigator that he hadnt 
written down his online banking details; didnt download any software to his phone; hadnt 
received any suspicious messages or calls; and his phone was locked using a pattern. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said that the disputed activity was 
carried out after logins to Mr Ps mobile banking which had been verified using biometrics. 
And the device ID, and login method, were the same for genuine and for disputed 
transactions.  Whoever made the payments had logged into Mr Ps mobile banking using his 
phone, and had entered his six digit Digital Secure Key password, in order to authenticate 
the payments. The investigator said hed seen no plausible explanation for how any third 
party had Mr Ps phone and knew these details in order to make the payments.
Mr P didnt accept this. He said that when hed first complained to HSBC, it had said his 
phone had been hacked. Mr P said that if that had happened, the fraudster could have done 
all the things the investigator had referred to. Mr P also said hed never had a fraud alert text 
from HSBC asking him to authorise these large payments. He said that since he started 
using online banking, hed been using his PIN to log in, not biometrics, so he didnt know 
where HSBC had got it from.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations governing disputed transactions. For transactions in July 2022, these 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider 
(here, HSBC) must show the transactions were authenticated. Thats the technical part, and 
here, Ive seen the evidence that the disputed payments were authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive gone on to consider whether its 
more likely than not that the payments were authorised by Mr P or by an unauthorised third 
party.
The disputed transactions were carried out on Mr Ps mobile banking. So Ive looked at the 
computer evidence, which is key here. This shows records for logins using the phone device 
registered to Mr Ps account. And this shows that although there were some logins using a 
PIN, there were multiple logins using biometrics. Mr P didnt report that his phone had been 
lost or stolen. And even if he had, a fraudster wouldnt have been able to login using Mr Ps 
biometric data  in other words something like his face or fingerprint. Nor could biometric 
data have been set up by a third party fraudster if theyd obtained Mr Ps phone. Thats 
because biometric data can only be used in this way if its already been set up on the 
registered phone by the account holder. And setting up biometric data requires multiple 
levels of security before it can be activated.
After Mr Ps account had been logged into, the new payee was set up in order to make the 
payments, and this procedure required the correct six digit password.
Mr P has argued that he should have received a text from HSBC before the payments went 
through. But texts arent compulsory under the Payment Services Regulations. What 
matters, as Ive set out above, is the authentication, and the authorisation. Mr Ps phone 
hadnt been lost or stolen. And even if it had, the login was done through Mr Ps biometric 
data, and the person carrying out the transactions also knew Mr Ps six digit PIN.
Mr P has also asked about the £2,347 pending transaction to a retailer, which never went 
through. But that never debited his account, so there was no financial loss to Mr P. And Im 
not persuaded that anything about that transaction would change the outcome about the two 
disputed transactions for £1,000 and £800.
Taking all the factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr P authorised 
the two disputed transactions himself. So I dont require HSBC to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman