DRN-3025779
The complaint
Ms F complains about the quality of a vehicle that was supplied by BMW Financial
Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) under a hire purchase agreement.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
In December 2015 Ms F entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS to supply 
her with a new car. The term was 48 months with an optional final repayment at the end of 
the term if Ms F wanted to keep the car. Ms F also made an advance payment of £8,000.
Ms F has explained she experienced a number of issues with the vehicle which were 
repaired by the dealer. In April 2018 Ms F took the car to the dealer after finding evidence 
of a leak. Repairs were carried out by the dealer at the time.
At the beginning of December 2019 Ms F refinanced her hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. But, towards the end of the month, Ms F found the water ingress 
problem had occurred again and she went back to the dealer.
Emails from Ms F show the dealer inspected the water ingress issues reported and agreed 
there was a problem. The dealer advised it would repair the issue at its expense. But, by 
this point, Ms F says she no longer had faith that the vehicle supplied was of a reasonable 
quality so she contacted BMWFS and complained. Ms F said she wanted to reject the car.
BMWFS responded and said its obligation was to ensure the car was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied and that the issues with water ingress occurred outside the first six 
months of her hire purchase agreement. BMWFS said it didnt think the water ingress 
issue was present or developing at the point of supply and didnt agree that Ms F could 
reject the car.
Ms F referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld the complaint and said Ms F had a reasonable expectation car wouldnt
develop a leak of this nature within the period in question.
The investigator recommended BMWFS settle as follows:
-Car to be collected at no cost to Ms F and current hire purchase agreement ended
-Refund deposit (advance payment) Ms F made under the original hire 
purchase agreement and add 8% interest
-Refund 5% of all monthly premiums from April 2018 to reflect the loss of use 
whilst the vehicle was undergoing repairs
-Refund all monthly payments Ms F has made under the new hire 
purchase agreement for the time she was without a car whilst subject to 
repairs (to be confirmed with dealer)
-Pay Ms F £200 in respect of time taken and inconvenience caused by having to 
take the car to the dealer for repairs
BMWFS didnt agree to the investigators recommendations and asked to appeal. 
BMWFS said there was no evidence the fault had developed within the first six months of 
the hire purchase term and that it was under no obligation to accept a rejection of the car 
from Ms F. As BMWFS asked to appeal, Ms Fs complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement which is a 
regulated activity. Im satisfied our rules allow me to consider Ms Fs complaint about 
BMWFS.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies in this case and says goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. Information like the description of the 
goods, price, condition on supply and durability, as well as other relevant factors, can be 
taken into account when considering whether a vehicle was of satisfactory quality.
In this case, BMWFS supplied Ms F with a brand new premium car. Im satisfied that a 
reasonable person would expect the quality of a brand new car to be higher than a used 
car. I think Ms F could reasonably have expected to use her car without significant defects 
manifesting for a considerable period of time. Ive applied this approach to the problems
Ms F has complained about.
BMWFS response to the investigators findings said that any issues diagnosed outside the 
first six months from supply are not considered to have been present or developing at the 
point of sale. In this case, Ms F first reported the water ingress issue in April 2018, over 
two years after the car was supplied. And it occurred again in December 2019, around four 
years from supply. I disagree with this view as the CRA says the quality of goods should 
take into account the durability of the item supplied. So, Ive considered whether the 
problems Ms F has experienced are in line with what a reasonable person would consider 
to be satisfactory when taking the durability of her car into account.
I think most people would expect a brand new car to be free from defects for a 
reasonable period. In this case, Ms F reported a leak with her car less than two and a half 
years after it was supplied. The correspondence from the dealer and job sheets supplied 
show there was a leak that required repair. The information also shows the leak affected 
other parts of the car, including audio equipment, that had to be replaced. I can see the 
dealer replaced the items and carried out the repair at no cost to Ms F.
Ms F reported another leak with her car at the end of December 2019. Shes provided 
photos of the water ingress and, again, Ive seen detailed correspondence from the 
dealer that the leak had reoccurred so more repairs were required. Associated damage to 
trim and leather was also noted. So, Im satisfied the evidence shows the water ingress 
issue recurred in December 2019.
The job cards provided show the dealer carried out various repairs on the weather trim 
since Ms F has had the car. I can see that in 2018 the dealer replaced trim and carried out 
significant repairs to the interior following a water ingress issue. Further issues with water ingress came up in 2019. Looking at the correspondence between Ms F and the dealer, I 
can see the water ingress issue has continued to affect the car and that the dealer has 
ultimately refused to help further.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car that was only four years old to have 
experienced two significant water ingress faults. I understand the vehicle in question is a 
hardtop convertible, but I still think most reasonable people would expect a vehicle of this 
nature not to leak or required regular repairs due to water ingress at this point in its 
lifespan.
I agree with the investigators view that the durability issues raised show Ms Fs car isnt 
of satisfactory quality. I agree Ms F should be able to reject it.
In response to the investigator, BMWFS queried why Ms F had refinanced in December 
2019 despite the ongoing issues. But Ms F refinanced at the start of December 2019, 
when the original agreement came to an end, and the water ingress issues manifested 
towards the end of the month. The leak issue wasnt apparent when Ms F refinanced.
Ive considered how to fairly resolve Ms Fs complaint. I agree with the investigator that 
the nature of the water ingress issues is such that it would be fair to allow Ms F to return 
the car to BMWFS at no cost and that her hire purchase agreement should be ended. I 
can see Ms F made an advance payment, or deposit, of £8,000 when the vehicle was 
supplied in December 2015 and I also agree that should be returned to Ms F with interest.
Our investigator also recommended that BMWFS refunds 5% of the payments Ms F has 
made under the hire purchase agreement since April 2018 to reflect the loss of use whilst 
it was experiencing water ingress issues. I dont agree thats fair. Whilst Im satisfied there 
was a leak, it was repaired within a few weeks of Ms F reporting it in April 2018. So from 
that point, whilst there were other problems, the water ingress issues dont appear to have 
impacted Ms Fs ability to use the vehicle. Ms F reported the same fault in December 
2019, but it appears the leak was repaired within a reasonably short period. So, again, I 
didnt find the fault itself impacted Ms Fs ability to use the car in the long term.
I also think its reasonable to note Ms F left the car with the dealer for an extended 
period because she was away working. Whilst the car was retained by the dealer 
awaiting Ms Fs return, I dont agree it would be fair for BMWFS to refund all payments 
after the repair was completed. So Im not telling BMWFS to refund the payments Ms F 
made under the hire purchase agreement.
I can see Ms F was without the car for a limited period and that she was inconvenienced 
by having to arrange repairs. Its clear the situation was stressful and the fact the fault 
recurred was particularly distressing. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to 
tell BMWFS to pay Ms F £400 to reflect the time her vehicle was being repaired and not 
available to use along with the trouble and upset caused by the issues raised. In my view, 
that figure more fairly reflects the impact of the problems Ms F experienced on her. 
Based on the information Ive seen so far, and in line with the points Ive made above, I 
intend to tell BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to settle as follows:
-Car to be collected from Ms F at no cost
-Current hire purchase agreement to be ended
-Refund of advance payment Ms F made at the outset of the original hire purchase 
agreement plus 8% simple interest from the date she paid to the date of 
settlement.-Pay Ms F £400 to reflect the trouble and upset caused as set out above
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points or information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision. We didnt hear back from BMWFS. 
Ms F responded to say she discovered the leak when the electrical and safety mechanisms 
failed and she was told by the manufacturer not to use her car. 
Ms F has also told us she tried to return the car in 2018 and that she had to fight for the 
dealer to help with repairs. Ms F has told us she doesnt agree that her car was repaired in a 
timely manner and that the dealership had possession of it for several weeks. Ms F has 
further said the car was damaged by the dealer and had to be repaired. 
Ms F says the car cant be used when its wet and the issues shes complained about have 
severely limited her ability to use it. 
In terms of the proposed settlement, Ms F has suggested a refund of the deposit along with 
all interest shes paid since the original water ingress issue was detected. Ms F wants to 
keep the vehicle until the finance agreement is paid in full. In addition, Ms F says the £400 
award for the trouble and upset caused doesnt go far enough. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms F for the level of detail given in her submissions and response. I want 
assure Ms F that I have read and considered everything she submitted both before and after 
I issued my provisional decision. The background section of my provisional decision sets out 
the key events as detailed by both parties. Ive taken on board everything Ms F has told us 
about the order of events. 
Im not going to respond to each and every point made by both sides and will focus on what I 
feel are the key issues in this case. If I dont respond to a specific point, it isnt because I 
havent considered it. I have. No discourtesy is intended by this approach, it reflects the 
informal nature of this service and our rules.
Ms F says the water ingress issues severely impacted her ability to use the car. However, I 
note that between April 2018, when the water ingress issues were investigated, and 
December 2019, when Ms F took the car back to the dealer, it covered around 13,500 miles. 
I also note the original hire purchase agreement gave an allowance of 32,000 miles within 
four years. Further miles wouldve incurred additional costs to Ms F. Ms F refinanced in 
November 2019 and in December 2019, when it was taken to the dealer for further repairs, 
the car had just over 32,000 miles. 
Whilst I agree Ms Fs ability to use the car was impacted, it does appear she was able to 
cover close to the maximum miles allowed within the hire purchase agreement before 
additional charges applied. The information Ive seen shows indicates Ms F has been able to 
use the car. 
Ms F has told us about difficulties she experienced with the dealer, including not being 
contacted to pick the car up and finding the wrap damaged when it was collected. I dont 
doubt how frustrating this was for Ms F. But the wrap was repaired with the costs being met 
as part of an agreement with the dealer.  Ms F also says she was without the vehicle for extended periods whilst it was with the 
garage. I can see the car did spend a lot of time with the dealer, but that was caused in part 
because Ms F was abroad for extended periods. Ms F has also told us the pandemic added 
additional delays. I appreciate thats the case, but I dont agree it would be fair to say 
BMWFS were responsible for delays Ms F experienced caused by the pandemic. 
Ive considered Ms Fs request to retain the vehicle. If Ms F doesnt accept this decision, she 
is free to decide not to return the car to BMWFS and continue making payments in line the 
hire purchase agreement. Im sorry to disappoint Ms F, but I havent been persuaded to tell 
BMWFS to refund the deposit and all the interest paid since the water ingress issue first 
came about.
Ms F has explained she doesnt agree that £400 is fair for the trouble and upset caused. Ive 
taken all Ms Fs comments on board. And, as Ive said above Im looking at BMWFS actions 
in this case. I still think £400 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms F by 
the way BMWFS has handled her case. Im not telling BMWFS to increase the award. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms F, but I remain of the view that settlement noted in my 
provisional decision remains the fairest way to resolve her complaint. I leave it to Ms F to 
decide how she wishes to proceed.   
  
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint BMWFS should do the following: 
- Car to be collected from Ms F at no cost
- Current hire purchase agreement to be ended
- Refund of advance payment Ms F made at the outset of the original hire purchase 
agreement plus 8% simple interest from the date she paid to the date of 
settlement.
-Pay Ms F £400 to reflect the trouble and upset caused as set out above
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to 
settle in line with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman