DRN-2306556
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat them fairly 
when they appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers to their property on which they 
had a buy to let mortgage.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H had a buy to let mortgage which fell into arrears. Halifax appointed an LPA 
Receiver in early 2019. Mr and Mrs H objected to the appointment and brought a complaint 
to this service. The complaint wasnt upheld. Following the LPA receivers appointment Mr H 
and Mrs H sold the property privately and the mortgage was redeemed in early 2020. Mr H 
and Mrs H make a number of further complaints about the LPA Receivers fees not being 
included in the redemption figure; lack of contact from Halifax and being pressurised by 
Halifax to sell the property. Mr and Mrs H also complained about the LPA Receivers not 
collecting the full rent from the tenants. 
Halifax accepted that the total costs of the LPA Receivers werent included in the redemption 
figure and agreed to pay Mr H and Mrs H compensation of £150. It disagreed that it put any 
pressure on Mr H and Mrs H to sell the property. It agreed that it sent Mr H and Mrs H a 
redemption figure, but this was sent in error and contrary to its policy. In line with Mr H and 
Mrs Hs request for a breakdown of the LPA Receivers fee it provided a copy of that. It also 
said that these fees were passed on to Mr H and Mrs H when invoiced by the Receiver.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that we had 
no jurisdiction in respect of the actions of the LPA Receivers and that Halifax was entitled to 
debit the mortgage account with their costs. She felt that there was no evidence that 
Halifaxs LPA team had failed to return their calls and no evidence that Halifax pressurised 
Mr H and Mrs H to sell the property. Mr H and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LPA Receivers were appointed to Mr H and Mrs Hs property in early 2019. Under the power 
contained in the mortgage deed appointing them Receivers, they act as agents of Mr H and 
Mrs H and not of Halifax, so the lender isnt responsible for their actions as LPA Receivers. 
As Receivers they raise invoices and Halifax debit these to the mortgage account which 
under the terms of the mortgage agreement it is entitled to do. It seems that without 
consulting the Receivers or Halifax that Mr H and Mrs H agreed the sale of their property 
and requested a redemption statement. At that stage the redemption statement wasnt up to 
date with the final costs of the Receivers. Halifax says that the redemption statement 
shouldnt have been produced and paid Mr H and Mrs H £150. This seems to be appropriate 
compensation given the circumstances in which the incorrect information was produced. 
I appreciate that Mr H and Mrs H have concerns about the Receivers fees and their failure 
to collect the rent from the tenants. The Receivers are entitled to charge fees, and the 
mortgage agreement allows these charges to be added to the account. If Mr and Mrs H have 
concerns about the fees or the administration of the receivership that is a matter for them to 
raise with the receivers. I understand that the receivers were unable to collect the full rent 
from the tenants, Again, any complaint about that appears to be a matter for the receivers. I 
also note that Halifax responded to this complaint but as our investigator pointed out, Mr and 
Mrs H didnt bring the complaint to us within the time allowed by our rules and we are unable 
to consider a complaint against Halifax arising from that.
Mr H and Mrs H also have concerns about Halifaxs failure to communicate with them during 
the receivership but from looking at the contact notes there seems to have been reasonable 
communication with Mr H and Mrs H including advising them of relevant information 
communicated to Halifax by the receivers such as the expenses being incurred. Mr H and 
Mrs H say that they didnt receive call backs from Halifax when requested. Our investigator 
noted in her view that Mr and Mrs H were unable to provide her with the exact dates of 
theses calls so she could investigate further. Unfortunately, Mr H couldnt remember those 
dates which makes it difficult to investigate that aspect of the complaint. But looking at the 
level of contact that appears in the contact notes, Im not persuaded that Halifax failed in 
providing Mr and Mrs H responses to any questions they raised although during the 
receivership it wasnt responsible for administering the mortgaged property. I also see that in 
November 2019 when Mr H and Mrs H indicated that they wanted the property back that 
they were directed to contact the receivers about the arrears. 
Mr H and Mrs H also say that Halifax were pressurising them to sell the property. The 
problem for Mr H and Mrs H was that that they had few options rather than sell the property. 
The mortgage was in arrears, the tenants werent paying the full rent and according to the 
income/expenditure figures the mortgage was unsustainable. The matter was in the hands of 
the receivers and whilst the sale of the property may have been a reasonable option for Mr H 
and Mrs H, I didnt detect pressure from Halifax on Mr and Mrs H to do so. So, although Ive 
examined carefully Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint, I cant fairly uphold it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman