DRN-3182810
The complaint
Mr P complains that Arval UK Limited unfairly applied damage charges and excess mileage 
charges at the end of his agreement. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt notified before 
attempts were made to take monies from his bank account by direct debit.
What happened
Mr P is unhappy about end of contract charges when his agreement with Arval ended. Hes 
also unhappy that his car wasnt collected when it shouldve been, and that he wasnt 
advised that Arval was changing to paperless invoicing.
Mr P disputed the end of contract charges and complained to Arval. In response, Arval said 
the charges had been correctly applied. It said the car couldnt be collected on the collection 
date because it was displaying a warning light, which meant that the collection had not be 
rearranged. It said that the charges for 17 days additional rental incurred as a result of the 
aborted collection had been correctly charged. It said that when it switched to paperless 
invoicing, it had emailed all customers to advise of this and had given customers the choice 
to continue with paper invoicing if required.
Mr P wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He said it 
wasnt fair to use the fair wear and tear guidelines to assess damage without having regard 
to the fact that a lease agreement with a higher mileage allowance meant that a car was 
likely to have a greater degree of wear and tear.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said Arval should have written to its 
customers (rather than sending an email) to advise them of the change to paperless 
invoicing and to make sure it had up to date contact information. The investigator 
recommended that Arval paid compensation of £50 or the inconvenience caused to Mr P in 
relation to the paperless invoicing.
In relation to the damage charges, the investigator thought all of these had been applied 
correctly and explained why with reference to the guidelines. She said the BVLRA guidance 
was an industry wide practice and that it was outside the remit of this service to challenge it. 
In relation to the collection of the car, the investigator said the additional rental charges had 
been correctly applied. The investigator also looked at the charges for excess mileage and 
said these had been correctly charged.
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed been prejudiced by Arvals decision to inform customers 
about paperless invoicing by email, because he was unable to access his email account. He 
didnt think he should have to accept any responsibility for advising Arval of his new email 
address, because he said it had always corresponded with him by letter. In relation to the 
damage charges, Mr P said he thought the BVLRA guidelines were unfair, because they 
didnt account for the increased wear and tear on a car which covered greater annual 
mileage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage charges
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr P must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the images. The report identifies damage to 
several areas of the car, including the bumper, the doors, the alloy wheels and the tow 
cover. Ive reviewed all the damage and Im of the view that it exceeds fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines, so Im satisfied that the charges have been 
correctly applied.
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about the BVLRA guidelines. I appreciate that he 
feels that the guidelines are unfair. Im only able to say whether the guidelines have been 
correctly applied, not whether they are fair. The issue of fairness is something which Mr P 
would need to take up with BVLRA directly. 
Car collection
Mr P is unhappy that his car wasnt collected as arranged. Arval has said that the car was 
displaying a warning light on the day of collection.  Ive looked at the BVLRA guidelines. 
These say that that the collection will be abandoned if warning lights are displayed. 
Therefore, Im unable to say that Arval acted unfairly or unreasonably by aborting the 
collection and charging the extra 17 days rental.
I appreciate that Mr P was aware of the warning light and had made efforts to have it 
rectified. He says the light wasnt indicative of a serious fault. I havent seen evidence of 
what the fault was but it makes no difference because the guidelines say that if a warning 
light is illuminated, the collection cant take place.
Excess mileage charges
Ive looked at the agreement and I can see that Mr P had a mileage allowance of 60,000 
over the term. When the car was returned, it had covered 75,575 miles. Mr P has said that 
the mileage on the car before he took possession of it hasnt been factored in. I can see that 
Mr P has been charged for an additional 1855 miles over his contractual allowance, so Im 
satisfied that any pre acquisition mileage has been factored in. Because of this, I wont be 
asking Arval to refund the excess mileage charges.
Paperless invoicing
Mr P has said that he wasnt aware that Arval had moved to paperless invoicing. As such, he 
wasnt aware that Arval would try to take the end of contract charges from his bank account 
by direct debit.
Arval has said that it emailed all customers advising them about paperless invoicing. Mr P 
says he didnt receive the email because he no longer had access to that email account.Ive taken into account what both parties have said. On balance, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Arval to notify customers of its change to paperless invoicing by email. It 
could have done more by writing to customers to advise them of the changes and to check 
that email contact details were correct and up to date. 
I understand that Mr P was caused a degree of worry when Arval tried to take the end of 
contract charges from his bank account without his knowledge. This could have been 
avoided if Arval had written to notify customers of the change to paperless.
Putting things right
To put things right, Arval should pay compensation to Mr P for the distress caused by its 
failure to notify Mr P in writing about the change to paperless invoicing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. Arval UK Limited must pay 
compensation of £50 to Mr P for trouble and upset in relation to the aspect of his complaint 
relating to paperless invoicing. In relation to the rest of the complaint, I dont uphold it 
because I think the charges have been applied fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman