DRN-2289604
The complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
What happened
Miss C bought the policy with a hire purchase agreement when buying goods in store in 
August 1999. She paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss C mainly says that PPI wasnt fully explained and she had felt forced to take it out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Based on information we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think its 
likely there had been a discussion about the PPI. 
I dont know what was said about PPI. 
But what Miss C says about the way she was sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold her complaint. This was a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect her to recall exactly what was discussed. 
So I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think most likely. 
I've seen the form Miss C completed when she took out this agreement and the PPI. I think 
Miss C wouldve understood that she was signing up to a legally binding financial 
commitment. 
And in those circumstances I think its reasonable to expect that Miss C wouldve looked 
over the form before signing it. 
The PPI was set out under a separate heading and Miss C has signed where it said:
I require payment protection insurance and confirm that I meet the eligibility requirements 
as explained in the key features information.
And I think she wouldve seen that the wording on the form made it clear that she was being 
asked to say if she wanted PPI. I say this because next to where she has signed it says: 
ONLY SIGN IF YOU WANT COVER.
On balance, I think it likely that AXA made it clear that PPI was optional and it was added to 
the account when Miss C indicated that she wanted to have it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her enough clear information so she could decide if she wanted to take it. 
Miss C was eligible for the policy. And based on what I know about Miss Cs circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. 
Ive taken into account what she told us about her entitlement to sick pay through work. 
But it looks like the policy couldve covered her monthly repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per claim  so this gave her better cover 
than she it looks like she couldve relied on getting through her employer. 
And repeat claims were possible giving Miss C long term protection for this account.  
I dont know if Miss C wouldve always had savings to fall back on if she wasnt able to work. 
So I think Miss C couldve found the policy useful had she found herself unexpectedly out of 
work.
Its possible some information AXA gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look likely that Miss C wouldve been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. 
So I dont think having more information about policy limitations wouldve put her off taking 
out the PPI. 
I dont know how AXA explained the costs of the PPI to Miss C but the monthly cost was 
shown on the agreement she signed. I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy was 
unaffordable for Miss C when she took it out. And she chose to take out the policy when she 
didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted it at the time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss C, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed 
still have taken out the policy. 
So, overall, I dont think that Miss C has lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong. This 
means theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman