DRN-3230442
The complaint
 Mr S complains about Metro Bank PLCs decision to close his account and withhold the 
funds left in it.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Metro. Between December 2019  January 2020, Mr S received a 
number of payments into his account. Mr S said these payments were sent from his ex-
partner, but the money actually belonged to him. Mr S thinks his ex-partner raised a fraud 
dispute which resulted in Metro blocking his account. 
Metro decided to end their banking relationship with Mr S. They wrote to him in February 
2020 to let him know he had seven days to withdraw the funds. At the time, Mr S was 
working overseas so couldnt access the money within the seven days. Mr S returned to the 
UK in March 2020 and Metro released around £3,000 to him. However nearly £12,000 
remained held in the account.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. He wanted the money back from his account, his 
account to be reinstated and compensation for the distress he says the situation caused him. 
Mr S said he was forced to leave his University studies due to not having access to money 
which resulted in him losing money to student fees and student accommodation. Mr S also 
said he had to see a psychiatrist due to the effect the situation had on him. 
In September 2020, Metro advised our service that they were willing to release the 
remaining money from Mr Ss account to him. Mr S confirmed he received the money in 
October 2021.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. Despite asking Metro for the relevant information 
to confirm why theyd held the money for so long and couldnt release it to Mr S in 
March 2020, he hadnt received anything. So, he asked Metro to pay Mr S 8% interest on the 
amount they withheld from Mr S from March 2020 up to the date Mr S got it back in 
October 2021. Our investigator also asked Metro to pay Mr S £300 in compensation.
Metro disagreed. They said they only became aware in September 2020 they could release 
the money to Mr S  so they were willing to pay the interest from September 2020 to 
October 2021. And they said theyd told our service about the refund being available in 
September 2020, so they didnt agree Mr S was entitled to any compensation. Metro didnt 
provide any further evidence.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring 
of relationships they hold with their customers. 
Metro has shared some information with our service as to why the review was initiated. And 
Mr S also informed us that his ex-partner raised a claim with her bank about payments made 
from her account to Mr Ss. Mr S told us she claimed the money was transferred without her 
consent. 
Metro decided to end their relationship with Mr S in February 2020. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship, and this can be for a number of reasons. I appreciate Metro 
hasnt told Mr S why they made this decision  but theyre not obliged to give a reason. 
Metro can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and conditions 
of the account. Metro helpfully referred Mr S to the specific term (11.2) theyd relied on when 
closing the account. Having reviewed everything, I dont think Metro made an unfair decision 
 and Im satisfied they complied with the terms of the account  so I wont be asking them 
to do anything differently.
When banks carry out reviews, its common practice across the banking industry that the 
review will require additional information from the account holder. Often, the information 
required is related to the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to recent payments or 
more details on what the account is used for. I havent seen any evidence to show that Metro 
asked Mr S about the payments hed received into his account. I think this would have been 
useful, as they received notification that Mr S had been the beneficiary of fraudulent funds. 
Ive thought about whether I think Metro not asking Mr S about these payments would have 
made an overall difference  I think it could have. I say that because Mr S has supplied 
evidence to show the money which was credited into his account originally came from his 
own funds. He says he transferred them to his ex-partner to help her with money, and she 
repaid him when he needed the money back. Had Metro asked Mr S for this evidence, they 
may have been able to release all of the money to Mr S in March 2020 alongside the amount 
they did release to him.
Metro also havent given us any information or evidence to satisfy our service as to why they 
held on to around £12,000 in March 2020, despite releasing around £3,000 to Mr S. Without 
this evidence or an explanation, its difficult for me to say Metro acted fairly. I appreciate they 
feel theyre only accountable from September 2020 when they say they became aware they 
could release the money to Mr S. But without anything to confirm the reasons for their 
actions, I cant fairly agree with them. Therefore, based on the information and evidence 
available to me, Im satisfied Metro should pay interest on the amount they withheld from 
Mr S from March 2020 up until the date they released the money back to him.
Mr S has asked for a significant amount of compensation from Metro. He said this overall 
situation caused him to leave University because he didnt have access to money  and that 
decision resulted in him paying student fees and student accommodation costs despite him 
not benefiting from them. Mr S has supplied our service with a letter confirming his University 
studies had been withdrawn. This letter is dated January 2020. Mr S told us, at the time 
Metro closed his account, he was working overseas. Based on this, I cant fairly agree that 
Mr S left University because of Metros actions. Metro didnt close Mr Ss account until 
February 2020 which is after the date issued on the letter Mr S has supplied, and when Mr S 
was already overseas according to his own testimony.
I do however recognise that this situation caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. He went 
without a significant amount of his money from March 2020 to October 2021 and Ive no doubt this would have been a really difficult time for him. Because of that, I think Metro 
should pay Mr S £300 compensation to put things right.
Putting things right
Overall, based on the evidence Ive received I think Metro should have asked Mr S questions 
relating to his entitlement to the money received into his account as part of their review. If 
they did this, they could have likely released the money to him sooner than they did. To 
recognise the loss of use of the funds, Metro should pay 8% interest on the amount they 
withheld from Mr S from March 2020 until the date they did refund it. They also should pay 
£300 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Metro 
Bank PLC should do the following:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the total money withheld from Mr S from 3 
March 2020 until the date they refunded Mr S.
HM Revenue & Customs require Metro Bank PLC to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Metro should give Mr S a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr S asks for one.
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman