DRN-3519819
Complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of A (a limited company) that PrePay Technologies Limited didnt 
do enough to protect him when he was the victim of fraud or to recover the money hed lost.
Background
Mr H is a director of A, a limited company which has an account with PrePay. In November 
2020, he received a phone call from someone claiming to be an employee of Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC). He was told that he owed tax in relation to the activities of 
A. He was told that if he didnt pay the outstanding tax, hed be arrested and face criminal 
prosecution. He believed he was speaking with an employee of HMRC and so he agreed to 
make a payment. He made two transfers from his account with PrePay of £2,250 and 
£2,736.
Unfortunately, he wasnt dealing with a legitimate representative of HMRC, but a scammer.
He realised he must have fallen victim to a scam when he was asked to make further
payments. He contacted PrePay to let it know. It investigated his complaint but declined to
pay him a refund.
Mr H was unhappy with this and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at
by an Investigator who said that PrePay shouldve recognised that these two payments were
out of character and indicative of a higher risk of fraud. It shouldnt have processed them
without first asking Mr A several questions to satisfy itself that he hadnt been targeted by a
scam. The Investigator thought that, if this had been done, it would have come to light that
Mr H had been targeted by a scammer.
The Investigator also considered whether Mr H should bear some responsibility for his loss.
However, he was persuaded that hed acted reasonably. He said the call appeared to have
been made from a number genuinely connected with HMRC. Mr H wasnt aware that it was
possible to spoof phone numbers so understandably took the call at face value.
PrePay disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said:
Its fraud detection systems are annually audited by the regulator and are considered 
compliant.
Mr H had a business account, not a personal one. It argued that identifying an errant 
payment is more difficult on a business account and that it cant realistically block 
payments of this size given the impact it would have on its business customers more 
generally.
Mr H shouldnt have attached so much significance to the fact that the scammers 
knew information about his company. The information they relied on is in the public 
domain on the Companies House website.
Mr H shouldve known what his tax liabilities were and recognised that the call from 
the scammers couldnt have been legitimate.
Because PrePay disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint was been passed to
me to consider. I issued a provisional decision on 16 May 2022 in which I said I intended to 
come to a different outcome to that reached by the Investigator. I said:
It is common ground that Mr H authorised the scam payments. He was tricked by the
scammers into instructing PrePay to transfer those sums on the basis that he was 
paying off an outstanding tax liability. I accept that this was an authorised payment 
even though Mr H was the victim of a scam. He used his security credentials to 
request the payments. He didnt intend the money to go to the scammers. 
Nonetheless, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of his account he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider PrePay should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
PrePay therefore needed to be on the lookout for payments that were out of 
character and where there was a greater risk of fraud. I accept that it was unusual for 
As account to transfer around £5,000 in one day. However, this was split across two 
payments.
The first payment was for £2,250. In isolation, I wouldnt expect PrePay to treat a 
payment of this size as being indicative of a fraud risk. It did represent a change in 
the use of the account. However, PrePay needs to strike a balance between carrying 
out the legitimate payment instructions of its customers and monitoring accounts for 
fraud. This payment was not large enough for PrePay to have reasonably assumed it 
represented an increased risk of fraud.
However, by the time Mr H made his second payment in quick succession, I think it 
ought to have realised that there was a risk that hed had been targeted by a 
fraudster. It should not have processed the second payment until it queried it with Mr 
H to satisfy itself that there was no meaningful risk of fraud. On balance, I think its 
likely that, if Mr H had been asked about this payment, PrePay wouldve been able to 
uncover that hed been targeted by a fraudster and so prevented him from making 
that payment. Unfortunately, the second payment appears to have been made 
around 20 minutes after the first one. It had already been removed from the receiving 
account by this point, so PrePay couldnt have recovered the earlier payment even if 
it uncovered the scam earlier.
Contributory NegligenceThe Investigator didnt think Mr H should be considered partly responsible for his 
losses. However, I dont share that conclusion. He told PrePay that the scammers 
told him not to tell anyone what this money is for and that he was told to not tell 
PrePay that the payment was to HMRC because it would be blocked. Im surprised 
that Mr H wasnt concerned by this request. A genuine caller from HMRC wouldnt 
ask him to conceal the purpose of the payment in this way. When Mr H was asked to 
do this, he ought to have recognised the risk that he wasnt dealing with a legitimate 
caller. I also think Mr H shouldve questioned why he was being asked to settle an 
outstanding tax bill by making a payment to a private
individuals account.
PrePay has said that Mr H shouldve been aware of what his outstanding tax 
liabilities were and so recognised that this call was unlikely to be genuine. He says 
that he was told that the alleged tax liability was in connection with the activity of A. 
Ive looked at the accounts for A and I think Mr H shouldve been surprised to learn 
that he had such a large outstanding tax payment.
Overall, I think Mr H ought to have recognised the risk that this wasnt a genuine 
contact from an HMRC employee and so I think its fair and reasonable for him to 
bear responsibility for 50% of the loss.
Recovery of funds
Mr H has said the PrePay didnt act quickly enough to recover his money from the 
receiving account. But from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it wouldve made any 
difference. The payments he made were removed from the receiving account after 8 
minutes and 5 minutes respectively, so even if PrePay had acted more quickly it 
wouldnt have made any difference.
I directed PrePay to refund 50% of the second payment Mr H made to the scammer (£1,368) 
and to add on 8% simple interest per annum. Mr H disagreed with my findings. He said that:
- PrePay didnt do enough to recover the money he lost to the scam. If it had acted 
more quickly, it wouldve been able to recover his money.
- The payment he was told he had to make wasnt just to cover an outstanding tax 
liability, but also to cover legal costs associated with the case against him.
- He was told that the payments were being made to a private individual and that 
person was his court appointed solicitor who was handling the matter on his behalf.
- He hadnt been a company director before, and hed had no previous involvement 
with HMRC.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the view I reached in my provisional 
findings. 
Mr H says that, PrePay couldve recovered the money he lost to the scammers. He made a 
separate payment to the scammer from an account he has with a different bank and that 
was successfully recovered. He thinks that if PrePay had acted more quickly it couldve 
recovered his funds in the same way. However, it looks like Mr H notified it of the scam at 
around 3.15pm on 25 November 2020. All of his funds had been removed from the receiving 
account by 11.58am the same day.Mr H was told that the payment wasnt merely to cover outstanding tax, but legal fees too 
and that the payment was to be made to his solicitor. Nonetheless, its surprising that he 
took this at face value given that his company didnt appear to have done very much trading 
and it wouldve been hasty and punitive for Mr H to have faced criminal sanctions for what 
could only have been administrative oversight.  I accept that this was his first appointment as 
a company director (although he had another appointment by the time of the scam) and that 
hed had no dealings with HMRC in the past.  I also recognise that the scammers must have 
sought to put him under significant pressure to pay up and that the fear of the potential 
consequences must have made it seem very real. But for the reasons Ive already outlined in 
my provisional findings, I think there were several clear indicators that this wasnt a 
legitimate call. Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for him to have proceeded in the 
light of that risk.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this decision in part.
If A accepts my decision, PrePay Technologies Limited should pay him £1,368 without 
delay. It should add on 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from the 
date A fell victim to the scam until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman