DRN-2175354
The complaint
Miss F doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged 
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
In April 2020, RBS wrote to Miss F to confirm there was additional redress due on loan 
account number ending 0245 due to a miscalculation made on a gesture of goodwill 
payment made in April 2010. 
RBS also wrote to Miss F in April 2020 offering redress on another loan, account number 
ending 1878.
RBS worked out that, after tax, it needed to pay Miss F:
Loan account ending 0245: £3,208.28 
Loan account ending 1878: £4,372.10 
In total, RBS said Miss F was owed £7,580.38 (after tax).
However, Miss F granted a trust deed  which became protected  for her creditors in April 
2009.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and their creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers their property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among creditors according to 
the respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold policy is, as 
an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A 
trust deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the consumer for their 
debts, the restoration to them of any surplus and the discharge of the trustee.
RBS says Miss F still owed it £7,506.60 when she was discharged from her trust deed in 
August 2013. RBS used Miss Fs PPI compensation to reduce this debt. It issued a cheque 
to Miss F for the difference between what she owed and the amount it had worked out. This 
was £73.78. RBS has now told us the amount it said Miss F owed also includes £225.36 in 
interest that it shouldnt have charged as Miss F was insolvent. It has arranged to pay this to 
Miss F.
Miss F doesnt think this is fair. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she 
was discharged when her trust deed came to an end. The case is Called Donnelly v Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56. And the Supreme Court refused permission to appeal. 
However, when the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the 
Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or 
undo the consumers discharge. This would re-open the trust proceedings and allow it to 
assert its right of set-off.
The court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the 
consumers creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and usually 
would set aside the consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional circumstances 
which would make it inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court concluded that there 
were exceptional circumstances and refused to reverse the consumers discharge. It took 
into account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the consumers 
discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted litigation; the fact that the 
outstanding sum was paltry from the businesss perspective (and in proportion to the legal 
fees likely to have been incurred) but not an insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that 
there would be adverse consequences for the consumer and no means to alleviate them.
What does this mean for Miss F?
Simply put, on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as those in this case, RBS couldnt plead set-off in court unless the court first set 
aside Miss Fs discharge. And, of course, the court may decide not to do this. 
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
And I think its fair for RBS to use Miss Fs PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and 
left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair 
that they each pay what they owe.
Fortunately, I dont need to worry about the practical and procedural difficulties of reversing 
Miss Fs discharge. She was discharged from her trust deed in August 2013. Nothing I can 
say will change that. 
Miss F has said that RBS is the only business that is using set-off in this way. I cant 
comment on what a different creditor would do. We look at each case on its own merits, and 
in this case, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell RBS to do the same as Miss F is 
suggesting.
Miss F told us that she would not have gone into arrears if it werent for the PPI and so 
wouldnt have had to enter into a trust deed. If RBS hadnt sold Miss F these policies, I think 
she would have still entered the trust deed  the PPI was only a part of what she borrowed. 
But she would have owed less and that is the position RBSs offer puts her in. While I 
acknowledge that the amount RBS has now worked out is more than Miss F owed, much of 
this is simple interest to compensate Miss F for the time she was out of pocket. The amount 
Miss F actually paid towards the PPI was less, and I think it would have been fair for RBS to 
take into account the amount Miss F hadnt repaid when it worked out this interest.
Miss F has also said that her recollection is that she had three loans with PPI, and not just 
two. We asked for evidence from RBS to clarify the number of loans Miss F had taken. The 
database evidence it has given us shows that while Miss F had other accounts, these were 
the only two loans taken, and with PPI. 
Miss F has chosen to revisit something that happened before she granted her trust deed  
the sale of the PPI policies. I think its only fair that I take into account what has happened 
since. RBS said that Miss F owed RBS £7,506.60 when her trust deed came to an end. (It 
now says that £225.36 of that was interest in suspense that shouldnt have been included 
because she was insolvent.) Her discharge relieved her of liability, but it didnt extinguish the 
underlying debt. I simply dont see how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Miss F the full 
compensation for mis-selling PPI given how much she owed and didnt need to repay. 
Whats more, if the trust had been administered without error  if Miss Fs trustee hadnt 
made the mistake of discharging her without first pursuing the PPI claims  RBS would have 
been able to assert its right of set off and keep her PPI compensation. 
RBS has now sent Miss F two cheques: £73.78 for the difference between what it owed and 
what Miss F hadnt repaid, and £225.36 for the additional amount it incorrectly included in 
Miss Fs outstanding balance. In the circumstances, I think this is a fair outcome to Miss Fs 
complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use  
Miss Fs PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed 
came to an end. RBS has paid Miss F the difference between the PPI compensation and the 
amount Miss F didnt repay following the trust deed. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman