DRN-2259010
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that, without her consent, Aviva Equity Release UK Limited allowed 
her husband, from whom she is now estranged, to withdraw £15,000 on their joint equity 
release mortgage. To settle the complaint Mrs W would like Aviva to compensate her for her 
losses.
 
What happened
The events giving rise to the complaint involve personal issues between Mr and Mrs W. Our 
decisions are published, so its important that I dont say anything in this decision that might 
identify Mrs W. I confirm Ive read and taken note of everything but I will not set out all the 
details here, to preserve Mrs Ws anonymity and privacy.
In any event, Aviva has accepted that it should have spoken to Mrs W before allowing Mr W 
to draw down the £15,000 from the available reserve on their equity release mortgage. 
Consequently I dont need to go into the details of whats happened. All I need to decide is 
what Aviva must do to put things right.
Briefly, what happened is that on 12 February 2020 Mr W contacted Aviva and asked to 
draw down £15,000 from their equity release mortgage. Aviva accepts that it should have 
spoken to Mrs W before agreeing to this, but it didnt and on 13 February 2020 allowed Mr W 
to withdraw the funds, which were transferred to Mr and Mrs Ws joint account. 
When Mrs W found out about this, she complained to Aviva, which accepted it had made a 
mistake. On 14 February 2020 Aviva said that if Mrs W was able to return the £15,000 
(which is what she told Aviva she wanted to do), it would restore the account to the position 
it would have been in had the drawdown not been made.  
By July 2020, when Aviva issued its final response, Mrs W hadnt returned the funds. Aviva 
said that it couldnt allow the matter to continue indefinitely. Aviva said that if Mrs W didnt 
want to return the funds by 10 September 2020, Aviva would need to consider the release as 
final and would apply interest as from that date.
Aviva also offered Mrs W compensation of £1,000 for the trouble and upset she had been 
caused.
Mrs W wasnt happy with this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In the 
meantime, Mrs W moved £7,500 of the money to her own account. I understand Mr W has 
retained the other £7,500.
Aviva said that if Mrs W wanted to return the £7,500, it would reverse that on the account as 
if it had never been drawn down. But the £7,500 retained by Mr W would attract interest and 
charges in line with the terms of the account.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She asked Aviva that, if Mrs W repaid the £7,500, if 
it would consider not applying interest to the remaining £7,500 for the lifetime of the loan, nor 
any early repayment charge (ERC) if it was repaid by Mr W. She also asked Aviva to 
consider treating this as unsecured borrowing. 
But the investigator thought that if Mrs W retained the £7,500, then the whole £15,000 
should be subject to interest and charges as per the account terms and conditions. The 
investigator thought the offer of compensation of £1,000 was fair.
Aviva said that it thought its original offer was fair and that if Mrs W was to return the £7,500 
she had retained, it would reverse this on the account. But Aviva didnt think it was fair to 
treat the borrowing as unsecured or to charge no interest or ERC on it.
Mrs W said shed not yet made a decision on whether or not to return the £7,500, but asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
As the matter remains unresolved it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, because Avivas accepted it made a mistake, Ive not needed to go into the 
details of what happened or why. But Ive noted Mrs Ws very difficult personal situation and 
I acknowledge the dilemma she is now facing about whether or not to return the £7,500. The 
fact I havent mentioned any of the personal details of what Mrs W has told us is purely to 
maintain her anonymity; Ive taken careful note of everything shes told us and I fully 
acknowledge shes been through an awful situation that has caused her great anguish.
But what I have to decide is whether the offer made by Aviva  to reverse the £7,500 off the 
account if it is returned, and to pay compensation of £1,000  is fair and reasonable, or 
whether Aviva needs to do anything more. I cannot allow myself to be swayed by my natural 
empathy for Mrs W when deciding what is the fairest outcome.
 
Putting things right
Having looked at whats happened, I think Avivas offer is fair. These are my reasons.
The £15,000 was paid into Mr and Mrs Ws joint account, and Mrs W has withdrawn half of it. 
I dont know if the other £7,500 retained by Mr W has been spent or not. If it has not, then it 
is open to Mr and Mrs W to return the full £15,000 if they wish to do so. Aviva has said that if 
they do, it will reverse this off the account as if it had not been drawn down. Im satisfied that 
this is reasonable.
Im also satisfied that it would be reasonable, if Mrs W was to return the £7,500, for Aviva to 
reverse this on the mortgage account as if it had never been drawn down, backdated to the 
date of release, 13 February 2020. The remaining £7,500 will attract interest and charges in 
accordance with the terms of the mortgage contract. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for Aviva to charge no interest or ERC on this, if Mr W has had the benefit of it.
If Mrs W wants to retain the £7,500, then interest and charges (including any ERC) will apply 
to the entire £15,000, in accordance with the contractual terms. I can see no basis upon 
which it would be fair or reasonable for Aviva to not apply interest in these circumstances. 
I think the date that interest should apply is one day after the date for responding to this final 
decision has expired. The date to respond is 5 April 2021. So if Mrs W doesnt repay the £7,500 by the following day, 6 April 2021, Aviva will be entitled to assume that she intends to 
retain it and will be entitled charge interest on the full amount from then on.
I do appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Mrs W, and I dont underestimate the 
effect this has had on her. I think Avivas offer to pay compensation of £1,000 for the distress 
and upset Mrs W has suffered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It reflects the 
impact its error has had on Mrs W, although I dont believe Aviva could, or should, have 
known that its error would have resulted in the events that later transpired. I will not set out 
these events, in order to preserve Mrs Ws privacy, but I accept it was a very hard time for 
her.
Conclusion
To summarise:
Im satisfied Aviva is entitled to charge interest and (if applicable as per the terms and 
conditions) an ERC on any part of the £15,000 advance that is not repaid by 6 April 
2021.
I think the compensation of £1,000 offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Finally, I am told by Mrs W that Mr W has now been diagnosed with dementia. I am very 
sorry to hear this. I must explain the implications of this in relation to the mortgage and 
Aviva. If Mr W no longer has (or loses in the future) the capacity to make any decisions 
about his finances, it would be helpful if Mr Ws doctor could provide a report to Aviva for its 
records about his cognitive capacity. Mrs W might also find it helpful to speak to someone 
from Age Concern about the support available to her. We can provide Mrs W with contact 
details, if shed like us to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that, if it has not already done so, Aviva Equity Release UK Limited must 
pay Mrs W £1,000 compensation for trouble and upset. I make no other award or order of 
redress. Mrs W must now decide if she wants to repay the £7,500 by 6 April 2021 or retain it, 
in which case it will be subject to interest and charges as per the contract terms.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman