DRN-3335338
The complaint
Mr O complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited has mishandled his complaint that 
the car hed acquired via a hire purchase agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. He now 
wishes to reject the car and cancel the agreement.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr O entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Oodle for 
a used car. The car was around six years old and had a mileage of 94,000. The car came 
with a three month or 3000-mile warranty.
Mr O says that the car developed a problem with a diesel leak shortly after he acquired it 
which was repaired by the dealership under the warranty. In January 2020 the car broke 
down and Mr O says he was told by the dealership that as hed now driven more than 
3,000 miles the warranty wouldnt cover any further repairs.
Mr O arranged for a mechanic to inspect the car who ran a diagnostic. Mr O says he 
was advised that fuel injectors 2 and 4 had reached their maximum level. Mr O 
complained to Oodle at the end of January 2020 about the quality of the car. He told 
Oodle that the injectors would cost around £500 each to replace. He said his preferred 
option was for the car to be repaired.
In February 2020 Mr O raised whether he could reject the car due to its faults. He also sent 
a video to Oodle demonstrating that the car wouldnt start. Oodle contacted the broker who 
had arranged the credit agreement and asked them to speak with the supplying dealer as 
to whether further evidence would be required that the fault with the injectors had been 
present at the point of sale.
Mr O called Oodle and said hed been told by a mechanic that he should change all four 
injectors and that the cost of this repair would be £1,100 plus £300 for a service. He 
also said he had spoken to the supplying dealer who had refused to undertake the 
repair. Mr O again asked about rejecting the car. Oodle said that there would need to 
be evidence the fault had been present at the point of supply and that the retailer also 
had a right of repair before the car could be rejected. Oodle suggested that the car 
should be independently inspected. Mr O said he would be happy for that to take place.
Oodle requested that Mr O provide some documentation that would confirm the remedial 
action required to fix the car. Mr O responded by email that he had been quoted £1,152 
to repair all four injectors and that he had also been told the car would require a service 
taking the total cost to £1,400.
The supplying dealer then said it was prepared to carry out the necessary repairs but 
that it wouldnt cover the cost of transporting the car from Mr Os house to the garage 
due to the distance and subsequent cost involved. The dealer also advised that the cost 
of repairs would be significantly lower than that given by Mr O.
Mr O declined to cover the cost of transporting the car back to the supplying dealer but 
before this issue could then be resolved the dealership closed due to covid. Mr O 
informed Oodle that the mechanic he used was still operating. Mr O expressed 
reservations about the supplying dealer fixing the car due to the cost it had quoted.
Oodle asked if Mr O was able to obtain a second quote for repairing the car. Mr O 
responded that the first quote was reasonable and that a second quote hed obtained 
was for £1,548. He said that Oodle had now had more than enough time to arrange the 
repairs and he wanted to reject the car.
Around 10 days later Oodle told Mr O that it would agree to directly pay him the sum of 
£1,150 for him to arrange for the repairs to be carried out. Mr O declined this offer and said 
he wanted the car collected and the agreement cancelled.
Oodle then sent Mr O its final response letter setting out that his complaint would not be 
upheld as an offer to pay for the repairs had been made. Oodle said that it had not 
received any reports as to the condition of the car, but it had made this gesture of 
goodwill in light of the difficulties caused by covid. Mr O disagreed he hadnt provided a 
diagnostic report and said it was clear the injectors would have been faulty at the point of 
supply. He said he had rejected the car.
There followed further contact between Mr O and Oodle. Oodle provided other options for 
Mr O to end his agreement but which didnt include Mr O being able to reject the car.
In September 2020 Mr O complained again to Oodle about the quality of the car and said 
it now had further issues that needed repair due to the length of time it had stood without 
being used. Oodle responded that it had closed his complaint due to his refusal to accept 
its offer of £1,125 to carry out the repairs. Mr O informed Oodle that the cost of the repairs 
was now £3,450. Mr O also complained the car hadnt been independently inspected as 
originally agreed.
Oodle didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that it hadnt been sent any diagnostic report 
as to the faults with the car. It said it had offered to cover the cost of the repairs as 
indicated by Mr O, but he had refused this. Oodle said that the car wouldnt need 
additional repairs if Mr O had accepted its offer but the original offer of £1,125 was still 
open to Mr O.
Mr O complained to this service. He said the car now needed new tyres, new brakes, a 
new battery, a service, and the fuel injectors replacing. He said the bill for repairs was 
around £3,450. Mr O said he hadnt had reports prepared because hed been told the car 
would be independently inspected. He said he had rejected the car because Oodle had 
had a reasonable time to repair it but hadnt done so.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
thought there was a fault with the car but wasnt able to comment on whether it had been 
present at the point of supply. However, when a fault arose within six months of a car 
being acquired then it was usual to say that it was more likely than not that it had been 
present from the point of supply and that the business had one chance to repair. Only if 
the repair was unsuccessful would Mr O be expected to be allowed to reject the car.
Our investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence Oodle had been given an opportunity 
to repair the car. She said she thought its offer to cover the initial costs of the repairs had 
been fair. And that Oodle should be given the chance to now inspect the car and fix any 
faults they would be responsible for as the supplier of the car.
Mr O disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the £1,125 offered wouldnt 
have covered the cost of the repairs. Mr O also said it had been unfair to ask him to cover the costs of obtaining reports on the car as the fuel injectors had clearly been 
faulty from the point of supply. He said these parts should last much longer than 94,000 
miles.
Mr O said that Oodle had been the one to offer arranging for the car to be inspected and 
he had been unable to do so because the car was undrivable. He said he hadnt been 
able to use the car since January 2020.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider whats fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr O is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Oodle is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around six-years old and with a mileage of 94,000. I 
thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected 
there to be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car would have 
been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt have 
been an expectation that the car was fault free.
Mr O said hed supplied sufficient evidence as to the fault with the car as he provided a 
photo of the diagnostic equipment showing the fault. I havent seen this photo, but I have 
seen that Oodle appears to have received a video from Mr O regarding the cars condition 
when hed first complained. I also hadnt seen any evidence that Mr O provided written 
invoices as to the repairs that the car required. The figures hed given as to the cost of the 
repairs were either in emails or on the phone.
Mr O was disappointed that the car wasnt inspected by an independent engineer as had 
been agreed and said it was unfair that getting reports were left to him. Looking at the 
case notes kept by Oodle Id seen that an independent engineer was about to be 
arranged when there was a covid lockdown in March 2020. I thought it was 
understandable why, in these circumstances, an inspection hadnt then proceeded though 
I couldnt see this had been explained to Mr O. However, Id also seen that once the 
lockdown occurred Oodle had actively looked for a solution to resolving Mr Os complaint.
Although Oodle had concerns that there wasnt sufficient evidence as to the cars faults, 
I thought I could reasonably say it appeared to have accepted that there had been 
issues with the fuel injectors and that these had arisen within the first three months of Mr O having acquired the car. Mr O said these parts werent as durable as would be 
expected.
As I hadnt seen any evidence as to why these injectors had failed, I couldnt comment 
on whether this was an issue of wear and tear or a fault. However, looking at the amount 
of time that had passed since the inception of the agreement and the number of miles 
driven I thought on the face of it that it was more likely than not there was a fault with the 
car at the point of supply to Mr O. I also thought that Oodle was open to considering that 
the fault was one it may have responsibility for repairing.
Mr O originally informed Oodle that the cost of repairing the two injectors would be between
£250 and £300 per injector plus the cost of fitting. He later said hed had a quote of £500 
though it was unclear if that was per injector. Further into his negotiations with Oodle, Mr 
O said that he had been quoted costs of £1,100 which would cover all four injectors and 
that the mechanic had also recommended that a service be carried out at an additional 
cost of £300. Mr O then set out in fuller detail how this amount had been reached and 
the total cost including VAT amounted to £1,152 (not including the cost of the service).
Oodle liaised with the supplying dealer who said they could repair the car for £250 and 
agreed to carry out the repairs. This agreement though broke down due to the dealership 
declining to pay for the car to be transported to them. I accepted that it would be unfair for 
Mr O to have covered this cost in the circumstances and so with that, and covid closing 
the dealership, I thought Oodle had acted fairly in seeking another resolution to Mr Os 
complaint. It asked Mr O to get another quote. However, this additional quote was higher 
at £1,548, although again I hadnt seen that this quote was put in writing by the mechanic.
Oodle agreed to pay £1,125 to Mr O as he had assured it that this was a reasonable 
quote. However, Id seen that Mr O then rejected this offer, he said that it had taken too 
long to arrange the repairs but later said this offer wasnt enough to cover the costs. He 
said that if hed taken the offer, he would have had to pay an additional £850 to get the 
car repaired. Looking at the contents of the emails sent by Mr O to Oodle I was unsure 
why he said this amount wouldnt have been enough though I accepted the cost of the 
service hadnt been included.
In regard to the cost of the service, I didnt think it was reasonable for Oodle to have 
covered this cost. Under the terms of the agreement, services and other maintenance 
costs would be Mr Os responsibility. In the absence of any evidence as to why a service 
would be an essential part of the repairs, I wouldnt have expected Oodle to have added 
this amount into the cost of the repairs for the injectors. So, I thought the offer of £1,125 
had been reasonable to cover the costs as quoted by Mr O. 
Mr O had also raised that the repairs had taken too long to arrange. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 where a car is supplied thats faulty then the retailer has an opportunity to 
repair. It also says the repair should be carried out in a reasonable time though this isnt 
defined.
Looking at the chronology here, I thought Oodle had made the offer to cover the costs of 
the repairs in a reasonable period of time. Mr O had raised the issues he had with the car 
at the end of January, there followed discussions between Mr O about what was wrong 
with the car, seeking evidence of the fault, having the car inspected and liaising with the 
dealership. The offer to pay £1,125 was made in March 2020. I didnt think it was 
reasonable for Mr O to have rejected the offer to cover the cost of the repairs based on 
how long it had taken for Oodle to make.
Mr O had raised that the car now needed further repairs based on how long it had been standing without being used. But I didnt think I could reasonably hold Oodle responsible 
for issues that have now arisen with the tyres, brakes, battery etc. Had Mr O had the car 
repaired back in March 2020 then I thought it was unlikely these other repairs would have 
been required.
So, looking at the evidence I thought Oodles offer to pay Mr O £1,125 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I didnt agree that it would be reasonable for Mr O to 
now reject the car on the basis that this amount wouldnt cover all the repairs that were 
currently needed.
However, I noted that Mr O had been unable to use the car from January 2020 so I 
thought in addition to paying the repair costs it would be fair for Oodle to also reimburse 
Mr O his monthly payments under the agreement from January 2020 to April 2020. This 
reflected the period Mr O would have been unable to drive the car from the point it broke 
down to the point it would have been repaired had he accepted Oodles offer (which I 
understood was still available).
For the reasons given above I intended to partially uphold Mr Os complaint in that I asked 
Oodle to also reimburse his monthly payments from January 2020 to April 2020. This 
amounted to £859.16 being four months at £214.79pm. 
Oodle says it has nothing further to add in respect of my provisional decision. Mr O has 
provided the photo of the results of the diagnostic showing injectors 2 and 4 were faulty 
as well as the video showing the car wouldnt start. He also says he is still waiting for an 
explanation from Oodle as to why the car wasnt independently inspected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the conclusions I made in my provisional decision together with my reasons 
for reaching them and, although this will be of disappointment to Mr O, I havent changed my 
view. While Ive now seen the photo of the diagnostics and the video that Mr O had sent to 
Oodle this didnt alter what I had found about the condition of the car. That is because I had 
already found on the evidence that it was more likely than not that the fault with the injectors 
had been present with the car at the point of its supply to Mr O.
I appreciate Mr O was disappointed that the car wasnt independently inspected as had been 
agreed but this was due to the situation with covid. The lack of the inspection had meant that 
Oodle had looked at how it could resolve his complaint which I think was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr O hasnt provided any further evidence about the quotes hed received to repair the car. 
And so, for the reasons set out above, I think Oodles offer made in March 2020 to pay him 
£1,125 to cover the repairs to the injectors was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
This offer represented Oodles opportunity to repair the car and was made in a reasonable 
period of time. So, I dont think it would be fair for Mr O to reject the car. 
I also still dont think Oodle is responsible to cover the costs of the additional repairs caused 
by the delay in Mr O having the car repaired.
However, Mr O was unable to use the car from January 2020, but had he taken Oodles offer 
and had the car repaired then I think its fair to assume the car would have been driveable 
from April 2020. I think its fair Mr O is reimbursed the four monthly payments made under the agreement from January to April 2020 amounting to £859.16 to reflect the period he 
wasnt able to use the car.
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Os complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Oodle to do the following:
Pay Mr O £1,125 to cover the costs of the repairs to the fuel injectors.
Reimburse Mr O four months worth of payments under the agreement to 
reflect the period (January to April 2020) he would have been unable to use 
the car had he accepted Oodles offer. This amounts to £859.16 and should be 
paid together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im partially upholding Mr Os complaint. Im asking Oodle 
Financial Services Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr O £1,125 to cover the costs of the repairs to the fuel injectors.
Reimburse Mr O four months worth of payments under the agreement to 
reflect the period (January to April 2020) he would have been unable to use 
the car had he accepted Oodles offer. This amounts to £859.16 and should be 
paid together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman