DRN-4143340
The complaint
Mr H complains through a representative that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
(Cashfloat) didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks before it granted loans which he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr H took five loans from Cashfloat and a summary of his borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 30/03/2019 24/04/2019 2 £126.49
2 £200.00 07/06/2019 08/07/2019 1 £233.60
3 £200.00 27/08/2019 01/11/2019 2 £142.41
4 £400.00 01/11/2019 04/02/2020 4 £144.44
gap in lending
5 £300.00 16/05/2022 outstanding 3 £162.95
Cashfloat wrote to Mr Hs representative with a final response letter and explained why it 
didnt consider an error had been made when providing these loans. However, as a gesture 
of goodwill Cashfloat offered to reduce Mr Hs debt by £111.25. Unhappy with this offer, 
Mr Hs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator and in her latest assessment she 
concluded Cashfloat made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1  3 and loan 5. But for 
loan 4, she thought further checks were needed considering his borrowing history and the 
fact this loan was twice as much as the previous ones. Further checks wouldve highlighted 
that Mr Hs monthly expenditure exceeded his income. The complaint was upheld about loan 
4 only. 
Cashfloat didnt agree with the outcome about loan 4, and Ive summarised its response 
below:
There had been some previous breaks in borrowing suggesting he wasnt caught in a 
cycle of debt. 
Cashfloat knew that Mr H lived at home with parents and so his low living costs didnt 
seem out of place.
Proportionate checks were carried out which suggested a disposable income of £412 
per month.
While Mr H did borrow £400 he actually requested a loan of £500 and his loan 
repayments were at a similar monthly amount compared to loan 3. 
Loan 4 was repaid early. 
Mr Hs representative confirmed that he accepted the outcome. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. After 
the case was passed to me, I asked for some further information from both parties. Firstly, to 
clarify the redress the adjudicator recommended and secondly, Cashfloat confirmed the offer 
it made in the final response letter has been withdrawn. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Hs complaint. 
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H accepted the outcome that had been reached by the adjudicator about loans 1  3 and 
loan 5. And Cashfloat also agreed with the outcome that had been reached about those 
loans. So, these loans no longer appear to be in dispute and I say no more about them. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Cashfloat did anything wrong when loan 4 was 
granted.  
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr H worked full time and received a monthly salary of £1,000. 
Cashfloat says this figure was cross referenced with a third-party salary tool, and the results 
were positive, indicating Mr Hs declared income was likely to be accurate. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr H declared to be £320 per 
month. Cashfloat says that it was reasonable to rely on this lower figure because Mr H 
declared he lived at home with parents and had no dependants. Which I dont think was 
unreasonable. 
Its worth saying here that Cashfloat says that in previous applications Mr H had declared 
larger monthly outgoings and thinking about those and what Cashfloat calls its trigger 
values that it calculated Mr Hs outgoings to more likely be £588.72 per month. And 
Cashfloat says this left around £412 per month to cover the largest repayment due for this 
loan of around £144. 
Before this loan was approved Cashfloat also likely carried out a credit search but the results 
of what it may or may not have seen for this loan havent been provided due to only having 
access to the results for a period of 12 months.
However, in saying that, I do think the checks that Cashfloat checks needed to have gone 
further. This was Mr Hs largest loan  he was borrowing double what he had previously 
taken, he was due to make repayments over the longest period of time  4 months. And this 
loan was taken on the same day that loan 3 had been repaid. Added to which I consider that 
a salary of £1,000 a month to have been a modest one and so greater care was called for  
even if Mr H was living at home with parents. 
Given the factors Ive mentioned above, I think Cashfloat needed to gain a full understanding 
of Mr Hs actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This 
couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, looking at 
bank statements and/or collecting any other documentation Cashfloat felt it needed to obtain 
to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable for Mr H. 
As part of the information supplied to the Financial Ombudsman Mr Hs representatives has 
provided copy bank statements. So given what Ive said above I think its entirely reasonable 
to review and see what the statements show. 
From the statements it does seem that Mr H was already having problems managing his 
money. I say this because at the time loan 4 was granted, he was servicing at least 5 other 
payday loans which was costing him £758.21 per month. On top of this he was also using a 
flexible drawdown facility that was costing around £150 per month. So just on payday loans 
and the flexible facility, Mr H was due to pay out around £900 each month, before any living 
costs or his repayment to Cashfloat was accounted for. And his income did appear to be 
around £1,000 per month and therefore this loan was clearly unaffordable for him. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint about the loan, and Ive outlined below what 
Cashfloat needs to do to put things right for him. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 4 to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr H loan 4. 
A. Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Cashfloat have already refunded.
B. Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Cashfloat can use any refund due for loan 4, to offset the outstanding balance due 
for loan 5. If after doing this there is a surplus than this should be paid to Mr H. 
D. Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint in part. 
Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should put things right for Mr H as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman