DRN-2363142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Bank of Ireland objected to the complaint being considered by this service because it 
thought Mr and Mrs B had made the complaint too late.
Our adjudicator looked at this  but didnt think we could help with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
about how the policy was sold. 
Mr and Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr and Mrs B complaint.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or, (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Bank of Ireland hasnt agreed.
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI in 1991 at the same time as arranging their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B made the complaint to Bank of Ireland in 2019. This is more than six years 
after the sale of the policy in 1991  which is the event Mr and Mrs B are complaining about 
here. So I need to consider whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr 
and Mrs B should reasonably have been aware that there was cause to complain.
Mr and Mrs B say they were given the impression they had to take the PPI as part of the 
mortgage agreement. But they cancelled the policy in May 2007. This demonstrates that 
they knew at that time that they didnt have to keep the policy  so this would have alerted 
them to there being an issue at the time that they had cause to complain about. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs B say they assumed that the criteria had changed and so the PPI was no longer 
compulsory in 2007. However, overall, I still consider that they would have become aware in 
2007 that they might have reason to complain.
Three years from the cancellation date was May 2010, which means that Mr and Mrs B 
needed to make the complaint about the policy by that date. But as they didnt complain until 
2019, the complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if I am satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. However, other than the reason 
given above, Mr and Mrs B havent provided any explanation of why they were unable to 
complain at an earlier time.
So Im sorry that we are unable to help Mr and Mrs B with their complaint about how this 
policy was sold.
On another point, I can see that Bank of Ireland has paid back to Mr and Mrs B the amount 
of commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, which I 
think is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I am unable to look into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about how the PPI 
policy was sold, as it was made out of time and there are no exceptional circumstances for 
the delay.
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation in this respect.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman