DRN-1901806
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
He says he was led to believe the policy was a condition of his mortgage, but he didnt need 
cover. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said: 
Life cover was a condition of Mr Ks mortgage  as evidenced by Barclays mortgage 
offer letter  so he was unable to say that Mr K was misled about life cover being a 
condition of the mortgage because it was.  
On the contrary, Mr K was obliged to obtain life cover in order to secure the mortgage 
from Barclays. But if Mr K was unhappy with the conditions of lending he couldve 
gone elsewhere. 
 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says that he wasnt told that if he was unhappy with the recommendation that he could seek 
cover elsewhere, so felt he had no choice but to accept Barclays condition if he wanted his 
mortgage. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr K says, Im unable to say that 
he was misled about the need for life cover in respect of his repayment mortgage. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
Its evident from the mortgage offer letter that life cover was a condition of Barclays lending 
money, therefore it wouldnt have been possible at the time for Mr K to obtain a mortgage 
with Barclays without this cover in place. 
I note the mortgage offer letter dated 19 November 1986  under the section titled Security 
 clearly states:
A first mortgage of an approved life policy (which may be a mortgage protection policy) 
with...at least sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the Home Mortgage at any time 
during the term. (In the case of a Guardian Royal Exchange Homeguard policy taken out 
specially for this Home Mortgage, the mortgage to the Bank is contained in the assurance 
documents and no separate mortgage of the policy will be required)..
So, Im unable to safely say that Mr K was misled about life cover being a condition. On the 
contrary I think the information provided was reasonably clear, far and not misleading. 
I appreciate Mr K may not be happy with the condition, and questions whether it was 
necessary for Barclays to request this. But as a lender, Barclays is entitled  within the 
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  to attach conditions to its 
lending, particularly as a means of security. In the circumstances its not something that Im 
able to criticise the business for. 
Im aware that prior to 2000, life cover (for the term and amount of the mortgage) was a 
condition for a number of lenders, including Barclays, so it wasnt limited to Barclays. 
I agree with the investigator that if Mr K was unhappy with the conditions of his mortgage, he 
couldve sought a different lender. Or if he didnt want this particular policy with Barclays, he 
couldve gone elsewhere. 
I appreciate Mr K says that he didnt know that he could go elsewhere if he was unhappy 
with Barclays recommendation, but Ive also seen nothing to suggest that he was told that 
he couldnt. In other words, just because life cover was a condition of Mr Ks mortgage with 
Barclays, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was obliged to buy life cover from Barclays. 
Im conscious Mr K feels that he was misled about the whole thing, but on balance Im 
unable to agree that he was. 
I note Barclays has offered to pay Mr K £100 compensation for any trouble and upset 
caused by the time consuming way in which it dealt with the complaint. In the circumstances 
I think the compensation is fair and reasonable.   
I appreciate Mr Ks overall concerns with the situation and recognise he will be disappointed 
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the matter careful 
consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman