DRN-3959313
The complaint
Mr C and Miss G complain through their representative (NSL) that Arrow Global Limited 
trading as Arrow Global (Arrow) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their complaint under 
Sections 75 or 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product 
purchased in November 2007.
What happened
In mid-2007 whilst visiting a county show Mr C and Miss G were given a leaflet on which 
they were later told they had won a free holiday to Tenerife. They went on that holiday in 
August 2007 and purchased a trial membership from a timeshare provider, (the supplier). 
They did that with a loan provided by a third party. Using that trial membership, they went on 
another holiday in November 2007 when they purchased a silver membership giving them 
further points with the supplier. In 2008 they say they were persuaded to upgrade to a gold 
membership, but the loan for that was provided by a different company.
Mr C and Miss G say they were pressured into buying the trial and silver membership, as 
well as the upgrade to gold. I understand that they stopped paying maintenance charges in 
2014 as a result of which their membership has been suspended. They say that when trying 
to make bookings using the silver membership they learned that they could only make 
bookings for 14 day periods. Due to work commitments they could only travel for 10 days at 
a time, so they lost 4 days of their points due to the way the product was set up.
They believe the product was misrepresented to them - in addition they were led to believe 
that the product was an investment whereas the company selling the product had no 
ownership of the properties in question. So a breach of contract was alleged as well.
Arrow considered the claims but decided that as it wasnt involved in the supply of the 
product, Mr C and Miss G should be referred back to the supplier for a full reply.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator said that as far as the trial 
membership was concerned, that was bought with the loan from another lender, and the 
loan was fully paid up before Arrow took it over. He said that Arrow was responsible for 
dealing with a claim under s75 CCA in respect of the purchase of the silver membership. 
Although any claim in respect of the gold membership was the responsibility of a different 
loan company.
In respect of the silver membership our investigator said that the Limitation Act applied to 
any claim for misrepresentation under s75 CCA, and as Mr C and Miss G didnt raise their 
claim within six years of purchasing the membership, it would be out of time.
In respect of the alleged breach of contract and a claim under s140A of CCA, our 
investigator was not persuaded that there was anything in the way the product was sold that 
would likely lead a court to find that there was an unfair relationship. He also found that there 
was nothing unfair in the fact that commission may have been payable. And that the sale of 
the finance was provided by a licensed credit broker.
Mr C and Miss G didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Miss G bought three holiday products, trial membership, silver membership and 
gold membership, of a vacation club. My view is that the trial membership was funded by a 
loan that was fully paid up before Arrow took over their loan account. And the gold 
membership was paid for by a loan from a further different company.
My view is further that as Arrow has agreed that it is responsible for the loan account for the 
silver membership from when it took it over in 2016, it is also responsible for replying to the 
claims under s75 and 140A CCA.
Ive noted that Arrow didnt provide a full response in respect of any claims under s75 or 
140A. Nevertheless Im able to consider complaints about both of those claims
s75 CCA
As Mr C and Miss G have professional representatives, I wont go into detail about the law 
that applies, but essentially Mr C and Miss Gs claim is brought under s75 CCA. In summary 
this sets out that a borrower under a credit agreement has equal rights to pursue a claim 
against the lender as against the supplier in respect of misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.
A claim for misrepresentation against Arrow would ordinarily be made under Section
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors
[2012] that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes
of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of
action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr C and Miss G made a like claim against Arrow under s75 CCA and the limitation period 
for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. This means that they 
had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
That date would be, in respect of any misrepresentation, the date the contract was signed, 
which was in November 2007 (for the silver membership). The complaint regarding the sale 
of the holiday product was first raised with Arrow in about September 2017. I have to take 
the law into account. If Mr C and Miss G were to try to take Court proceedings against 
Arrow, it would have a complete defence to that in that any such proceedings would be out 
of time. So it would not be fair and reasonable for me to consider such a complaint.
s140A CCA
This provides that:
1) The court may make an order under s140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement.(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement.
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In Mr C and Miss Gs case, this, in my view, could cover the alleged misrepresentation or 
breach of contract and/or whether undue pressure was applied.
A misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact or law made by one party to a contract to 
the other that:
isnt true; and
has the result that the person to whom its made enters into the contract
In respect of the silver membership the alleged misrepresentation relates to Mr C and 
Miss Gs apparent inability to buy less than 14 days worth of points though they could only 
travel for 10 days at a time and that they were convinced about the benefits of membership. 
This appears to have been something Mr C and Miss G raised after the event. Theyve 
provided no details about where and when any misrepresentations were made or that they 
relied on them to make the purchase.
Mr C and Miss G say they were told the membership was an investment. NSL in fact said 
the agent opined that a membership was perfect for them and that it would be an 
investment. Ive seen nothing in the papers to suggest that Mr C and Miss G would be 
buying part ownership of any property  such evidence as there is says it was points they 
were buying. And what was said seems to be the agents opinion rather than a factual 
statement. Im not persuaded that there was any untrue misrepresentation made that 
induced then to enter into the contract (for silver membership).
As regards pressure selling, Mr C and Miss G had already attended a sales presentation in 
respect of the trial membership. If they were unhappy at the way this had been sold they 
would have been aware of the what a sales meeting might entail. And I can understand that 
they felt pressurised. But from the evidence of their recollections of an event that had taken 
place 10 years ago and understanding that sort of sales meetings usually do last a long time, 
I cant really say that the pressure was such as to find that the relationship between Mr C 
and Miss G and Arrow was unfair, and I dont think it likely that a court would find that to be 
the case. 
In respect of the allegation that commission was not disclosed to Mr C and Miss G, I dont 
think that the sort of commission paid in such transactions was sufficiently high to cause an 
unfair relationship should Mr C and Miss G not have been told about it.
As for the allegation that the credit was sold to Mr C and Miss G by an unlicensed broker, 
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that the company that arranged the credit wasnt 
licensed at the time.
To sum up, and bearing in mind that I have only considered events around the purchase of 
the silver membership, I think that any claim made under s75 CCA would have been out of 
time under the LA. And, whilst noting Mr C and Miss Gs allegations of misrepresentation 
and breach of contract and pressure selling I dont think that a court would likely find there to 
have been an unfair relationship. I also dont think that the alleged failure to disclose 
commission or the allegation that the broker was balanced have any merit. 
For the sake of completeness I should add that I understand the loan account was sold to a 
third party on 14 November 2022. But I confirm that Arrow has advised that it accepts responsibility for the loan account and any issues that arose before that date. So Im content 
that Arrow is the correct respondent.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman