DRN-3603262
The complaint
T,  a sole trader business, complains that Retail Merchant Services Limited mis-sold a card 
processing agreement.
What happened
On 18 March 2021 T met with two representations of RMS. The owner of T says the 
understanding was that it had purchased a new card terminal by paying an upfront fee. And 
the ongoing card processing fees were discussed. The owner of T signed an agreement on 
a tablet device. When T later received emailed copies of the agreement it found that it had 
entered into a hire agreement. It was unhappy to be told that the terminal would only remain 
Ts while it was a customer of RMS. 
RMS said it hadnt made a mistake. It couldnt see any documentation to confirm that T had 
been told that the terminal would remain its property at the end of the agreement. It was up 
to T to read the documentation before signing. The card terminal was provided on a 
gratuitous hire basis and the product ownership remained with RMS. T could cancel the 
agreement with 30 days notice provided it returned the terminal. But it wouldnt receive the 
upfront fee back.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that RMS accepted 
that there had been some misinformation about the upfront fees and T had been told that 
this would cover three years of use. And it had apologised for this as the upfront fee would 
cover the period it remained a customer of RMS. An email from RMS on 13 April 2021 had 
dealt with this issue and had confirmed that the Pay Up Front is your ownership of the card 
machine with no terminal rental as long as you remain a customer of Retail Merchant 
Services. While that could have been clearer the signed agreement set out the full terms.
T didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 June 2022. I set out below what I said.
T is a business and I said I would expect it to take reasonable care when entering into 
commitments. Ordinarily I would take a signed agreement as the strongest evidence of what 
had been agreed. Thats because I clearly wasnt present during any sales discussion and 
cant know exactly what was said. 
Here in thinking about what is reasonable I considered the position is different. The person 
responding to T in the email of 13 April 2021 referred to by our investigator above I 
understood was one of the sales representatives that visited T. He starts that email by 
apologising for the confusion about information T had been given the day before about the 
agreement by its customer services team. And he makes the statement quoted above which 
is still not correct. As has been set out the agreement states that T never owned the 
equipment, even during the period of the agreement.
I saw the potential for and actual accepted confusion for T in this case caused by RMS. And 
so I found it most likely that when asked questions in the sales meeting about the agreement 
the same sales representative either gave T the impression it would own the card terminal 
and/ or didnt clarify the terms of the agreement in response to questions. So, I accepted Ts 
account of that meeting. While its right that T could have read the agreement in detail to see 
what was involved I still thought it was entitled to rely on what the sales representative as the 
expert here said. I found it most likely that T wouldnt have entered into the agreement had it 
been given clear, correct and unambiguous answers about the ownership of the terminal.
T paid what was documented as a membership fee of £419.94. The position was that this 
was charged irrespective of how long the agreement ran on for. And there was effectively a 
zero (gratuitous) hire fee for the terminal. T paid for any transactions that were processed in 
the normal way. 
I found that T should fairly be refunded the membership fee if it cancels the agreement and 
returns the terminal within a month of accepting my decision. I didnt agree that it should be 
given or keep the terminal which would be clearly outside the agreement terms and never 
what RMS intended. There should be no other cancellation costs. The past processing and 
any other fees represented services provided to T and so will fairly stand. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RMS didnt make any comments about my provisional decision.
T made some comments through its representative. It said that from the outset it wasnt 
interested in renting a terminal and was only interested in buying a terminal. T maintained 
that it was told that it could buy the terminal. And because of this T didnt think that there was 
a contract for it to review and sign as there was no agreement. It wasnt given any 
opportunity to read anything and its signature was copied across from the tablet device to 
the documents.
Having said that T was prepared to accept the resolution especially as it would be no better 
off with this arrangement. The principle here was very important. It was concerned it might 
not be available to deal with the final decision due to planned travel.
I have taken account of what T said and listened to the call the representative had with our 
investigator about my provisional decision. I fully understand its position. And for the reasons 
Ive already given I still think that it should be able to cancel the contract and receive the fee 
back. Im not in a position to resolve any further what specifically was said in the sales 
meeting as I explained above.
Ive taken into account what T said about its availability at the time of that call. My 
understanding is that it will now be able to deal with this. If it accepts my decision it will need 
to take the steps given below to receive the refund.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Retail Merchant Services Limited to 
refund the fee of £419.94 if T cancels the agreement and returns the terminal within a month 
of it accepting my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman