DRN-3167956
The complaint
Mrs B had complained on behalf of a company, B, that Towergate Underwriting Group 
Limited (Towergate) mis-sold a commercial property insurance policy.
For ease, I will refer to Mrs B only.
What happened
Mrs B contacted her insurer when there was an escape of water at a property she owned. 
The insurer declined the claim because it said the water had been switched on, the property 
hadnt been visited weekly and only restricted cover was in place which didnt include 
escapes of water.
Mrs B complained to Towergate, her broker, and said it hadnt highlighted key conditions in 
the policy terms and conditions, so she didnt know that they existed. Mrs B said her claim 
had been declined due to Towergates negligence. When Towergate replied, it said that Mrs 
Bs insurer had advised her that the claim had been declined because she hadnt complied 
with certain conditions in the policy. The insurer had also said that the cover was restricted 
to Fire, Lightning, Explosion and Aircraft impact (FLEA). Towergate said it had previously 
highlighted this restriction to Mrs B a number of times. The renewal documents had also 
explained this restriction.
So, Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the policy wording had explained the cover restrictions while the property was unoccupied. 
She said although the unoccupancy clause might have been breached, the policy wouldnt 
have covered a claim for an escape of water anyway while only FLEA cover was in place.
As Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
As part of considering this complaint, I have only considered Towergates actions. I havent 
looked at the actions of the insurer in declining the claim.
My understanding is that when the insurer declined Mrs Bs claim, it said Mrs B hadnt 
complied with the unoccupancy conditions of visiting the property weekly or of turning off the 
water and that there was only FLEA cover in place. As Mrs B only had FLEA cover, this 
didnt cover a claim was for an escape of water. So, Im mindful that even if Mrs B had, for 
example, visited the property weekly, her claim still wouldnt have been covered. It is also 
common for insurers to apply exclusions when a property is unoccupied, as this can present 
an increased risk. Im also aware that it isnt in dispute that the property was unoccupied, as 
Mrs B had told Towergate this was the case when the tenants left. 
Ive looked at whether the relevant terms and conditions were provided to Mrs B and what 
these said. Im aware that when Mrs B told Towergate the property was unoccupied that 
Towergate told her a number of times only FLEA cover was in place. This was during the 
previous insurance period. So, Ive also looked at what Mrs B was sent when the policy was 
due for renewal.
The Quote Invite listed the property as unoccupied. The Policy Summary had a section 
headed Significant or Unusual Exclusions and Limitations. This said:
Special terms apply to unoccupied buildings in excess of 30 days
Applies to: Buildings, Rental Income & Public Liability
The policy booklet explained the terms that applied when a property was unoccupied 
including that the cover was restricted to FLEA, the buildings needed to be inspected at least 
once a week and the water, gas and electricity needed to be switched off.
A couple of months after the policy renewed, Mrs B asked Towergate to send a copy of the 
policy summary of cover, the summary schedule or the full documents in order to complete 
her records. Towergate replied and sent the renewal pack and the policy summary. The 
policy summary listed the Significant or Unusual Exclusions and Limitations, as described 
above, including about unoccupied properties.
So, based on what Ive seen, Towergate told Mrs B that she would have a reduced level of 
cover while the property was empty. Towergate also provided Mrs B with the relevant 
documents and these explained the terms and conditions that applied when a property was 
unoccupied, which included each of the terms the insurer referred to when it declined the 
claim. So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Towergate 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman