DRN-4400323
The complaint
Mr B complains that his bank, Barclays Bank UK PLC, failed to remove its mortgage charge 
on some land he owned despite promising to do so when the mortgage was repaid. He said 
he was passed around several different departments of the bank and received poor service.
What happened
I set out the background to Mr Bs complaint in my provisional decision, and here. 
Mr B redeemed his mortgage in September 2020, but found that Barclays hadnt removed 
the charge. Barclays thought that Mr Bs land ownership wasnt correctly recorded at the 
Land Registry. Mr B contacted Barclays on many occasions to get this resolved and was 
incorrectly informed that the charge was being released, and he complained to Barclays. 
Barclays looked closer and found a business mortgage charge which it said its business 
team needed to release. It explained to Mr B that a charge isnt automatically released when 
a debt is repaid, this has to be requested by the customer. 
Barclays has said that as this was a business lending charge, if the business was a limited 
company, there would be no impact on the personal credit files of any persons involved with 
the company. Barclays final response to Mr Bs complaint in October 2021 upheld it 
concerning the time taken to resolve the complaint and not clearly explaining the process. It 
paid Mr B £150 compensation by way of apology. 
In May 2022 Barclays said it had applied for release, but this hadnt been completed by the 
Land Registry and Mr B should contact the Land Registry to see what it requires. Mr B 
wasnt satisfied and referred his complaint to us in September 2022. He said Barclays 
failure to act on its promise to remove the charge cost us our relationship for say three 
years. He said Barclays made a mistake on his deeds which led to conditions placed on his 
bank account which spoilt his ability to obtain credit. 
Our investigator said that matters dealt with in Barclays final response of 22 October 2021 
were outside the time limit set by the rules. But he did look at Mr Bs complaint about the 
impact of Barclays delay in removing the charge as Barclays hadnt considered this. The 
investigator reminded Mr B of his request to send information to demonstrate that hed been 
caused loss, but the investigator said he hadnt received anything.
The investigator said the charge had now been removed. He said he hadnt been provided 
with any information about the business to which the charge related or the people involved 
with it, nor anything to demonstrate an impact on Mr Bs credit file from the charge being in 
place for longer, and he couldnt determine any loss.
Mr B said there was a lack of depth to our investigation and his complaint has been referred 
to me as an ombudsman to consider. In September 2023, I issued a provisional decision for 
this complaint and explained why I was not minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint as follows; - 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
From what Mr B has said I understand the impact of the events he has described to be that 
lending was denied to him because of an adverse credit record relating to the mortgage 
charge that Barclays failed to release and conditions were placed on his account. He said he 
had to apply for expensive short-term credit to meet building and other costs and this cost 
him up to £10,000. He said that although Barclays said it wants to settle his complaint, its 
compensation hasnt come close to his losses or the inconvenience he has been put to.
I agree with the investigator and Barclays that issues concerned with this complaint were 
referred to our service outside of the six-month time limit permitted by the rules for this. 
However, Mr B complained subsequently about the impact of the delay upon him, and this is 
an issue referred in time and which I can consider. 
I asked Barclays for more information about Mr Bs complaint. Barclays said it identified two 
charges on the property, which included the property and adjacent land. When the mortgage 
completed the charge was released in September 2020, but the second charge related to a 
business and wasnt released. Mr B raised this to Barclays via his solicitor in April 2021, but 
his request came to its mortgage team and the business charge wasnt located. Barclays 
said this wasnt explained clearly to Mr B until its letter of October 2021. And it advised Mr B 
that its business team would need to speak with him to fix this issue, but they couldnt reach 
him, and so this wasnt resolved until April 2022 when his solicitor made contact again. 
 
Mr B described the effects of this issue as Barclays placing conditions on his account which 
restricted payments he tried to make, and that Barclays spoilt his ability to obtain credit. 
Barclays is unsure what Mr B means when saying his payments were restricted on the 
account, or what account he was looking to borrow from. Barclays said borrowing by Mr B 
would have been reported to credit reference agencies in the normal way, alongside 
information about his other accounts. Barclays said it hadnt restricted Mr Bs access to 
credit. It said he took out a loan in 2019 but there are no active accounts with access to 
credit showing on Mr Bs profile.
Regarding the time taken, Barclays said it attempted to remove the mortgage charges as 
quickly as possible, but delays ensued from Mr B not contacting its business team regarding 
the business charge and its difficulty in contacting him. Barclays said the charge could have 
been released sooner if there had been clearer communication from both sides. It said the 
last note on Mr Bs account in April 2022, advised that the charge had been found and would 
be released within three working days, but that Barclays would need to speak to Mr B. There 
are no further updates following this note. 
Im pleased that Barclays has explained and apologised to Mr B for its delay in removing the 
charge after it said this would happen. I think the problem was that when the mortgage 
concluded, Mr B overlooked that he had business charge on the property as well as a 
residential mortgage. And Barclays hadnt appreciated this either and so belatedly referred 
this to its business team to effect release. Ideally Mr B would have raised his mortgage issue 
with Barclays business team as they were the owners of the business charge. Mr B didnt do 
that and was difficult to reach by phone, however I think Barclays ought to have checked 
across its departments for evidence of all charges relating to his property. From what Ive 
seen, Barclays has since cancelled the mortgage charge and removed it from its records. 
Barclays has said that as the mortgage charge complained of related to a business lending 
charge, if the business was a limited company, there would be no impact on the personal 
credit files of any persons involved with the company. This means there shouldnt have been 
a personal impact from the delayed removal of the charge on Mr B. Barclays says the theres 
no adverse credit information on Mr Bs credit file. 
However, Mr B has said he owes over £10,000 for the higher cost credit he had to get when 
Barclays took two years to realise the mistake it made on his deeds, and this caused him stress. The investigator requested Mr B provide a copy of his credit file and details of any 
declined credit applications, but Mr B hasnt provided any of the information requested and 
so we havent seen any evidence to support any losses. In order to consider the complaint 
further I need Mr B to provide this information and details of the conditions he says were 
placed on his account by Barclays which restricted payments hes tried to make. And more 
information about the mistake he says Barclays made on his resolve account.
It would also help if Barclays could explain why it needed to speak to Mr B once his solicitor 
had made requested the removal of the business charge. As Barclays knew Mr B wanted the 
second charge removed, further delay seemed inevitable. And say what, if any, was the 
issue concerning the Land Registry to which it referred in its letter to Mr B of May 2022. It 
would help if Barclays could also say if it limited the amount of borrowing available to Mr B 
during this period.  
I was sorry to learn of the disturbance caused to Mr Bs life from the delay in Barclays 
removing the charge but Its not clear to me from Mr Bs letters what losses Barclays have 
caused him and so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays to pay 
recompense. I currently think Barclays apology and payment of £150 compensation is about 
right for the impact of its delayed and unclear response to Mr Bs enquiries. And it follows 
that I dont require Barclays to take any further action in relation to Mr Bs complaint.  
My provisional decision
Subject to any further information that I receive, I currently intend to decide that the 
complaint is not upheld. 
The parties responses to the provisional decision 
Mr B responded to say that he has heard from us that the Land Registry error has been dealt 
with, but he would like to know how. He said Barclays had also told him that he had made a 
mistake with the loan he took out in that he had not read the conditions. Mr B agreed with 
this but said he hadnt made the loan the subject of a complaint. He said his complaint (only 
now identified) is about the time taken by Barclays to reach a conclusion.
Mr B attached letters he and Barclays had sent each other over the last few years including 
Barclays letter of 9 August 2023 in which it says the loan Mr B has complained about was 
explained at the time and he hadnt appreciated the terms. 
In response to the provisional decision and the questions I raised therein Barclays confirmed 
that the charge at the Land Registry on Mr Bs property had been released in May 2022 and 
its contact with him about this subsequently was for him to check the charge had been 
released if he wished. Barclays said Mr B had raised the issue about not having lending 
limits available when he wanted to apply for borrowing. Barclays said that as no application 
was completed, it cant say why they werent available. 
Barclays explained that lending limits use information from credit reference agencies and 
information it holds, and many reasons could prevent limits from being available to a 
customer. It said there are still no limits for Mr B which means he can apply for lending with 
Barclays, but there are no pre-approved loans or overdrafts available to him. Barclays said 
that any lending previously available to Mr B would have remained in place and there were 
no restrictions placed on his accounts during the period related to his complaint.
Barclays said it couldnt find a specific reason why Mr B was required to speak to its 
business team when the mortgage ended. Although, Barclays thought it was likely that the purpose of the call was to confirm information with the customer and gather any additional 
information regarding the business that may be required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is correct to say that the present complaint does not concern a loan he took out with 
Barclays, it concerns Barclays failure, or delay in removing its mortgage charge on some 
land he owned despite promising to do so when the mortgage was repaid. Mr B says that the 
impact of this was that lending was denied to him because of an adverse credit record 
relating to the mortgage charge that Barclays failed to release, and that conditions were 
placed on his account.
Having reviewed all of the information about this complaint again and the responses to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that I dont have sufficient evidence in order to 
uphold the complaint. I will explain my reasons.
Mr B has referred to Barclays letter in which it states that his issue with the Land Registry 
has been resolved. So far as Im aware, the charge at the Land Registry on Mr Bs property 
was released in May 2022 and Barclays subsequent contact with him about this was for him 
to check this with the Land Registry if he wished. Im not aware of any outstanding issue with 
Mr Bs entries at the Land Registry. Mr B can contact the Land Registry if he wants to check. 
I thought again about delays in Barclays handling of the charge on Mr Bs property. Barclays 
said it couldnt find a specific reason why Mr B was required to speak to its business team 
when the mortgage ended, but thought it likely that a call would confirm information with Mr 
B and gather any additional information required. I cant be sure this step was needed, but 
the delay from this only lasted from April to May 2022 when the charge was released. 
As to more significant delays, Barclays appears to have attempted to remove the mortgage 
charges as quickly as possible, but said that lack of contact with Mr B slowed things down. I 
agree with Barclays comment that the charge could have been released sooner if there had 
been clearer communication from both sides. I remain of the view that communications were 
affected by Mr B overlooking that he had business charge on the property as well as a 
residential mortgage, and Barclays not appreciating this either, and so it made a belated 
referral of the charge to its business team.
Barclays apologised to Mr B and paid him £150 compensation for the impact of its delayed 
and unclear response to Mr Bs enquiries. Mr B said the impact of this was that lending was 
denied to him because of an adverse credit record relating to the mortgage charge that 
Barclays failed to release and conditions were placed on his account. He said he had to 
apply for expensive short-term credit to meet building and other costs and this cost him up to 
£10,000.
Barclays said Mr B had raised the issue about not having lending limits available when he 
wanted to apply for borrowing. Barclays said that as no application was completed, it cant 
say why they werent available. 
Barclays explained that lending limits use information from credit reference agencies and 
information it holds, and many reasons could prevent limits from being available to a 
customer. It said there are still no limits for Mr B which means he can apply for lending with 
Barclays, but there are no pre-approved loans or overdrafts available to him. Barclays said that any lending previously available to Mr B would have remained in place and there were 
no restrictions placed on his accounts during the period related to his complaint.
From what Barclays has said and the lack of any adverse credit information about Mr B its 
not possible to say that he has been denied or restricted in his borrowing from Barclays. 
Barclays has said that the business charge didnt affect Mr Bs scope for borrowing from it 
and so I havent found any adverse impact on him from the way his account has been 
handled. 
The investigator and I have tried to find information that would provide insight into Mr Bs 
complaint. However, this complaint still lacks the detail and supporting evidence to enable a 
fuller investigation to be carried out. If Mr B has retained a professional adviser he may wish 
to ask them to contact Barclays further about the complaint issues.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and in my provisional decision it is my final decision that 
that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman