DRN-3652824
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss H borrowed £5,000 from Madison in June 2021. The loan was due to be repaid in 36
monthly instalments of about £226. The total amount repayable was around £8,154.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought that Madison had been
wrong to provide Miss H with the loan.
Madison disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
As the complaint had not been settled, it was passed to an ombudsman to resolve.
Provisional findings
An ombudsman issued a provisional decision to Miss H and to Madison on 28 May 2022. 
Ive summarised her findings:
Although Madison asked Miss H for information about her income and expenditure, 
and gathered some information from a credit report, our ombudsman did not think the 
checks were proportionate because:
oMiss H was applying to Madison for a costly loan, repayable over an 
extended three-year period;
oMadison would have been aware that she had previously had difficulties 
repaying credit;
oMiss H doesnt appear to have been asked to supply independent evidence of 
her income;
However, even if Madison had carried out more in-depth checks at the time, such as 
requesting bank statements, it was not clear whether the lender would have 
uncovered anything that would have shown that Miss H might have difficulty repaying 
her loan:
oMiss H was asked to provide her bank statements, but she said she was 
unable to do so;
oOur ombudsman thought about the proportion of income that Miss H was 
spending on repaying credit, but it seemed from her application that she was 
intending to consolidate some of her debts with Madisons loan;
Overall, our ombudsman didnt see enough information for her to conclude that she 
thought Madison ought simply to have declined the loan application, based on the 
information it had gathered.
So our ombudsman couldnt fairly say that she thought Madison lent to Miss H irresponsibly 
or unfairly.
Madison responded to accept the provisional decision.
Miss H did not accept the provisional decision and has now provided bank statements to 
support her position.
I then issued a further provisional decision to Miss H and to Madison on 12 July 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
I reviewed the additional information provided by Miss H and I was satisfied that 
proportionate checks would have indicated to Madison that the lending was 
irresponsible because:
oIn the lead up to the loan, Miss H was showing clear indications that she had 
become, or was becoming, addicted to gambling;
oIn May 2021, for example, Miss H spent almost £1,400 on gambling 
transactions  compared with an employment income of roughly £800 per 
month.
So my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint.
Miss H responded to accept my provisional decision.
Madison did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss H accepted my provisional decision and neither party provided any additional 
information, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118118 
Money) should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss H received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss H made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Miss H having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Madison should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss H. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the 
loan up to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. Madison should 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman