DRN-4427943
The complaint
J, a limited company, says The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited
(NFU) turned down a claim it made on its business insurance policy. J complains thats
because the policy NFU sold it wasnt suitable for its needs.
What happened
In 2022 a customer of Js said a product it sold hadnt performed as expected. And it had
suffered a loss as a result. J accepted this was because had it supplied the wrong type of
product. It claimed on its policy with NFU for the value of the claim the customer had made
against it. NFU said the product liability section of the policy didnt cover financial loss (it
could cover damage to material property but that wasnt the case for this claim).
J said NFU hadnt met its needs or provided it with clear information about what the policy
covered when the policy was sold and renewed. NFU accepted the policy it advised J to take
out wasnt the most suitable for it. However, the correct policy wouldnt have covered the
claim J subsequently made and it didnt have a policy which would have done so. So it didnt
think J had lost out as a result of its error. However, it accepted it had taken too long to
investigate and respond to Js concerns and offered to pay £250 in recognition of the
inconvenience this caused.
During our investigation J provided a policy it said would have covered the claim it made. In
his most recent view our investigator explained that (based on information supplied by Js
broker) he was satisfied it would have done. And he thought if properly advised J would have
taken it out. So J would have been covered for the claim it subsequently made.
He said NFU should reimburse J the amount it paid to resolve the claim against it (plus
interest) less the difference in premium between the policy it did have and the one it should
have had. He also said it should pay £250 for the inconvenience J had been caused in
dealing with these matters
NFU didnt agree. It didnt think the evidence showed J would have been able to obtain
alternative cover; the quotation didnt take into account an assessment of the actual risk and
there remained ambiguity as to whether the terms would in fact have covered the claim J
made.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
I dont think its in dispute Js policy with NFU didnt cover the claim it made in July 2022. The
complaint J has made is about what happened when the policy was sold and renewed. So
Ive considered whether NFU did what it should when that happened and, if it didnt, whether
J lost out a result.
I can see this was an advised sale. For an advised sale the relevant rules say NFU is
required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. To do so the rules
require it to establish a customers demands and needs using information readily available
and by obtaining further relevant information from a customer.
I think its accepted NFU didnt do what it should here. It doesnt appear to have fully
understand the nature of Js business and its insurance needs when the policy was set up.
And that led to it recommending an office policy rather than a more appropriate wholesaler's
policy. I dont think the policy it recommended was one J couldnt benefit from; the cover
included contents insurance, employers liability cover and public and product liability cover.
But it wasnt the most suitable policy NFU could have recommended and so there has been
a failing here.
Ive gone on to think about whether J has lost out as a result. And in particular whether, but
for the failing by NFU, it would have had cover in place for the claim it subsequently made.
NFU says even if had recommended the correct policy to J that wouldnt have provided
cover for that claim. And it didnt have a policy available that would have done so. I havent
seen anything to show thats incorrect.
However, the information Js now provided does suggest a policy is available from another
insurer which might have provided cover for the claim it made. NFU has queried whether it
would have done and whether an insurer would actually have offered J that cover. But I dont
think thats an issue I need to determine in relation to this complaint. Thats because even if I
accept J could have obtained a policy with cover for the claim it subsequently made, Im not
satisfied thats something it would have done if properly advised by NFU. I say that because
when J took out cover with NFU in 2016 there was discussion over whether it wanted cover
for financial loss and J decided against taking this out. A letter summarising the cover that
had been arranged said:
Regarding the cover that is provided under Public and Product Liability, as mentioned
above this only applies in respect of amounts which you become legally liable to pay to
members of the public following them suffering accidental injury/illness or loss of/damage to
their property as a result of you operating the business and selling your products.
Specifically excluded from this cover is financial loss, which your customer may incur
following you either; selling him the incorrect [product]; or the [product] failing to germinate;
or your customer being sent the incorrect product. We can arrange Financial Loss insurance,
and I will forward details of this in due course. We discussed this matter during our
conversation on 20 July, and you were happy with there being no Financial Loss insurance
operating at the current time.
I recognise the overall advice given to J at that time wasnt correct because NFU didnt
recommend the most suitable policy. But it nevertheless made clear to J the policy it had
recommended didnt offer financial loss cover. And J would need to take out separate cover
if it wanted that. I appreciate the policy NFU suggested wouldnt in fact have covered the
claim J subsequently made. But I think the key issue here is that, having been told it didnt
have cover for financial loss, J didnt take out a policy which would cover that.
Ive seen nothing to show it would have made a different decision if the correct policy had
been recommended to it by NFU. The advice in relation to cover for financial loss would
have been the same; the policy didnt cover this. I think its most likely that J would therefore
have made the same choice and decided against taking this cover.
I think thats supported by the fact J contacted NFU in 2019 because a customer had
indicated they were unhappy with a product supplied by J which hadnt performed as it
should. J was concerned the customer might take action against it for the loss it had suffered
of around £5,000. NFUs notes say it advised J to speak to the provider of its legal expenses
insurance policy but also explained the insurance J held with it wouldnt cover a loss of this
type. NFU offered to go through Js insurance in more detail but that offer wasnt taken up.
That indicates to me J was aware its insurance didnt cover losses of this nature and was
happy with the cover it had in place.J says NFU should have carried out more recent reviews of the cover it had in place which
would have identified the issue with policy coverage. NFU has said Js policy fell outside of
its review framework meaning there was no need for an annual review. However, I can see
the adviser J was dealing with accepted he should nevertheless have carried out a review
and apologised for not doing so.
But even if a review had been carried out, I dont see that would have changed things. As
Ive already explained I think J would have been clear its policy didnt cover financial loss to
a customer based on the information provided in 2016 and again in 2019. And the renewal
documentation that J was sent in 2021 (the renewal prior to the July 2022 claim being made)
said:
Please read the enclosed documents thoroughly and make sure the cover still meets your
needs. For your insurance to remain valid you must tell us about any changes in your
circumstances. You'll find guidance under Changes to tell us about. If you're not sure
whether your change is relevant, please tell us anyway
J didnt tell NFU know about any changes to its circumstances or needs. And while I
appreciate it has now sought to take out cover that could cover a future claim thats following
the claim made against it in July 2022. That isnt something it would have been aware of at
the point a review would have taken place. So even if such a review had happened, I dont
think it would have led J to make different decisions about its insurance requirements. Given
all that I dont think NFU does need to reimburse the amount J paid to its customer because
I dont think that loss results from what NFU got wrong.
But if Im wrong about that (which I dont think I am) I still dont think NFU would need to do
anything further in relation to this. Even if I was satisfied J would have taken out a policy that
would have covered the claim it subsequently made if correctly advised in 2016, it would still
have needed to pay the premiums for that. So any amount NFU was required to pay in
recognition of a financial loss to J would need to be offset against those premiums.
When J contacted NFU to make its claim it said the potential loss to its customer was around
£8,000. The quoted cost of the policy its now found is £4.760. If J had taken out that cover
in 2016 it would therefore have paid a total of around £28,500 if the premium had been at
that level in 2016 and subsequent years.
I appreciate premiums might have been lower in earlier years but even if that is the case its
likely the total would still have been significantly more than any loss J suffered as a result of
the claim against it (based on the information it gave to NFU about this). So there wouldnt
be any financial loss payment NFU would now need to make even if it could be shown that,
but for its failing, J would have had a policy in place that would have covered the claim
against it.
However, I do agree J has been caused inconvenience by what NFU got wrong. It took NFU
longer than it should both to investigate the circumstances of what happened and to respond
to the complaint J had made. NFU has offered to pay £250 in recognition of that but I think
Js directors have had to put a reasonable amount of time into resolving this matter some of
which would have been avoided without the identified failings by NFU. I think a total of £500
compensation would better reflect the inconvenience J was caused by what NFU got wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision
NFU said it didnt have any further comments to make. J didnt respond. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided any further comments, I dont have any reason to alter the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited will need to pay J £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman