DRN-2364704
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D complains that Invesco Fund Managers Limited unnecessarily required 
Mr D, the executor of the estate, to provide information that wasnt necessary for it to act on 
his instructions.
What happened
Mrs D died on 2 March 2019 and under her Will she appointed Mr D as her sole executor 
and beneficiary. Mr D obtained a Grant of Probate (GOP) on 26 June 2019 and he wrote to 
Invesco on 4 September 2019 with the GOP.
Invesco responded by letter dated 10 September 2019 returning the GOP and stating it had 
taken copies and saying it would write if it needed anything further. It then wrote to Mr D on 
13 September 2019 stating that it was unable to update its records as the address provided 
for Mrs D didnt match its records. It asked for a history of addresses and said that because 
it couldnt proceed it was returning the GOP.
There were then several telephone conversations between Mr D and Invesco on 17 
September 2019 which ended with Invesco agreeing to deal with Mr D without any further 
information being provided - beyond the information Invesco already had which included a 
previous letter Mr D had sent in May 2017 saying Mrs D was moving into long-term 
residential care.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which, in summary, I made the following 
findings:
It is only if the estate has suffered a loss that I can award anything, Mr D isnt entitled 
to any award personally.
It wasnt unreasonable for Invesco to require Mr D to provide further information in 
addition to the GOP where the information it holds doesnt match the information in 
the GOP.
Mr D had written to Invesco in 2017 about having been appointed as Mrs Ds 
attorney under a Power of Attorney but hadnt provided a copy of the Power to 
Invesco when it requested this.
As matters stood in 2019 Mrs Ds last known address as far as Invescos records 
showed was her address before she went into long-term residential care.
Im satisfied that there was a mismatch between the information it had and the 
information in the GOP.
Invesco didnt suddenly and mysteriously abandon its usual procedure as suggested 
by Mr D.
The letter Invesco had received from Mr D in 2017  which wouldnt have been seen 
initially when Invesco received the GOP in 2019 - had referred to Mrs D going into 
long-term residential care and the address in the GOP was that of a care home.
It is reasonably clear that Invesco chose to proceed without requiring anything further 
from Mr D because it took the view it could proceed with the information it already 
held which included the 2017 letter.
Invesco acted reasonably in deciding not to continue to ask for any further 
information in the circumstances but that doesnt mean it did anything wrong by 
asking for this in the first place.
Even if I had found Invesco shouldnt have asked for further information I am not 
satisfied that the estate suffered a loss.
An executor isnt generally entitled to charge an estate for time spent administering 
the estate unless appointed as a professional executor.
The term professional executor is commonly used to describe someone with 
expertise in the administration of estates such as a solicitor or probate expert 
appointed to administer an estate, on the basis they will charge for this.
There is no evidence that shows Mr D being was appointed as a professional 
executor, such as a charging a clause in the Will.
It would be unusual for someone appointed as the sole executor of a Will of which 
they were the sole primary beneficiary to charge for administering the estate.
Such an arrangement wouldnt make much sense as it would mean Mr D paying 
himself as a professional executor from money he was already entitled to.
Mr D has said there is another beneficiary, but she could only benefit if he died 
before Mrs D and he obviously wouldnt then be the executor.
I dont think Mr D as executor and appointing himself in a professional capacity is a 
credible arrangement either.
Even if I thought the estate had suffered a loss, Im not satisfied any fees paid to Mr 
D would have been reasonably incurred as I dont think professional help was 
required to deal with Invescos request for further information.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing any further information they wanted me to 
consider. Mr D responded at some length but provided no new evidence or information. His 
response criticised the approach to the complaint and the layout of my provisional decision 
which isnt something I need to make findings on when making my decision. I set out those 
points which Mr D did make which and on which I think are appropriate for me to comment. 
These were: 
In the main the points he has made are set out by me but nowhere is the response 
from Invesco set out and I appear to have taken the correspondence with Invesco at 
face value and not sought to challenge its conduct.
He doesnt understand my reference to certain points he made being more properly 
dealt with outside the complaint.
I need to decide if Invesco acted fairly and if they did, as I appear to have found, that 
is the end of the matter. It is only if they acted unfairly that I need to consider is any 
loss has been suffered.
The facts speak for themselves, Invesco knew of the change in his mothers 
circumstances and had always done so.
I have seriously mis-directed myself when I take into account and make findings on 
Invescos internal procedures and level of training and authority given to staff. It 
cannot reasonably be his problem that it required senior management to instruct 
someone junior to act as they should have done in the first place.
If this doesnt amount to an admission by Invesco that he was right from the outset it 
is difficult to see what does. That I have chosen not to treat it as an admission is 
perverse and evidence of partiality.
If Invesco didnt agree that he was right, why did they suddenly get on with what he 
asked them to do in the first place without question? - on any view that is unarguable 
and conclusive.
I say that I dont think Invesco did anything wrong, but he isnt interested in my 
thoughts and what I have said is contrary to the admission by Invesco and thus 
perverse.I cannot conflate the entirely separate issues of fault and compensation, as I have 
done. I must make an unreserved decision on fault on a balance of probabilities and 
stand by it and not attempt to pass the blame, if I am wrong, onto that very standard 
of proof and seek a further alibi for refusing to uphold the complaint by speculating 
upon consequential loss.
I do not challenge anywhere that the conduct of Invesco didnt actually obstruct him 
in his duty and waste his time and so, some compensation must be payable to him or 
the estate.
I admit this very point because I allow once again that I may be wrong about the 
estate not having suffered a loss.
No reasonable arbiter, properly directing himself upon the necessary criteria and the 
standard of proof required and applying those to the admitted facts, could possibly 
reach the decision not to uphold the complaint given, in particular, the express or 
implied admission by Invesco that their refusal to accept the authority of the GOP 
was incorrect. 
My decision is thus perverse and my insistence on considering the substantive 
complaint and the financial claim, regardless of whether or not the complaint be 
upheld, is conclusive evidence of my partiality and intention from the outset to defeat 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mr D has said in response to my provisional decision I am still 
satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that Invesco did nothing wrong.
Mr D has said he doesnt understand why certain points would be better dealt with outside 
the complaint. As I referred to in my provisional decision, Mr D has made points about the 
way we have considered the complaint - as he has also reiterated in response to my 
provisional decision. These arent points I need to make findings on when deciding if Invesco 
did anything wrong. Therefore, I havent set these out and make no comment on them.
I am sorry that Mr D feels that by making findings on both the substantive issue as to 
whether Invesco had done something wrong, and whether any loss has been suffered, I 
have somehow shown I havent been impartial. However, contrary to Mr Ds opinion, I can 
assure him I have considered this complaint impartially having reviewed all the evidence 
available to me.
I thought it important to make findings on whether a loss had been suffered by the estate. 
This is because Mr D provided detailed reasons why he thought a loss had been suffered 
which I wanted to address, regardless of my finding that Invesco had done nothing wrong.
It is also the case that in issuing a provisional decision it was possible that my finding that 
Invesco had done nothing wrong could change if further information or evidence was 
subsequently provided. If that had happened and I had made no findings on whether a loss 
had been suffered I would have needed to provide a further provisional decision, which 
would have caused unnecessary delay.
Mr D has said that I have set out, in the most part, what he had said but not Invescos 
response. However, I did refer to Invescos position, in the background to my provisional 
decision. Its position is quite simple in that it followed its normal process when the 
information in the GOP regarding Mrs Ds address didnt match the information it had on its systems. It then made an exception after taking account of the letter Mr D sent in May 2017. 
I didnt consider I needed further information from Invesco about this, as the evidence I 
already had, including the telephone call between Mr D and the manager on 17 September 
2019, supported what it said.
Mr D has referred to there being an admission by Invesco that it shouldnt have asked him 
for further information because it later agreed to proceed without that information based only 
on the GOP he had provided. I can see no basis for finding that Invesco admitted it had done 
something wrong simply because it decided it could go ahead just with the GOP.  
I set out in my provisional decision findings as to why Invesco had agreed to proceed without 
insisting Mr D provide the address history it had initially requested. I have nothing further to 
add to what I have already said about Invescos reasons for going ahead without the further 
information. Im satisfied that it acted reasonably both in asking for further information initially 
and then deciding, after considering the letter from May 2017 along with the information in 
the GOP, that it could proceed without this further information.
Mr D has said that Invesco always knew of his mothers change in circumstances. However, 
the letter of May 2017 only made reference to Mrs D moving into long-term residential care 
and didnt say when or where or provide a new address for her. The only address Invesco 
had for Mrs D when it received the GOP therefore, was Mrs Ds address before she went 
into residential care. 
Although the May 2017 letter didnt provide the residential care home address, when it and 
the GOP are considered together the overall information is consistent, in that the letter 
stated Mrs D was moving into residential care and the GOP showed her address as that of a 
residential care home. Therefore, Im satisfied this explains why Invesco was willing to 
proceed without insisting that Mr D provide the further information it asked for initially.
Invesco said the letter isnt something that wouldve been seen when the GOP was received. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Invesco to rely on the current information on its systems 
and not check back through old correspondence on first receiving the GOP. In this case, 
when Mr D took issue with it not accepting the GOP it then had reason to look to see if it had 
any additional information that would allow it to proceed without requiring Mr D to provide an 
address history. Invesco made a reasonable and pragmatic decision not to follow its normal 
process and insist on an address history after taking account of the information in the May 
2017 letter. In my view this is not the same as Invesco deciding that it should have 
proceeded at the outset with just the GOP. 
Mr D has made the point that having decided that Invesco did nothing wrong I dont then 
need to consider if the estate has suffered a loss. I have explained why I made findings on 
this in my provisional decision. I need say no more about this given I have found that 
Invesco did nothing wrong and this is my final decision. But I stand by the findings in my 
provisional decision that the estate didnt suffer any loss in any event, and Mr D has no claim 
personally as his role is only as the representative of the estate.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Philip GibbonsOmbudsman