DRN-4025321
The complaint
The estate of Ms H complains about the way accounts were administered by National 
Westminster Bank Plc. 
What happened
In December 2012 Ms H passed away. At the time of her death, a third party held Power of 
Attorney to act on her behalf. The executor of Ms Hs estate has explained that a few days 
after his mother passed away, the third party withdrew £5,000 from the current account. 
Around the same time Mr H, the executor, notified NatWest of his mothers death. Mr H has 
told us he visited a local branch a short time later and raised concerns that funds had been 
fraudulently withdrawn from his late mothers account following her death. 
The estate of Ms H was disputed between Mr H and the third party and a legal caveat was 
registered to restrict any use of the funds in the account. But in 2015 the third party was able 
to arrange for care home fees that they said remained outstanding to be paid. In April 2016, 
following receipt of solicitors correspondence and a court order, NatWest made a payment 
to cover the remaining care home fees. Mr H has explained there was a dispute with the 
care home concerning the amounts owed so was unhappy that funds had been released 
from the estate whilst a caveat was in place. 
At the time of Ms Hs death, funds were held in interest bearing savings accounts. When 
those accounts matured, the funds were placed in a non interest bearing holding account 
while NatWest waited for the Grant of Probate to be supplied. 
Last year, the courts issued the Grant of Probate naming Mr H and a solicitor as executors 
of the late Ms Hs estate. In March 2022 Mr H complained about difficulties dealing with 
NatWest on the estate of Ms Hs behalf and it offered £200 compensation.
Mr H went on to contact NatWest to arrange the settlement of her accounts and release of 
funds held. Mr H went on to raise a complaint and said NatWest had sent an email 
addressed to his late mother despite being aware shed passed away. NatWest advised it 
had no control over whether the third party had withdrawn funds after Ms Hs death as they 
had access to the account at that time. 
NatWests final response also said there was no evidence to show it was aware of a dispute 
with the care home at the point it issued a cheque in 2015 and there was no offer to issue a 
refund. NatWest also confirmed it wasnt looking to pay any additional interest on the funds 
held in a holding account while waiting for the Grant of Probate to be supplied. 
NatWest said the Grant of Probate was received on 22 April 2022 and funds released from 
the estate of Ms H on 5 May 2022. NatWest apologised that the process wasnt completed 
as quickly as normal and offered the estate of Ms H a further £250 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
On the estate of Ms Hs behalf, Mr H referred the complaint to this service and it was passed 
to an investigator. They thought NatWest had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it 
to take any further action. 
Mr H asked to appeal and said NatWest shouldve done more to investigate fraud when he 
notified it of the £5,000 withdrawal in 2012. Mr H also said interest hadnt been correctly paid 
on the estate of Ms Hs accounts. Mr H added that NatWest shouldnt have made payments 
to the care home and that its own records made it clear a caveat was in place. As Mr H 
asked to appeal, the estate of Ms Hs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
As the complaint has a number of different issues, Ill look at each in turn. Mr H has told us 
he was present with his mother when savings accounts were opened and specifically 
checked whether interest would continue to be paid if she died during the product term. But 
following Ms Hs death, the funds were placed in a holding account by NatWest. I can see 
that Mr H has been told that NatWest takes this approach when dealing with savings 
accounts that form part of an estate. Weve recently been back to NatWest and asked it to 
confirm what interest was paid on the savings accounts Ms H held at the time of her death. 
NatWest has provided records that show Ms H opened two fixed rate bonds in 2012. One 
was closed on 21 May 2013, a year later. The other was closed on 16 July 2014, around two 
years after it was opened. Both accounts continued to receive interest until the point they 
matured, which was after the death of Ms H. Once the fixed rates expired, the funds were 
placed in a holding account by NatWest in anticipation of receiving the Grant of Probate and 
releasing the proceeds of the estate. Im satisfied that was a reasonable approach.
The late Ms Hs remaining accounts were closed in September 2018 and funds transferred 
to the holding account awaiting release. At this point, the remaining accounts had been open 
for over six years following the death of Ms H and NatWest has confirmed it followed its 
normal process by paying the funds into the holding account while waiting for the estate 
issues to be resolved. Im satisfied that NatWest did continue to pay interest until the 
relevant maturity dates were reached and that it fairly paid the remaining funds into a holding 
account. 
Mr H has told us a third party withdrew £5,000 from the late Ms Hs account shortly after she 
passed away. Mr H has explained he visited a branch a short time later and found out about 
the withdrawal. But Mr H says NatWest failed to take any action following the withdrawal. 
Ive looked at NatWests contact notes but theres nothing in 2012 that indicates fraud 
concerns were raised. NatWests final response explains that, from its perspective, the third 
party held power of attorney and was able to access the account in question when the 
withdrawal was made. And I think its fair to note that when the withdrawal was made, 
NatWest doesnt appear to have been aware the late Ms H had passed away. I understand Mr H feels NatWest shouldve done more at the time. But as theres no clear 
record of Mr H raising fraud concerns in 2012 and, from NatWests point of view, the 
withdrawal was made by an authorised person, Im unable to agree its acted unfairly. 
Ultimately, if Mr H feels funds were unfairly removed from the estate, thats a matter he has 
the option to take up separately on behalf of the estate of Ms H. 
Mr H complains that NatWest released funds from the account in 2015 to pay an outstanding 
care home bill. And I agree that the notes do show confusion over whether NatWest was 
meant to make the payment on behalf of the estate of Ms H. I think its fair to note that, at 
this time, the Grant of Probate hadnt been issued and the estate remained in dispute. I can 
see the third party and solicitors acting on their behalf were in regular contact with NatWest 
at this time and that the care home was chasing the outstanding balance. 
Ive also looked at later notes that show NatWest made a further payment, this time in April 
2016. The notes record that the bill was paid after solicitors acting for the third party and 
their solicitors provided an outstanding balance and court order that required the balance to 
be cleared. Ive recently asked NatWest to supply a copy of the relevant court order, but its 
explained that due to the passage of time the document is no longer available. I accept thats 
the case. 
I understand why Mr H has told us he didnt want the bill to be settled and was in dispute 
with the care home. But the bill had been outstanding for some time and NatWest was 
advised the balance continued to accrue interest. I havent been persuaded NatWest made a 
mistake or treated the estate of Ms H unfairly by making a payment to cover the outstanding 
balance due to the care home, especially given it appears to have received a court order 
requiring a payment to be made. Again, if Mr H disputes the care costs charged to the estate 
of Ms H, he has the option of taking this up directly with the care home. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr H, but I havent been persuaded to tell NatWest to refund the payments it 
made on behalf of the estate of Ms H to cover care costs.
Last year, the Grant of Probate was approved by the courts naming Mr H and a solicitor as 
executors. NatWest accepts that the service provided at times was poor and that the 
process of releasing funds from the estate wasnt completed as quickly as it shouldve been. 
NatWest paid the estate of Ms H a total of £450 to apologise for the service provided, delay 
and inconvenience caused. Ive read and considered everything Mr H has told us about his 
experiences when dealing with NatWest on behalf of the estate of Ms H. Having done so, Im 
satisfied the £450 settlement reflects the level of inconvenience caused and is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint. As Im satisfied NatWest has already agreed a settlement that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that National West Minster Bank Plc has already agreed a settlement that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman