The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasn't able to collect cash he had ordered to a branch of HSBC UK
Bank Plc because the counter was closed.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 June 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why, based on the 
information I had seen so far, I intended to uphold Mr B's complaint. I invited both parties to 
respond with any additional comments or information they wanted me to consider before I 
made my final decision.
My provisional decision dated 23 June 2020 said:
What happened
Mr B ordered £9,500 to be made available in cash at a HSBC branch for 14 September
2019, a Saturday. Mr B was travelling abroad on 15 September 2019 and has told us he
wanted to take the cash with him to avoid transfer fees and unfavourable exchange rates. Mr 
B has also explained that he is charged 2% for using his account in the country he visited.
When Mr B arrived to pick up his cash he was told the branch didn't offer a counter service
on Saturdays, so he couldn't collect it. Mr B left the cash in the branch and travelled abroad
as planned.
Mr B complained and HSBC agreed it had arranged for cash to be collected from a branch
that didn't offer counter service on the agreed date. HSBC paid Mr B £75 to cover his branch 
visit and any fees he may incur for transferring the funds.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
HSBC had dealt with Mr B's complaint fairly so didn't ask it to do anything else. Mr B didn't 
agree so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is annoyed. He ordered a substantial amount of money to be
made available so he could take it abroad. He gave HSBC plenty of warning of his
requirements for cash and it accepts a mistake was made when it was ordered to a branch
DRN-2026447Mr B couldn't pick it up from. Mr B has explained that he specifically didn't want to transfer
the money, due to the costs he would incur.
In its submission to our service, HSBC has said that Mr B chose not to transfer the funds
instead and that he could've easily done so. But I can't see that HSBC has checked Mr B's
banking arrangements in the country he was visiting or what charges he might incur for
using his account. Mr B has explained that he would lose 2% of any funds transferred to his
bank account abroad because he's charged for making transactions.
In addition, there are various ways people can transfer funds abroad. For example, some
consumers chose not to use their bank account provider because it's often possible to get a
different exchange rate by using a dedicated foreign exchange service. If Mr B had
proceeded to transfer the funds via HSBC on the day he was due to collect his cash his
options would have been very limited. Given the amount of time left before his trip the
following day, I can understand why Mr B chose to leave the funds in place and not to
transfer them.
I wouldn't expect HSBC to compensate Mr B for fees he didn't incur as he didn't transfer the
funds in question. And I can see HSBC has already paid Mr B £75 to cover the costs
involved with visiting the branch unnecessarily. But, it's clear this situation was very
upsetting for Mr B and I don't doubt he had to make other plans when he wasn't able to take
the cash he had ordered with him. I think the fairest approach is that HSBC compensates 
MrB for the errors it made and the distress and inconvenience that caused him. As I've said,
I've factored in that Mr B had intended to take the cash abroad and that his options, after he
was unable to pick it up, were very limited.
I'm satisfied HSBC's error has caused Mr B a reasonable level of distress and
inconvenience. Unless I see something that changes my mind, I intend to tell HSBC to pay
Mr B an additional £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B.
Mr B responded to say he accepted the provisional decision. We didn't hear back from 
HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B accepted my provisional decision and HSBC didn't respond with any new 
information or comments for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached. I still think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for HSBC to increase the 
compensation award by an additional £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr B.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B an 
additional £200.
 
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman