DRN-2817004
The complaint
This complaint is about information Santander UK Plc recorded on Mr Ds credit file about 
his mortgage payments in 2016. He thinks the information was inaccurate and has caused 
him to be declined for credit on multiple occasions.
What happened
There were other elements to the complaint, but an ombudsman colleague has issued a 
decision saying they were referred to us too late under our rules. Ive looked at that decision 
and I agree that the issue Ive listed above is all that our rules allow us to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broad principle is as follows; lenders have an obligation to report what has happened on 
a mortgage account accurately and factually; they cant provide context. So if payments are 
missed and an account goes into arrears, that has to be reported. Similarly, if a payment 
arrangement has been agreed to deal with the arrears, that and the extent to which its 
being maintained  has to be reported too. 
Thats what happened in respect of Mr Ds mortgage in 2016. His account was in arrears in 
2016 from May onwards, and this was reported on his credit file. He had a payment 
arrangement for October and November 2016, and this was also reported on his credit file. 
In other words, Santander reported what Id expect it to report in the circumstances.
Ill make one further observation, just for completeness. Mr D was unhappy that we insisted 
on seeing a full and unedited copy of his credit file; he considered this interrogation of his 
wider credit history to be unnecessary. Actually, its essential in a case like this. 
Thats because, even when we conclude that a business has recorded inaccurate 
information (and to be clear, I havent here) on someones credit file, we dont automatically 
find that to be the cause of any problems the consumer might have experienced in obtaining 
credit. We still need to rule out the possibility that adverse information recorded by other 
creditors might have contributed to those problems. 
The point is moot here because I havent found that Santander recorded information wrongly 
in 2016. If I had, Id then have had to consider the extent to which a default recorded by a 
mail order firm in 2016 has been a factor in Mr Ds problems obtaining credit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman