DRN-4272027
The complaint
Mr Q has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund three disputed transactions carried out 
with his Monzo card.
What happened
In August 2022 when Mr Q was out with friends and family at a barbecue in the park, he lost 
his iPhone. He later contacted Monzo as he noticed thered been three transactions using 
his Monzo card which hed not made. He also believed these were out of character for his 
account use.
Monzo investigated what had happened. They accepted Mr Q may have lost one of his 
mobile phones but didnt believe the evidence showed hed not authorised the transactions. 
They told Mr Q they wouldnt refund him and closed his account.
Unhappy, Mr Q brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed 
the evidence and felt this showed that Mr Q hadnt authorised the transactions. He asked 
Monzo to refund £2,011.97 to Mr Q.
Monzo disagreed with this outcome and have asked an ombudsman to consider Mr Qs 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 24 July 2023. I explained to both parties I wasnt going 
to uphold this complaint and why.
Both Mr Q and Monzo responded promptly. Monzo accepted this outcome. Mr Q disagreed.
Mr Q made a number of points:
The £2,000 payment was received weeks before the disputed transactions;
He was at a barbecue in the park so wasnt aware where his phone was; 
His PIN was eminently guessable; and
Monzo should have identified these transactions as dodgy. 
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Qs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Qs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Monzo Bank and Mr Q have told us.
Mr Q has disputed three online card transactions of £1,474.99, £424.99 and £111.99 made 
on 11 August 2022 early in the evening. These were made using Mr Qs iPhone which he 
believes he lost in the park that evening.
However I believe its more than likely Mr Q authorised these transactions. I say this for the 
following reasons:
The IP address used for the disputed transactions is very similar to other IP 
addresses accessed by Mr Q using his iPhone and his Monzo app previously. 
Mr Qs iPhone was passcode-protected. He insists this code wasnt known by 
anybody else. Mr Qs passcode is four random numbers so theres a 1 in 10,000 
chance of a third party guessing this right. I appreciate that someone close to Mr Q 
may well have known his passcode.
Mr Q was out with family and friends until about 10pm that evening. The transactions 
were undertaken between 7-8pm. Its very unlikely someone known to him would 
have been able to use his iPhone right then without Mr Q being aware. I also dont 
believe an unknown third party would have been able to pinch Mr Qs phone without 
someone noticing.
Monzo has been able to provide us evidence of Mr Qs account history. This showed 
a £2,000 payment Mr Q had received a few weeks before. This money was given to 
him by a third party whod also held an account with Monzo. This third partys own 
account with Monzo was subsequently closed. The evidence Monzo has provided to 
us suggests there is a similarity between that case and Mr Qs fraud claim.
Mr Q has wondered how Monzo could reject his fraud claim despite them paying out on an 
insurance claim for his lost phone. I agree this is inconsistent, but I dont think it is convincing 
evidence on its own.
Mr Q has now confirmed the PIN on his card could be easily guessed. That may well be the 
case (based on what he has newly told us) but Im not sure this is what happened. This 
information was all held on this phone. The passcode for his phone he told us were random 
numbers. So Im still not sure how the Monzo app could be accessed.
What I do find convincing is the IP address used being identical to one Mr Q regularly used. 
An unknown third party wouldnt be accessing Mr Qs app at the time these transactions 
were being made in the same place Mr Q normally used. This IP address and timing of app 
access also suggests that Mr Q may well not have been in the park in quite the way hes described.
I appreciate it is quite possible to lose a phone whilst playing in the park but I dont believe 
thats what happened here. The similarity between the frauds as described to us by Monzo is 
more convincing.
I think its more than likely  as the evidence shows  Mr Q authorised the transactions. On 
that basis I wont be asking Monzo Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Qs complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman