DRN-3716216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about an application for a mortgage they made to 
Belmont Green Finance Limited trading as Vida Homes. They are unhappy with how the 
application was handled and assessed, and ultimately rejected. 
What happened
In the spring of 2021 Mr and Mrs T decided to re-mortgage their home to release some 
funds to complete home improvements. They sought the assistance of an independent 
mortgage broker to find them a suitable mortgage. They received a decision in principle and 
submitted a full application to Vida. They were applying for an interest-only mortgage for just 
over £400,000 over a term of 20 years. 
The computer-based application form contained information about employment status so 
that the broker could determine on what basis to submit an application. It detailed that if an 
applicant reached a 25% shareholding in a business they were a director of, they would be 
considered self-employed.
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs T were asked to complete an interest-only declaration, which gave 
details of how they intended to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. They documented 
the sale of the property and downsizing, and the sale of shares. The broker stated that Mr T 
had shares in the company he worked for with a current value of £800,000, which he could 
sell in five years time or if the company was bought out earlier.
Vida asked for evidence of the shares Mr and Mrs T proposed to use as the repayment 
vehicle. No evidence was provided, and the broker said that the information about the 
shares was to be disregarded. It confirmed the property would be sold to repay the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs T completed a new interest-only declaration on 10 June 2021 
confirming that they would sell the property at the end of the term. 
Vida was satisfied the application should proceed based on the information it had at that 
point, so it commissioned a valuation. The property was valued on 17 June 2021. The report 
came back that, due to the condition of the property, it was only worth £450,000. This was 
due to the fact that Mr and Mrs T had already started the home improvements and stripping 
out work had occurred so there wasnt a kitchen in the property. 
Mr and Mrs T appealed the valuation and provided supporting evidence at the end of 
June 2021. Vida and the valuer considered this information, but the valuation wasnt 
changed. As such, Mr and Mrs T changed their application in the middle of July 2021. They 
reduced the amount to approximately £383,000 and increased the term to 23 years. They 
also changed the repayment basis to capital and interest. These changes meant that the 
application had to be reassessed. The underwriters requested further information from 
Mr and Mrs T and the last of this was received by the start of September 2021. The 
application was then progressed to the final stage of the assessment. At that point it was 
noted that Mr and Mrs Ts borrowing had increased since the application had originally been 
made. Vida asked for more information about that, which led to more enquiries, including 
some regarding a payment from Mr Ts employer that was included in a bank statement, but 
not reflected in his payslips. 
Vida then became aware that Mr T had another residential address for use when working. It 
came to light that Mr T was a director of the company he worked for and that he held a 
significant proportion of the class A shares in its parent company. Due to this shareholding 
Vida decided that Mr T was, for its purposes, self-employed. As such, a different assessment 
of the application needed to be done, and it failed due to adverse credit records for the 
business of which Mr T was a director. 
Mr and Mrs T complained in October 2021 about how their application was being handled. 
Vida responded to the complaint on 15 December 2021, which it sent to Mr and Mrs Ts 
broker, that had raised the complaint on their behalf. It set out the key points in the 
application process. It acknowledged that the timescales for actions on its part had been 
longer than it would normally like to provide, but this was due to the number of applications it 
had received at that time. It was satisfied that the information it requested at each stage was 
reasonable and that it was right to have declined the application. 
Mr and Mrs T raised a further complaint in December 2021, following the mortgage 
application being declined. They disputed Vidas conclusion that Mr T should be considered 
self-employed, as it was factually untrue.
Vida responded to the December 2021 complaint on 18 January 2022. Vida accepted that 
Mr T wasnt a shareholder of the company he directly worked for, but highlighted that he was 
a 28% shareholder in its parent company. Therefore, it maintained that the application 
should have been submitted on the basis of Mr T being self-employed from the outset. Due 
to the link between the two companies, and the defaults recorded against the one he worked 
for and was a director of, Vida confirmed that it was unable to accept the application. Vida 
again acknowledged some of the timescales for the processing of the application were 
longer than expected due to higher volumes of applications, but overall, it didnt consider it 
did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with Vidas response and referred the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She concluded that Vida hadnt been 
wrong to treat Mr T as self-employed under its underwriting criteria or for it to reject the 
application. However, she thought that Vida should have asked for more information about 
the shares in May 2021 and, had that happened, the application would have been declined 
much earlier and the valuation wouldnt have been done. As such, she recommended that 
Vida refund the valuation fee and pay Mr and Mrs T £500 for the upset and inconvenience 
they were caused. 
Vida didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It pointed out that it was the brokers job to 
establish a customers circumstances before an application was submitted and the broker 
should have investigated the shareholding issue. The need for this was highlighted in the 
application form. It also repeated that it had asked for information about the shares, but it 
hadnt been given that information and Mr and Mrs T had changed their repayment strategy 
so that they didnt need to provide that information. Vida said that it was satisfied that its 
decision and administration of the application was appropriate. 
Our investigator considered Vidas comments, but didnt change her conclusions. As such, it 
was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.As our investigator has explained, lenders have their own criteria for how an application 
should be submitted. When a mortgage broker is involved, it is the brokers responsibility to 
explore the customers circumstances to establish on what basis the application should be 
submitted. In this case, the necessary information for how to determine if an application 
should be submitted on a self-employed basis was contained in the application form the 
broker completed. 
Vida considers that a shareholding of 25% or more means that a consumer should be 
considered as self-employed for the purposes of a mortgage application. While Mr and Mrs T 
dont agree with this, a lender is allowed to set its own criteria and apply it. I would also 
confirm that Vida is not unusual in this approach or the type of percentages it applies. So 
I cant find that it was wrong in its approach. 
Mr and Mrs T have said that Mr T only owns 7.5% of the overall number of voting shares in 
the company. That may be true, but he owns 28% of the Class A shares and Vida has said 
this is sufficient to trigger its self-employment status. Having reviewed all of the evidence, I 
dont think Vida acted unreasonably or unfairly in assessing Mr Ts situation and determining 
he should be considered as self-employed for the purpose of the application. 
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about the timescales for the application to be assessed and 
declined. I would firstly point out that this was effectively two applications. I say this as when 
Mr and Mrs T changed the details of the application, especially the repayment basis, the 
application was a very different proposal and so Vida needed to start its assessment from 
scratch. Although Vida may have been able to use some of the information previously 
provided, further information was required, which led to more questions. Given that a lender 
is required to ensure that it is lending responsibly, I cant find that was inappropriate for Vida 
to ask for the information it did.
Nor can I find it inappropriate for Vida to decline the second application once its assessment 
had been completed. If a mortgage application doesnt fit with a lenders criteria, it is entitled 
to decline to lend. Lending criteria are a commercial decision by the lender and, as long as 
they are applied equally to all consumers in similar positions, the decision to lend or not isnt 
something this service will become involved in. 
Our investigator concluded that Vida should have asked for more information about the 
shares Mr T held in May 2021 when it first became aware of their existence and if it had 
done so, the application would have been declined earlier than it was. I have carefully 
considered this issue, but I dont agree. Vida did ask for evidence of the shares when it 
became aware of them as a source of funds to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. 
Mr and Mrs T declined to provide information about them, changed their repayment strategy 
and told Vida to ignore their existence. Given the context in which the shares were 
mentioned and the brokers duty to explore Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances before the 
application was made, I am not persuaded that there were any flags that mean that Vida 
should have forced the point about being given information about the shares in May 2021. 
As such, I dont think Vida made an error at that time and so the application would have 
progressed as it did, including the valuation being done. 
Vida confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept my conclusions. They didnt think that it was appropriate for Vida 
to raise an issue over eight months after their application. They also said that Vida had never 
been forthcoming with any information or updates; any information it provided was following 
a prompt from one of them. However, they had provided all of the information theyd been 
asked for. Mr and Mrs T put forward that the way they had been treated by Vida was a 
common theme in its dealings with customers, and they wouldnt want anyone else to experience such treatment and the resulting stress and anxiety. They asked whether they 
should raise a complaint with the Prudential Regulation Authority, as they had come to the 
conclusion that Vida didnt have funds to lend, which was why it had prolonged the 
application process. In addition, Mr and Mrs T questioned Vidas review of the companies 
Mr T was director of as the defaults dont show on its credit history, had not affect the 
business or its growth, nor had it affected its ability to obtain credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm that our role is to consider individual complaints by customers of 
financial businesses. So if Mr and Mrs T have concerns that Vida isnt complying with its 
regulatory obligations in relation to funding or reserves, those concerns would more 
appropriately be directed to the regulator. As such, I wont comment further on the 
suspicions Mr and Mrs T have expressed. 
As for it being inappropriate for Vida to have raised an issue so long after the initial 
application, as I explained in my provisional decision, the significant changes they made to 
their application part way through the process required a new assessment. That 
reassessment was entirely reasonably in the circumstances and needed to enable Vida to 
fulfil its regulatory obligations. When new facts came to light during that reassessment, Vida 
was entitled to investigate further. That was not unreasonable and nor was Vida declining 
the application when it established that it didnt fit with its lending criteria. 
While not key to the outcome of the complaint, I would comment on Mr and Mrs Ts concerns 
about Vidas communications with them during the process. As Mr and Mrs T had sought the 
assistance of a broker when sourcing and submitting their mortgage application, it would 
generally be considered the brokers responsibility to communicate with its customers up to 
the point a mortgage offer was made. The lender would inform the broker of any 
requirements it had and update it when anything material happened, but it wouldnt usually 
provide a constant stream of updates to the broker. This is because the broker, as an 
industry professional, would be aware of the processes that would be being gone through 
and would request updates when it considered they were necessary or appropriate. 
I have considered all of Mr and Mrs Ts further comments, but I havent been persuaded to 
change my conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman