DRN-4330945
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have dealt with a claim he 
made on a commercial motor policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Our service doesnt value vehicles. Instead, we check to see that the insurers 
valuation is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. We normally base this on the various trade guides whose figures are based 
on nationally recorded sales. However, we will also look at any other evidence 
produced including adverts. 
The trade guides value Mr Hs vehicle at £11,541, £10,262 and £8,550. Mr H has 
also provided evidence to show that to replace his vehicle with one of a similar make 
and model, he would have had to pay in the region of £11,000 upwards. Admiral 
offered £9,443.50. 
Considering all of the evidence, the lower guide appears to be out of line and as 
such, I think it would be reasonable to disregard it. The investigator recommended 
that Admiral pay an average of the top two guides, £10,901.50. I dont think this is 
unreasonable as I think it more likely reflects a fair market value of the vehicle. 
The guide valuations do not include Value Added Tax (VAT), and the policy 
excludes VAT on claims where this amount can be reclaimed from the appropriate 
authority. As Mr Hs business is VAT registered, I think it is reasonable for Admiral 
not to pay this amount to Mr H. 
Mr H was not entitled to a courtesy van under his policy, so I think Admiral acted 
reasonably here in not providing one. 
Putting things right
To put things right Admiral should do the following:
Pay Mr H £10,901.50, less any amount already paid and any applicable excess. It should 
add interest on the amount paid to Mr H at 8% simple per annum from the date it made the 
original payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. I direct it to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman