DRN-3560809
The complaint
Mr P complains PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA reported a late payment marker on his 
credit file for December 2020. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons for thinking that.  
The central issue here is how the refund of monies paid into Mr Ps account on 7 December 
2020 was utilised and viewed. Mr P thinks it should count towards his contractual Monthly 
Minimum Payment (MMP) due on 12 December 2020. And in this case - as the refund was 
for more than the MMP - he thinks it should abrogate the need for him to make the MMP due 
in December 2020. But I disagree.
I think theres some confusion between payments of the overall balance owed under the 
agreement and the MMP. 
Section 2 of the Credit Agreement details what constitutes the MMP. Also at 2.3 it states 
The minimum payment must reach us by the Payment Due Date. you can pay all or part 
of your outstanding balance at any time, in addition to making monthly payments. So, I think 
irrespective of any refunds or independent payments Mr C made towards his overall 
balance, the MMP was still due under the agreement.  
Mr P thinks the credit agreement at 7.4 provides that his refund would reduce the amount he 
owed. Id agree. But the balance of his account - or the amount owed - is different to the 
MMP. The terms of the credit agreement say clearly this MMP must be paid by the payment 
date on his monthly statement. And that the ability to pay all or part of the outstanding 
balance is in addition to making the MMP.
Mr P now concedes he received PayPals email of 12 December 2020 to notify him the MMP 
had failed as his direct debit was refused due to insufficient funds. And warned him of the 
consequences of this.  I think that email not only gave notice of the potential impact on his 
credit file with a late or missed payment but also reinforced the contractual requirement to 
make that MMP aside from the refund.  But, despite receiving this email, Mr P didnt make 
the MMP to bring the balance up to date until 4 January 2021. 
PayPal have a responsibility to report a true and accurate picture of an account to credit 
reference agencies. As the MMP wasnt made until 4 January 2021 I cant say they did 
anything wrong in their reporting for December 2020. I think PayPal acted in line with their 
obligations to report accurately.
Overall, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think PayPal have done anything wrong here or 
acted unfairly here so I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman