DRN-2926442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the One Account they hold with National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest). They say it was their understanding that the account was flexible, and that 
they could repay their borrowing at any time before the end of the term. However, NatWest 
later reduced their lending facility, which meant Mr and Mrs L had to change their repayment 
strategy which has caused them financial loss. Mr and Mrs L also complained that NatWest 
failed to respond to their complaint in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a One account mortgage in August 2002, which is owned and 
administered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). They took this out for £487,500 over 
a term of 18 years on a capital repayment basis, which was secured on their property. The 
offer they received at the time had a repayment plan attached to it. 
In August 2012, NatWest contacted Mr and Mrs L to discuss ways in which their account 
could be brought back in line with the repayment guide because the account was behind the 
repayment plan.
On 9 September 2013, NatWest said they sent a letter to Mr and Mrs L in order to bring to 
their attention that the account was behind its repayment plan. They said they then spoke to 
Mr and Mrs L after this and reduced the facility from £487,500 to £350,000. Mr and Mrs L 
said that this call was aggressive, and they didnt want to receive another call like that one, 
so they changed their approach in order to keep them ahead of the revised advisory plan. 
In July 2019, NatWest completed a review of their repayment plan and process and sent Mr 
and Mrs L a letter informing them that the One account may not have been marketed in the 
way it was intended, so they invited Mr and Mrs L the opportunity to discuss things with 
them.
Mr and Mrs L discussed the account with NatWest and they raised concerns with what had 
happened, Mr and Mrs L said they suffered financial loss of around £100,000 and felt under 
pressure to make payments to the account.
In summary, Mr and Mrs L said:
They lost direct income arising from not being able to take full advantage of the 
benefits arising from bonus sacrifices for 2014 and 2015 
They had consequential lost investment return and dividends from having to cash in 
share options and shares earlier than expected. For example, they were cashed in 
during the period of March 2016  June 2018 as opposed to holding onto them from 
say July 2020 which would have been closer to the expiry of the one account facility 
which was August 2020 
They lost investment fund returns for monies they needed to draw from their pension 
funds as opposed to utilising the borrowing facility on the account (i.e. funds were 
drawn from their private pension fund as opposed to utilising the borrowing facility) 
They would like repayment of payment protection premiums (PPI) of £76.80 for the 
period of September 2013 to June 2016 calculated at £2611.20  34 months at 
£76.80
After looking into things, NatWest didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint as they felt there 
wasnt any financial loss. They said:
During a conversation in July 2019, they asked Mr and Mrs L about credits make to 
the NatWest one account. NatWest said that Mr and Mrs L clarified some of the 
payments were dividends received from Mr Ls employer, but these were not paid 
into the account as a result of the repayment guide plan process and no complaint 
was made in this regard
Mr and Mrs L stated they incurred financial losses because they had to change their 
financial strategy after the call in 2013. Some of these losses included paying 
unnecessary income tax, paying higher national insurance, loss of funds into their 
pension pots, not receiving the 25% government uplift on pension investments and a 
loss of return on the potential pension investments. But they said that Mr and Mrs L 
acknowledged they benefited from redeeming their One account mortgage and didnt 
have to pay mortgage interest at 3.9% per annum on these sums
NatWest said after the telephone conversation on 16 September 2013, the facility 
reduced from £487,500 to £350,000 and on this date, Mr and Mrs L still had 
£52,776.21 available on the facility. NatWest said there is no evidence that Mr and 
Mrs L opposed to the reduction of the facility or that the reduction was inflexible for 
them
They said that Mr and Mrs L stated they had to change their strategy and began to 
pay cash for various expenses and capital items. They said that Mr and Mrs L said 
they topped up the account with deposits and drawdowns from their private pension 
and they specified credits of £15,000 and £20,000 in 2016.  NatWest said their 
records indicate that since September 2013, Mr and Mrs L had more than £45,000 of 
available funds within the facility so they cannot agree that they were left without a 
flexible facility once the reduction had been actioned
NatWest said in Mr and Mrs Ls case, they found that they didnt suffer any financial loss so 
didnt uphold their complaint. 
NatWest offered Mr and Mrs L £100 compensation, but Mr and Mrs L disagreed with this, so 
they wrote to NatWest. NatWest then offered Mr and Mrs L a further £400 compensation for 
the way they handled Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and for the delays that Mr and Mrs L 
encountered. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with what NatWest had said so they brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that 
NatWest had acted unreasonably and highlighted to Mr and Mrs L that part of the terms and 
conditions of the account allowed NatWest to operate a repayment plan within the facility. 
So, she was satisfied that NatWest didnt do anything wrong by trying to ensure the 
mortgage account was conducted in line with how it was expected. She did however agree 
that there were delays in dealing with Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and she thought the £400 
offered in addition to the £100 for the call, was reasonable for the delays. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigator. They made the following comments:
Not long before signing up for the One account, Mr L had benefited from over 22 
years of experience in the banking industry so had a clear understanding of the 
requirements and benefits of the account
Since the initial drawdown in 2002, Mr and Mrs L remained ahead of the advisory 
plan but in 2010 they embarked on a house renovation which cost them £250,000. 
This put them behind the advisory plan but also increased the property value from 
NatWests original valuation of £975,000 to £1,500,000. Mr and Mrs L said they could have asked NatWest to increase their facility but didnt see a need for it as they were 
under the terms of account and could take full advantage of the existing £487,500 
facility and flexibility of the account. They said NatWests document important points 
about the NatWest One account states: you will be free to draw on your account for 
any purpose you choose up to the amount of the facility, though you may not use it 
for business purposes. Similarly, you will be able to repay some or all the amount you 
borrow at any time and you can then draw down on the account again up to the 
facility, provided the borrowing is repaid by the time you retire.
Mr and Mrs L said they wanted to give us more insight into what happened over the 
period of 2011  2013 period. They said the highest amount the plan ever went 
behind was in March 2012 just after they completed the refurbishment  the plan was 
£86,000 behind. This was then reduced to £72,000 by August 2012 (annual review) 
and by August 2013 (annual review), this reduced to £62,000. Mr and Mrs L said the 
outstanding account balance between the two review dates was also reduced by 
around £39,000 showing they were in control of the account
They were not happy with the call they had in 2013 and were offended by the 
aggressive tone of the adviser, who rejected their management of the account, 
including their explanation of affordability and suggestions on how repayment would 
be achieved. The reduction in the facility was the final insult
Section 7.2 of the general conditions states You will from time to time agree with us 
and operate a repayment plan covering the facility. Mr and Mrs L state this is purely 
a guide. They said this is confirmed in NatWests booklet called The Essential Guide 
which states the One account is totally flexible. You can pay it back as quickly or as 
slowly as you want without any early repayment charges  youve got until you retire. 
Youre not locked in, the plan is simply a guide, so you know exactly where you stand 
each month. However, we do ask that you pay off your borrowing by the time you 
retire and stay within the borrowing facility. Mr and Mrs L said the booklet states You 
can run your account to suit your lifestyle. The flexibility of the One account means 
youre free to vary how much you leave in the account each month. You can leave in 
more than your target figure and get ahead of plan  so youll be on course to pay 
your borrowing off early. And when money is tight, and you want to leave in less you 
can  knowing that your monthly statement will always help you get back on track.
Mr and Mrs L said that NatWests remediation based on customer feedback, was that 
their communications in 2012 and 2014 could have been clearer and in some 
instances, some customers may have been influenced to change the way the 
account was managed. They said this is their key point as based on the call of 2013, 
they changed their entire financial strategy
Mr and Mrs L said the One account is not a classic capital and repayment account. If 
it was, then there can be no doubt that if capital repayments were not being made, 
NatWest would investigate and take a tough line with customers. They said the 
conditions state you dont have to stick to it. 
NatWest enquired on a call in 2012 about the account being behind and Mr and Mrs 
L explained it was because of the house refurbishment. They said they confirmed to 
NatWest that they were using the facility as per the agreement and demonstrated 
they were in control of the account. They said that no changes were made at the time 
on either side, so it appeared NatWest accepted their position.
Mr L said his salary continued to be paid into the One account and NatWest were 
fully aware that he was growing his personal pension plans. Affordability was not an 
issue despite being behind the plan. NatWest were also aware Mr L took out a 
mortgage protection policy in case the worst happened, and he felt NatWest could 
rest easy as the value of the property had increased to £1,500,000.As Mr and Mrs L disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have provided very detailed information regarding their complaint and I 
understand they feel very strongly about it. I want to assure Mr and Mrs L that I have taken 
into account everything they have said, but if there is something that I havent mentioned, its 
not because it hasnt been considered  it has, and I have thought very carefully about the 
arguments they have made. But our service has an informal remit, which means I may just 
focus on what I consider to be key to the complaint. 
Did NatWest act reasonably by reducing the facility?
Mr and Mrs L say they understood their borrowing could be repaid at any time before the 
end of the term. Mr and Mrs L have provided various extracts from the One accounts terms 
and conditions and other documents they received when they opened the One account. The 
crux of the matter here is that Mr and Mrs L believe they were in control and managing the 
account effectively, as they were using it as a flexible agreement  which is what they 
thought it was  until the phone call in 2013. The reduction in the facility meant they have 
had to make changes to the financial strategy which has caused them financial loss, which 
they would like to be reimbursed for. 
Mr and Mrs L said as a result of the call in 2013, the call handler rejected their proposals for 
ultimate repayment of the plan and reduced their borrowing facility to suit NatWests 
purposes. They said they were left with no option to but to amend their entire financial 
strategy and this had significant negative financial implications for them. 
Mr and Mrs L said their intention was always to make a final repayment towards the end of 
the term in August 2020 to clear the outstanding balance. Their options included tax-free 
portions of pension funds, insurance policy pay-outs, share sales, savings and even 
downsizing if they had to. Mr and Mrs L said they felt pressured into paying money into the 
One account and feel believe they have been treated unfairly. 
Ive carefully reviewed the mortgage offer document from August 2002, and Ive noted that it 
says:
Your NatWest One account is a personal banking current account. Your facility will initially 
be £487,500. You can withdraw funds up to your facility and repay any borrowing at any time 
without notice.
Along with the offer document, Mr and Mrs L were sent a document entitled Important 
Points about your NatWest One account. This also states:
You will be free to draw on your account for any purpose you choose up to the amount of 
your facility (General Condition 13). Similarly, you will be able to repay some or all the 
amount you borrow at any time and can then draw on the account again up to your facility, 
provided the borrowing is repaid by the time you retire. I have noted that these are also 
some of the examples that Mr and Mrs L have alluded to in the arguments they have made. 
The covering letter which NatWest sent Mr and Mrs L dated 8 August 2002 enclosed the 
documents that Mr and Mrs L needed to sign and keep. One of these documents was your 
repayment plan and it says, this sets out how youve agreed to repay the amount that 
youre borrowing.
The repayment plan states the following:Your NatWest One account is designed to be as flexible as possible, putting you in control 
of your finances. But you must repay your borrowing by the time you retire. This plan is 
based on your chosen payment method and includes an indication of what it could cost you. 
To keep you on track, your One monthly statement will show your planned balance each 
month, for comparison with your actual balance.
The repayment plan then goes on to say:
As you have decided to repay your One account borrowing each month over the next 18 
years, your planned balance should reduce every month.
The plan also clearly set out what the reducing balance should be at years one, five, ten and 
fifteen. 
Mr and Mrs L were also sent a terms and conditions document, and under the heading 
Repayment and then section 7b it said the following:
You will from time to time agree with us and operate a repayment plan covering the Facility.
Whilst I accept some of the wording used in the offer document and booklet indicated the 
facility balance could be repaid at any time, I think the repayment plan makes is clear that 
there was an expectation that the balance would reduce gradually over the term. 
Ive looked at the statements that have been provided and the December 2011 statement 
showed that Mr and Mrs L were behind the plan by £53,851.32.  Because of this, in August 
2012, NatWest contacted Mr and Mrs L in order to discuss bringing the account back on 
track. The facility didnt change in 2012 and the statement from December 2012 shows that 
Mr and Mrs L were behind the repayment plan by £74,625.64. Mr and Mrs L have already 
told us that they embarked on a house renovation in 2010 which put them behind the plan.
It appears that this plan still wasnt adhered to by September 2013 which is what prompted 
the call to Mr and Mrs L.  It seems that NatWest were not satisfied in keeping the facility limit 
at £487,500 and thought it would be better for Mr and Mrs L to have a reduced limit to 
ensure that the outstanding balance was paid off at the end of the term. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L are not happy with how that call went and they said the 
adviser was aggressive. NatWest offered Mr and Mrs L £100 compensation for this part of 
the complaint, but with regards to them reducing the facility, I dont think they did anything 
wrong here. NatWest were entitled to try and ensure that the One account was conducted in 
a way that meant the outstanding balance was paid off at the end of the term. I also dont 
think it was unreasonable for NatWest to try to help Mr and Mrs L to ensure the balance was 
repaid by the end of the term. And Im not convinced that they couldnt have declined the 
reductions at this point had they wanted to. 
NatWest told us that they completed an affordability assessment and they felt it was better 
for Mr and Mrs L to have a reduced facility. Mr and Mrs L have argued that there were no 
issues with their affordability. Ive seen the affordability assessment myself and there do not 
appear to be any issues with affordability and the notes say that Mr L felt payments were 
affordable at the new facility of £350,000. NatWest thought that the facility should be 
reduced, and it doesnt appear to be because there were issues with Mr and Mrs L paying it.  
NatWest were entitled to reduce the facility so that the potential balance outstanding fell 
more in line with the repayment plan.
NatWest have told us that once the facility was reduced to £350,000, the balance on the 
account on 16 September 2013 was £297,293.79. So Mr and Mrs L still had £52,706.21 
flexibility left within the facility. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L feel very strongly about the 
changes they had to make to their financial strategy, but NatWest didnt leave them in a 
position where they didnt have any funds left to use.
I accept that that some of the wording on the One account wasnt clear but as Ive already 
explained, the repayment plan made it clear how the account was designed to run for Mr and Mrs L. And this was the sole point of NatWests remediation project. NatWest accepted and 
said the terms and conditions and marketing material at the time, were not made clear and 
focused on the accounts flexibility and that customers would be able to make payments as 
and when they liked as long as the borrowing was repaid at the end of the term. NatWest 
said that some customers took this to mean that that they were effectively on an interest only 
arrangement which meant that the borrowing wasnt reduced over time. NatWest said the 
annual review summaries they sent to Mr and Mrs L confirmed that the account was run on a 
capital and interest basis and advised Mr and Mrs L of the account position against the 
repayment guide plan. 
Mr and Mrs L have since said they didnt agree to take out a capital and interest mortgage 
and sent in a page from a document, they were sent dated 1 July 2002. Mr and Mrs L said 
that the section on page 9 that referred to interest only and repayment has been left blank.  
So they said their intention from the start was to utilise the flexibility. 
The repayment plan itself highlights a plan to reduce the balance outstanding over one, five, 
ten and fifteen years. If the One account wasnt set up as a capital repayment mortgage, the 
balance wouldnt have had to reduce over the term of the mortgage. In addition to that, the 
letter that was sent out to Mr and Mrs L which confirmed the reduction in the facility, clearly 
states that Mr and Mrs Ls planned repayment method is capital and interest. I therefore 
havent seen anything that would suggest the account had been set up incorrectly. 
Mr and Mrs L have given various examples of how they have lost out financially because of 
the reduction in the facility and I have thought very carefully about what they have said. 
However, there was still flexibility left within the One account for Mr and Mrs L to use. And I 
havent seen anything that suggests Mr and Mrs L opposed to that reduction taking place. I 
note that Mr and Mrs L said they just changed their approach because they didnt want to 
deal with another call like the one in 2013, but if it was putting them under pressure, I think I 
would have expected them to raise this with NatWest at another time. While I understand 
that Mr and Mrs L have said they have lost out financially, I cannot hold NatWest responsible 
for that because I dont think they did anything wrong in reducing the facility on the account. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs L wouldve needed to find a way to pay the mortgage off by now 
anyway. Whilst they may have taken some steps, they wouldnt have otherwise done had it 
not been for NatWest getting in touch, it seems they are likely in a similar situation. 
Furthermore, its impossible to say what they wouldve done had they not repaid the funds i.e 
where the money mightve been invested. And Mr and Mrs L wouldve saved paying interest 
on the amounts theyve repaid sooner than they say they planned. So overall, I cant actually 
see that Mr and Mrs L can demonstrate what, if any loss theyve incurred. 
Delays in the handling of the complaint
Mr and Mrs L said they were unhappy that after they complained to NatWest in July 2019, 
they didnt get an answer from NatWest until November 2019. They said they also made 
various complaints to NatWest after receiving their final response letter but didnt get an 
answer until September 2020. 
NatWest did apologise for this and offered Mr and Mrs L £400 compensation. I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable as it shows that NatWest have recognised they could have dealt 
with this better. NatWest also offered Mr and Mrs L £100 for the trouble and upset 
surrounding the call in 2013  so Mr and Mrs L have been offered £500 in total.
I appreciate that this was a difficult and stressful time for Mr and Mrs L. And after taking 
everything into consideration, I think the award that NatWest has made is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed with this outcome, but I wont be asking 
NatWest to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think the offer made by National Westminster Bank plc 
(NatWest) is fair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman