DRN-2948275
The complaint
Mr J complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) delayed his fund switch 
by not providing him with access to online switching. And that this delay caused him a 
financial loss.
  
What happened
Mr J has a pension plan with Aegon. In May 2020 he decided to switch out of the cash fund 
and into an equity fund. 
Hed made an online switch in 2016, so thought he could carry out this switch online too. But 
he says he tried to make the switch online on the morning of 14 May 2020, a Thursday. But 
he couldnt see how. So at almost 4pm that day, Mr J called Aegon to ask how to carry out 
the switch. 
The Aegon adviser told Mr J that he could do this online or by completing a form. But Mr J 
said that the option to change funds wasnt available on his online account.
After looking into the issue, the Aegon adviser told Mr J that he couldnt carry out the switch 
online as he was over 75. And that the only way to complete the switch was by completing 
and returning a fund switch form. The adviser said hed email the form to Mr J. Hed then 
have to fax or post the completed form back. 
Aegon received the completed form on the morning of Friday 15 May 2020. The switch was 
completed on Monday 18 May 2020. 
Mr J complained to Aegon. He noted that the price of the fund he wanted to switch into had 
increased by over 4% between 15 May 2020 and 18 May 2020. He said if the switch had 
gone ahead when hed wanted it to hed have been able to buy 87 more units in the new 
fund. He asked Aegon to purchase 87 units on his behalf and add them to his pension fund.
Aegon didnt uphold his complaint. But they confirmed that customers aged over 75 can 
access online switching, although it wasnt always the case due to system limitations. They 
explained that the reason Mr J didnt have access to online switching was because he no 
longer had an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). They said that their system requires an 
IFA to be registered on a plan before a customer can process switches online.
Aegon said that theyd been able to add a dummy IFA to his account. This meant he had 
access to online switching again. But they said that they dont guarantee all customers will 
have online access. They said it was an additional benefit which they werent obliged to 
offer. And therefore they cant guarantee that online access will always be available.
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially decided to uphold it. He didnt think Mr 
J had been treated fairly when his ability to make online switches had been withdrawn 
without telling him. So he felt Aegon should work out if Mr J had been disadvantaged by the 
delay and compensate him appropriately. He also felt that Aegon should pay Mr J £100 for 
the distress the complaint had caused him. 
Aegon disagreed with our investigators initial view. They said itd ignored their fund switch 
procedures. They explained that as Mr J had called them just before 4pm on Thursday 14 
May, the earliest fund price he wouldve been able to get at that point was for Monday 18 
May 2020. 
Our investigator considered what Aegon had said and issued a second view. Based on what 
Aegon had highlighted about their switching process, he didnt think Aegon had done 
anything wrong.
Mr J disagreed with this view. He said that he couldnt prove that hed attempted to access 
the online system before 12 noon on 14 May 2020. But that he thought he had. He said he 
didnt phone Aegon immediately when he had problems accessing the online system as he 
had an important appointment that morning. He felt that Aegon hadnt treated him fairly when 
they withdrew access to certain online services without telling him. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on this on 1 July 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Aegon did anything wrong when they didnt provide 
Mr J with access to online switching. But I do think that this complaint couldve been avoided 
if theyd highlighted to Mr J that removing an IFA from his account would mean hed lose 
access to it. And I think Aegon caused Mr J some distress when they gave him an incorrect 
reason for him not having online switching access. So I intend to ask Aegon to pay Mr J 
compensation for trouble and upset. Ill explain why.
I need to decide whether Aegon treated Mr J fairly when they bought his units on 18 May 
2020. Mr J says the units shouldve been purchased on 15 May 2020 when they were 
approximately 4% cheaper. Aegon says they followed the correct switching process.
I acknowledge that Mr J probably did try to access online switching on the morning of 14 
May 2020, although hes unable to provide evidence that he did that. Its clear that Mr Js 
intention was to carry out the switch that day. He expected to be able to carry out the switch 
online as hed done before.
But Aegon said they cant guarantee online switching access. So they make an alternative 
method available for customers who either dont usually have online access, or for whom the 
system isnt working. Mr J used that method  completing a switch form and sending it to 
Aegon  to carry out his switch. 
Aegon said that their switch form explains what time a switch instruction has to be with them 
for it to get that days price. Looking at the information on the switch form, it states: 
If we receive switch instructions at our Head Office before 12 noon, well use the bid (or 
fund) prices set on the next business day to carry out your switch. If we receive it at or after 
12 noon, well use the bid (or fund) prices set on the second business day after we receive it.
Aegon received the completed switch instruction on Friday 15 May 2020 at 10.37am. They 
used the fund prices as at the next business day, Monday 18 May 2020 to carry out the 
switch. This in line with their fund switch procedure. So Aegon said that there was no delay 
in completing Mr Js switch and therefore no loss was incurred.
The only way Mr J couldve achieved the switch with fund prices on Friday 15 May 2020 wouldve been if hed got the completed switch instruction to Aegon before 12 noon on 
Thursday 14 May 2020. He feels this wouldve been possible if hed had online switching 
access. I agree that it mightve been possible if hed had access to online switching and if 
the facility had been working that morning. But Aegon doesnt guarantee that facility. So I 
cant hold them responsible for Mr J not being able to access 15 May 2020 fund prices.
I know this will disappoint Mr J. I can see that he feels very strongly about his complaint and 
I understand why. But I can also see why Aegon doesnt guarantee online switching access, 
but instead provides alternative methods of switching. For example, if online switching 
access doesnt work for everyone on a particular day, Aegon wouldnt expect to be on the 
hook for all market price changes that day. 
I acknowledge that Mr J probably did try to access online switching on the morning of 14 
May 2020. But that access wasnt available to him. He didnt have time to call Aegon on the 
morning of 14 May 2020 as he had an important appointment. And by the time he did call 
them hed missed the deadline for getting the next days price. But, as Ive explained above, 
I cant hold Aegon responsible for that. 
I understand that Mr J feels that Aegon can set up their administration anyway they like, but 
if they: discriminate against some policyholders but not others, it is then liable to 
compensate those policyholders for any loss that they incur as a consequence of such 
discrimination. So he feels that in denying him access to online switching, theyre accepting 
liability for any bad consequences. But I dont agree. Aegon doesnt guarantee online access 
to their customers. So their customers cant hold them responsible for any losses they think 
are caused by not having online access.
Ill now consider what Aegon told Mr J.
Incorrect or missing information from Aegon
Aegon didnt inform Mr J of the consequences of the removal of his IFA from his account. If 
they had, I think this complaint couldve been avoided. 
Mr J said: In my case I had used the switch facility in 2017 and I have since had no 
communication from Aegon to advise me that the situation had changed. I therefore had 
every right to expect the online switch facility to be available to me on 15 May 2020.
Neither side has sent me the terms and conditions of the policy. Although I wouldnt expect 
these to state that Aegon have to inform Mr J of the consequences of such changes, I think 
they should have. Mr J had previously used online switching so Aegon shouldve been 
aware that he might want to use it again.
Aegon have also acknowledged that during Mr Js 14 May 2020 call with them they 
incorrectly told him he couldnt carry out online switches as he was over 75. Aegon have 
since apologised for this error and explained the real reason for lack of access. But I 
consider that this incorrect information caused Mr J additional trouble and upset. 
I acknowledge that Aegon took reasonable steps to resolve Mr Js access to online 
switching. But I still consider that some compensation for trouble and upset should be paid. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I intend to ask Aegon to pay Mr J £200 for the trouble and 
upset theyve caused him. 
Response to my provisional decision
Mr J accepted my provisional decision. Aegon asked me to re-consider the compensation Id provisionally recommended. They said 
that trouble and upset hadnt been mentioned by Mr J in his original complaint or in any 
communications with them. 
Aegon noted that they had previously had system limitations with certain types of plans 
when a customer reached the age of 75. So when their agent told Mr J this was the reason 
he couldnt carry out online switches they felt hed made a reasonable assumption. 
Aegon also disagreed that they shouldve told Mr J that removing his IFA would remove his 
access to online switching. They said that the removal of an IFA doesnt automatically mean 
that a customer wont be able to use their online access. And noted that this was quite a rare 
occurrence. They noted: when were dealing with online issues, were often not aware 
theres an issue until the customer calls to tell us. Its often not as simple as saying a 
particular action on a particular plan or plan type will cause a certain issue. So they dont 
agree theyd have been able to warn Mr J of the consequences of removing his IFA as they 
didnt know if there would be any consequences. And they noted there wouldve been no 
guarantee that Mr J wouldve remembered he could no longer switch online three years after 
his IFA had been removed from his account. 
Aegon also noted that theyd offered Mr J an alternative method of switching during his 
phone call with them and then resolved the issue as quickly as possible.
Aegon said they felt that the award of £200 was excessive under the circumstances. They 
felt, if anything, that this would be considered a minor error as there was no financial loss 
caused and the fund switch was completed correctly. They asked for my reasoning behind 
the award of £200.
Aegon also noted that Mr J didnt mention that hed tried to access the online system before 
12 noon on 14 May 2020 to the agent he spoke to at 15.56 the same day. They said that 
hed not mentioned this in his original complaint letter to Aegon or to FOS.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Aegon didnt deliberately cause Mr J any upset. But I disagree that Mr J 
never mentioned trouble and upset to them. In his 21 May 2020 complaint letter he 
requested compensation: for the considerable inconvenience and anguish that your 
companys actions have inflicted upon me.
Based on what Aegon have said, I understand why they consider that it was reasonable for 
their agent to assume that the previous systems limitations meant that Mr J didnt have 
online access as he was over 75. But that wasnt correct in this case. And it led Mr J to 
feeling that hed been discriminated against due to his age.
I understand why Aegon didnt explain exactly what the consequences of removing his IFA 
from his account would be for Mr J. But I consider that Aegon couldve explained that there 
might be implications for his online access. I understand that this is a relatively unusual 
issue. And that Aegon often cant know theres a problem until a customer tells them theres 
a problem. But if Aegon had informed Mr J that there might be implications from removing 
his IFA from his account, I couldnt have held them responsible for not telling him.
I dont consider that the award of £200 is excessive under the circumstances. This is 
because I feel there were effectively two errors: not informing Mr J that removing the IFA from his account might have access implications. And incorrectly telling him that his access 
had been restricted due to his age.
I note what Aegon said about Mr J not mentioning his attempt to access the online system 
when he called them. But in his 21 May 2020 complaint letter he said: On 15 May 2020 
(note that the actual date was 14 May 2020) when I came to switch from cash into equities I 
was barred from doing so on-line. So Im satisfied that Mr J did mention that hed tried to 
access the online system before calling Aegon. Although he didnt note the time he did this. 
Having considered everything Aegon have said, I remain of the view I set out in my 
provisional decision. I still consider that this complaint couldve been avoided if Aegon had 
highlighted to Mr J that removing an IFA from his account might have implications for his 
online access. And I still feel that Aegon caused Mr J some distress when they told him his 
online switching access had been removed due to his age. Overall, I consider £200 to be fair 
and reasonable compensation under the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require Scottish Equitable Plc to pay Mr J £200 for the trouble and upset they caused him.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint. 
I require Scottish Equitable Plc to pay Mr J £200 for the trouble and upset they caused him.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman