DRN-4374883
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) wouldnt refund 
money she lost in an investment scam.
 What happened
What Miss S says:
In January 2022, Miss S read an article about bitcoin investment  and how someone had 
made good returns. She went online and looked at a bitcoin trading platform and was then 
contacted by someone who said he was an investment advisor. 
She was told how to set up an account with an investment platform (B) and was given an 
account manager, who then contacted her. Miss S researched the website of B and it looked 
credible. She saw reviews from other customers of B  who said they were making good 
returns. The account manager said she could double her money within six months.
He coached her to set up an app for the investment platform (I will call the investment 
company B) and helped Miss S open an account with a payment services provider (which I 
will call PSP1). This was a crypto wallet for the purposes of receiving money from a bank 
account and then transferring it to B.
Miss S made several small trades  by sending funds from her bank accounts to PSP1 and 
then to B. And saw her investment growing by looking at her account in Bs website. She 
was encouraged to make further investments  and sent £15,610 from another bank. These 
payments are the subject of another complaint brought to our service.
The account manager sent her WhatsApp messages every day to make sure she could see 
the profits she was making. And sent regular investment reports. He pressurised her to 
invest more money.
In March 2022, she received a warning from PSP1 to say her account had been frozen due 
to suspected suspicious activity. The account manager told her how to respond to PSP1, 
and she was then encouraged by him to open another account with a second payment 
services provider (PSP2). The account manager showed her how to transfer money from 
her bank accounts to PSP2, and then onto the investment company.
In April 2022, Miss S made payments from one of her other bank accounts to PSP2 totalling 
£21,928.
Miss S then made further payments from her Halifax account to PSP2 and then to B - 
totalling £17,290. These payments are the subject of this complaint.
Miss S was in touch with the account manager by WhatsApp messages from January 2022 
to June 2022.
In May 2022, the account manager said the bitcoin market was crashing and her account 
was falling into deficit  her initial investment was going down. Miss S went into panic 
mode. He said she had to buy insurance (costing £20,000) to protect her investment  but 
she would still make a profit. Miss S said she had no money left  but under pressure from 
the account manager, she took out a loan for £4,000 and sent that to PSP2 and then to the 
investment company. These payments were made from another bank account.
The payments made from Miss Ss Halifax account are the subject of this complaint::
Date Type/ Beneficiary Amount
24 January 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £190
19 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £500
19 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £4,500
26 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £10,050
28 April 2022 Faster payment/ PSP2 £2,050
Total £17,290
Miss S believed she would immediately get her investment money back, but she couldnt 
then get access to the website of B, and the WhatsApp messages to / from the account 
manager were blocked. She then realised she had been the victim of a scam.
She had sold her house the year before and a lot of the money had been lost. She was now 
finding it difficult to pay bills. She now had a high interest loan to make repayments to; and 
had to move in with her partner to enable her to live. Her losses were putting pressure on 
her relationship. She feels anxious and angry.
Miss S said the payments werent typical. She said Halifax shouldve done more to protect 
her. She says the bank should refund the money she paid from her Halifax account.
What Halifax said:
In July 2022, Halifax said Miss S hadnt put the details of the scam to their fraud department 
and therefore couldnt properly investigate it. Theyd tried to contact both Miss S and her 
solicitor, but without success. If Miss S could provide more details  they would review her 
complaint.
Our investigation so far:
We asked Halifax for their report and information and based on that; our investigator looked 
at what had happened. Miss S had provided her version of events to her solicitor, who had 
put this to us in support of her complaint. Our investigator felt we had enough information to 
investigate Miss S complaint.
He didnt uphold it. He said Halifax correctly held the larger payments of £4,500 and £10,050 
 as these were out of character for the way in which Miss S used her account. And Halifax 
then contacted Miss S to discuss those payments. He was satisfied that Halifax asked the 
right questions  on the calls on 25 April 2022 and 26 April 2022.  Halifaxs call handler:- alerted Miss S to cryptocurrency scams.
- asked if anyone else had access to her account.
- how she found out about the platform.
- whether shed experienced any problems.
- whether shed been able to withdraw funds.
- whether anyone was asking her to make the payments.
- whether anyone was asking her to invest more money.
He was satisfied that Miss Ss responses were such that it was reasonable that Halifax then 
made the two payments.
He considered that Halifax couldnt make any attempt recover the funds  as Miss S hadnt 
made contact with them, and it was likely that the funds had been moved from PSP2 to B in 
any case.
Miss S asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss S has lost money in a cruel and sophisticated scam. Its not in 
question that she authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although she 
didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in 
the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Miss S own account with the 
payment service (PSP2). 
The important matter here is whether these were payments that Halifax might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payment and contacted Miss S about them. 
I looked at Miss S account history with Halifax. Its reasonable to say she used her account 
for day-to-day expenditure, with no payments for more than £500  in the 12 months before 
the payments to PSP2.
Payments: £190, £500, and £2,050:
I considered these payments. And - theres a balance to be struck: Halifax has obligations to 
be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be 
involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate 
payments. In this case, I think Halifax acted reasonably in processing the payments, as they 
were relatively low value.
Payments: £4,500 and £10,050:
Halifax correctly held these payments and contacted Miss S. I listened to the calls between 
her and Halifaxs fraud team. Theyre important calls in the context of this complaint.
Call  25 April 2022 (£4,500)
The relevant parts of the call are:
Halifax: who is the payment to? Miss S: PSP2
Halifax: Have you used PSP2 before? Miss S: yes
Halifax: Any issues in the past? Miss S: No
Halifax: How did you get the account details? Miss S: from my account on there.
Halifax: How did you find out about this crypto exchange? Miss S: my own research
Halifax then gave a warning:  there are a lot of scams at the moment, people being 
contacted by WhatsApp and Facebook messenger. Miss S said to go ahead.
Call - 26 April 2022 (£10,050):
Halifax: does anyone else have access to the account or just you? Miss S: just me.
Halifax: have you been able to withdraw any funds since you put money in? Miss S: yes.
Halifax: did you use a broker? Miss S: no.
Halifax: Has anyone asked you to make these transfers? Miss S: no.
Halifax: has anyone said you should put more money in because youre making so much 
money? Miss S: no.Halifax: are you happy to make the payment? Miss S: yes.
I noted that Halifax asked the open questions they were expected to. I also noted that Miss 
S answers werent consistent with the complaint she put to us  she had been asked to 
invest more money by the account manager because she was apparently making a lot of 
money; and it was the account manager who said she should make the payments. Also  
she hadnt at that stage asked to make any withdrawals. 
I considered whether Miss S had been coached by the account manager to respond in the 
ways she did  but I reviewed the WhatsApp chats and couldnt see that she was.
So  I dont think Halifax couldve reasonably done any more.
Therefore, based on the calls, I dont think I can reasonably hold Halifax liable for these 
payments.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. I looked at whether Halifax took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. 
But in this case, as Miss S hadnt contacted Halifax with details of the scam, I dont think I 
can reasonably have expected Halifax to attempt to recover the money. But even if Halifax 
had done so, it was unlikely there would be any funds left  as its usual in scams of this type 
that funds are removed by the scammers within hours. In addition, the account with PSP2 
was in Miss Ss own name, and she then moved the funds onto the investment company  
so there werent any funds to be reclaimed.
Miss S has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and 
the impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore 
be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman