DRN-4302970
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call H, has complained about the handling of a claim and the 
settlement made under its Retailers Insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK plc.
Mr and Mrs A, directors of H have brought the complaint on its behalf. 
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agents it uses to deal with claims on its behalf. As AXA has accepted it is  
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to AXA includes the 
actions of the agents.
Mr and Mrs A also appointed a loss assessor to represent them in the claim. For ease, I will 
refer to Mr and Mrs A, or H, throughout this decision. 
What happened
In May 2021, H made a claim under its policy for loss of stock and business interruption, 
after its shop premises were burgled. It had to close for 10 days, as it was a crime scene. H 
also says that when it was able to reopen, it could only serve customers at the door due to 
damage to the shop. 
AXA confirmed there was cover under the policy and appointed loss adjusters to assist with 
the claim. Having assessed the claim, AXA offered the total sum of £49,161 for loss of stock, 
£5,729 for damaged stock and £600 for portable devices. In respect to the business 
interruption claim AXA assessed the average gross profit before and after the theft and 
offered £1,347.07 for the period the shop was closed and the four-week period immediately 
after the loss. 
Mr and Mrs A are very unhappy with the amount offered and with the way AXA handled the 
claim. They have made a number of submissions in support of their complaint. I have 
considered everything they have said but have summarised the mains points below: 
It would have taken around £2,000 per day in the 10-day period the shop was closed. 
The offer of £1,347.07 is therefore not enough.
In addition, the amount offered for the business interruption part of the claim fails to 
take into consideration various factors that meant its income was increasing, 
including the upward sales trend for its stock during the Covid-19 pandemic and that 
the business was in development and had plans to move to a bigger premises before 
the burglary prevented this. 
The delays in making interim payments meant it was unable to replace stock and 
missed out on seasonal sales. 
Also, due to the pandemic and Brexit, the price of stock has gone up significantly and 
it has been more difficult to source items. The settlement should take account of the 
fact it cost it considerably more to replace the items stolen; and that it was unable to 
replace some of the higher end items. As such, it was unable to sell them on, which 
meant it lost more profit.
AXA has not explained the way it calculated the business interruption payment. 
AXA asked for so much information and they had to spend hours and hours dealing 
with the claim and repeated requested for information.
H wants compensation for AXAs negligence with the claim and an increased settlement 
taking account of the above issues.  H suggests the loss of earnings was around £2,000 per 
day for the 10 days it was closed. H says it also lost over £27,000 in profit it would have 
made on the stolen items due to the delay in AXA settling the claim and the difficulties 
replacing stock; and that the cost of replacing the stolen items was £86,908.37 but it was 
paid £56,083 for it by AXA. 
AXA said all the information it requested was required to properly assess the claim. AXA 
also said that the increased cost to H of replacing stock items is irrelevant, as the claim did 
not cause the increased price, which was due to external factors. It has indemnified H for the 
loss of stock and it cant therefore reasonably be expected to also compensate for loss of 
sales of that stock. AXA says it only has to pay the loss of value at the time of loss and does 
not pay loss of profit on the stock it has already paid for. To do so would mean H would gain 
the sales revenue for no cost which would not be right.  
AXA said there was evidence of a decrease in sales in the four weeks immediately after the 
burglary, compared to previous years, but this got back on track from 14 June 2021. AXA 
also said that H ran at a gross profit loss overall, therefore any closure in fact meant savings 
were made. AXA says H has not provided any evidence to support the figures it claims, so it  
therefore maintains that the £1,347.07 is reasonable for the business interruption caused by 
the theft. 
AXA did however accept that it had not managed Hs expectations when dealing with the 
business interruption aspect of the claim and offered £100 compensation for this. AXA also 
agreed that there were avoidable delays and offered £300 for this (so a total of £400 
compensation). 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not think the complaint should be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that AXA had made a reasonable offer in settlement of the claim. 
H does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loss of Stock
Hs policy sets out how it will settle claims. In relation to loss of stock claims it says:
What is covered
We will pay you for damage to the property insured We will pay the value of the 
property insured at the time of the damage
Basis of claims settlement 
Claims for stock will be settled on the basis of its value at the time of loss or 
destruction with an adjustment for wear and tear.
I think the terms are sufficiently clear that the cover is for the value of the items lost at the 
time of the loss. The evidence available to me shows that AXA paid the value of the items 
based on the amounts paid for them by H. It has not been suggested that the price 
increased between the dates of purchase and the date of the loss, so I have not seen 
anything to say this was incorrect. However, H says that it could not replace the items immediately and when it did the prices 
had gone up considerably. It says this was in part due to delays on AXAs part in making 
interim payments but also says there were significant difficulties in the supply chain at the 
time, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Brexit. 
AXA made three payments in settlement of the amount it says the claim was worth: £4,500 
and £10,000 in July 2021, and a final payment of £39,500 on 25 August 2021. So the claim 
was finalised (albeit not to Hs satisfaction) around 15 weeks after the date of the loss. 
AXA accepts that there was some delay in settling the claim and I agree that the payments 
could have been made sooner. However, there is no convincing evidence in my opinion that 
even if the larger payment had been made say four to six weeks earlier, that H would not 
have had the same issues replacing the stock. I say this because it seems from the evidence 
provided to me that there were other issues at the time that had a more significant effect.  
H provided a letter from a supplier confirming that supply chains were impacted by Covid-19 
and Brexit. H said that it had stockpiled early in the pandemic buying double, even triple 
what it normally would because they anticipated stock issues. And H said in its submissions 
in April 2023 that most suppliers had back orders that wouldnt be fulfilled for a year at 
least. H also said that stock was finally available towards the end of 2022. 
Having considered all the evidence, I do not therefore think that anything AXA did wrong 
caused the problem with the replacement of stock (to include delay in receiving orders, and 
therefore loss of seasonal sales, or the increase in price when H could order). I do not 
therefore consider AXA needs to make any further payment to reflect the fact H could not 
replace the stock more quickly.
Business interruption
Hs policy provides cover for loss of gross profit as a result of business interruption. The 
policy says:
What is covered
if any property used by you at your premises for the purpose of the business suffers 
damage during the period of insurance, and as a result your business is interrupted 
or interfered with then we will pay you for loss of profit by paying:
an amount representing the difference between the sales less relative purchases 
during the indemnity period as compared to the difference between the sales less 
relative purchases during the equivalent period immediately before the damage. 
The indemnity period is defined as being: 
The period during which the business is affected, starting on the date the damage
occurred and ending not later than the number of months shown in your schedule.
The schedule says the indemnity period is 24 months. 
The policy also states that:
Adjustments will be made for trends of the business and for variations and other
circumstances affecting the business either before or after the damage or which 
would have affected the business had the damage not occurred so that the amount 
paid represents as closely as possible the results which would have been expected if 
the damage had not occurred.H says this means it is covered for its lost profits as a result of not being able to replace and 
sell the stolen stock; and the reduced profit it has made on those items it did finally replace 
as the trade prices were higher than AXA had paid for them. 
The purpose of the policy is to indemnify H for losses arising from an insured event, in this 
case a theft. AXA has paid the cost of the stolen stock and has considered a claim for loss of 
gross profit as a result of the theft. I do not agree this loss of gross profit would include the 
loss of gross profit that H would otherwise have made on the stolen stock if H had still had it, 
or been able to replace it immediately, and sold it beyond the end of the indemnity period. 
The policy provides for the value of the stock, which AXA has paid. The business interruption 
cover is to provide indemnity for sales that could not or werent made as a direct result of the 
theft. The fact H could not replace the stock immediately was not directly due to the theft. 
And the fact that the replacement costs of stock were higher (and therefore the profit margin 
on those items lower) was also not a direct result of the theft.  
As stated above, I also do not think the delay in replacing the stock was due to anything AXA 
did wrong. I am therefore satisfied that AXA has reasonably considered the business 
interruption cover as being the impact on sales as a direct result of the theft.   
AXA said the indemnity period for this part of the claim would be the time the shop was 
closed and a period of four weeks thereafter, which is when normal trading resumed. It 
accepted the shop had been closed for a total of ten days, as a result of the theft. I have not 
seen any evidence that this is not a reasonable determination. I will explain why. 
H says the shop takings for the same period (i.e. 12 May to 22 May) were £11,065.58 in 
2019, zero in 2020 (as it was shut due to Covid-19) and £12,316 in 2022, but that it also had 
additional staff costs in 2022. However, this is not its gross profit figure for this period. And I 
think it was reasonable for AXA to consider a longer period than just the days the shop was 
shut to work out the actual loss to H.
AXA reviewed accounts figures from 2019, 2020 and 2021 in order to compare sales for the 
same period in previous years to that following the theft in May 2021. AXA determined that 
the accounts showed the following turnover for the periods below: 
13/05/2019  05/08/2019 £85,430.00
15/06 2020  03/08/2020 £116,366.00 (AXA says this was likely inflated because 
people werent able to purchase before June 2020 due to lockdown and there would 
have been a surge when stores like H were able to reopen). 
11/05/2021  03/08/2021 £122,560.54
AXA therefore says the turnover for the 12 weeks after the theft was better than the previous 
two years, so it says the burglary had no negative impact on sales over that period. 
However, from other figures provided (management figures), the shop takings in the six 
weeks before the loss ranged from £3,364.84 to £8,171.31 per week (one week was only 
£580.15 but this appears to have been an outlier for some reason). Then for four weeks after 
the loss, takings ranged from £4,034.44 to £5,995.97 per week. Then from the fifth week 
after the loss (mid June 2021) until 2 August 2021 they ranged from £8,995.62 to £15,559.17 
per week. 
Having considered these figures, AXA noted that the four weeks immediately after the theft 
had seen lower than expected takings. It worked out the loss of gross profit for this period of 
four weeks, being the £1,347.07 offered.I am also satisfied that AXA has determined the indemnity period reasonably, as there is no 
evidence of further losses beyond the four week period after the theft. 
AXA has also pointed out that Hs full accounts for 2019 and 2020 show that it was operating 
at a net loss. AXA also said Hs profit and loss account for the year ending 2021 was 
£167,028 and the year ending 2020 (so before effects of Covid) was £172,131, so there was 
a downward trend in profit, rather than an upward trend as H has suggested. 
AXA therefore considers its offer is fair and says H has not provided any evidence to support 
any further claim for business interruption losses. 
H says it was making a loss in its first two years (2019 and 2020) as it was ploughing 
everything into starting the business up but 2021 should have been the best year, as related 
sales were up due to Covid-19 positively impacting its sector. 
H says its gross profit for 2019/2020 was £43,317 (a gross rate of profit of 25.17%); in 
2020/2021 it was £44,658 (a rate of 26.74%); and in 2021/2022 it was £31,535 (a gross rate 
of profit of 13.15%). H says this shows the effect on gross profit following the loss and that it 
was ongoing. 
However, given the figures provided (which show the highest gross profit as £44,658 for the 
year 2020/2021, it is difficult to see how H contends that its loss of gross profit from the theft 
(which resulted in it being closed for ten days) resulted in loss of profit of over £57,000. 
Around 500 items were stolen valued at around £56,000, which is a lot of stock, but the total 
of Hs stock was valued at around £200,000 according to the accounts.  I do not therefore 
see that H can claim to have lost more gross profit than it has previously made in a whole 
year. To put it another way, in order to have lost £57,000 profit as it is claiming, H would 
have had to have sold £56,000 worth of stock and made £57,000 profit (ignoring all other 
costs of sales); so another £113,000 of turnover and a total of around £235,000 turnover in 
the 12 week period after the theft in 2021. This is twice what it make in the previous year in 
the same period. There is no convincing evidence to support that H would otherwise have 
had an additional £113,000 in turnover during the 12 weeks after the theft, if it had not been 
for the theft. 
It is for H to demonstrate the loss it is claiming and I do not think it has done enough to 
demonstrate that it incurred the losses it is suggesting as a direct result of the theft in 
May 2021. I also do not think there is enough evidence to show that the planned growth and 
projected performance of the business was prevented solely and directly by the theft.
Given this, I am satisfied that AXA has shown it make a fair and reasonable offer of 
settlement of the business interruption part of Hs claim, and I do not consider that it needs 
to make any further payment. 
Claims-handling and delays
H has also complained that AXA delayed dealing with the claim and kept asked for 
excessive information, sometimes the same information. I can see that H did provide a lot of 
information but I can also see AXA was asking for evidence to support the figures it provided 
and to evidence its claim for loss of profit. 
While this would have been time-consuming for Mr and Mrs A, this information was 
necessary. I have not seen any evidence that the information and evidence AXA asked for was unreasonable. AXA did however accept that it had not managed Hs expectations about 
the business interruption part of the claim and offered £100 for this. 
In its final response, AXA also accepted that the claim was delayed and it took around two
months for the first interim payment of £4,500 to be made and three and a half months from 
the date of the theft for the final claim payment to be made. I agree these payments could 
have been made sooner. It would probably be reasonable for each payment to have been 
paid around a month earlier. AXA offered a further £300 compensation for this. 
I can only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a 
financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a 
limited company, rather than any individual. A limited company cannot suffer distress or 
frustration. So, I cannot consider the impact on Mr and Mrs A personally of the way the claim 
was handled. 
Having considered everything, including the fact H did not have the settlement monies 
available to it sooner, I consider the compensation offered already is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK plc has already made an offer to pay £400 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So 
my decision is that AXA Insurance UK plc should pay H £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman