DRN-3765896
The complaint
Miss G complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss G took out a pet insurance policy with CG for her dog in June 2021. In December 2021 
the dog began limping, so she took it to a vet. In January 2022 the vet diagnosed a ruptured 
cruciate ligament, requiring tibial plateau levelling osteotomy (TPLO) surgery. Miss G made 
a claim for the cost of treatment.
However, CG said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history 
indicated a previous consultation in March 2018 when the dog was limping. They said they 
showed the dog had a pre-existing condition, before the policy was taken out. Pre-existing 
conditions werent covered under the policy. 
Miss G was unhappy about CGs decline of her claim, as she didnt think the previous clinical 
history indicated a pre-existing condition. Her vet also said that any cruciate ligament injury 
would not have taken from March 2018 to January 2022 before rupturing. So, Miss G 
complained to CG (and subsequently to this service) about their decline of the claim.
CG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Miss G took out her 
policy, the terms and conditions provided to her made it clear pre-existing conditions (or 
where there were clinical signs of existence) wouldnt be covered. CG referred to information 
in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the Policy Definitions, Veterinary 
Fees and General Exclusions sections of the policy which stated pre-existing conditions 
werent covered. 
CG also referred to the clinical history of the dog, which they said indicated signs and 
symptoms of lameness prior to the start of the policy. Had they been disclosed to them, they 
would have applied an endorsement (exclusion) to the policy to exclude all cover on claims 
with respect to anything to do with [hind limb] lameness and associated conditions from the 
date the policy started. 
CG also referred to the clinical history indicating the dog had hopped since birth, indicating 
previous issues with its legs. In the absence of indications the ligament rupture was due to 
trauma (the other cause CG said was most commonly seen) then they confirmed their 
decline of the claim.
CG also said they would be applying two further endorsements to the policy (from the start 
date) to exclude cover for, firstly, both stifles and, secondly, cruciate ligament and any 
associated conditions.
In her complaint to this service, Miss G said CG had unreasonably declined her claim, as the 
vets view supported the case the dog didnt have a pre-existing condition when the policy 
was taken out. The dog was examined in June 2021 for its annual check-up and booster 
vaccinations and no issues with its leg joints were noted. Shed had to pay for the cost of the 
surgery, and she was concerned about the likelihood the dogs other cruciate ligament might 
also require surgery (because of the additional strain on the leg while the dog was limping). 
She wanted CG to settle her claim and reimburse her for the cost of surgery.
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. This was 
based on Miss Gs vets opinion the ligament rupture wasnt linked to the previous lameness 
in March 2018, That visit suggested the issue was a soft tissue injury, so the question asked 
of Miss G when the policy was taken out (whether she was looking to cover a pre-existing 
condition) didnt make it clear Miss G needed to tell CG of every previous injury. He didnt 
think the previous soft tissue injury was a pre-existing condition. So, he concluded it wasnt 
fair for CG to add the retrospective endorsements (exclusions) to the policy.
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should settle Miss Gs claim. CG declining 
the claim had also caused Miss G distress, so CG should pay £100 in compensation. They 
should also remove the endorsements (exclusions) placed on the policy.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they said one of the most common causes of cruciate ligament 
rupture was long-term degeneration, as the fibres within the ligament weaken over time  
and it couldnt be ruled out that a pet could suffer from an underlying degeneration of the 
ligament over many years. They also referred to a published source saying limping was the 
most common sign of cruciate ligament damage. And the clinical history included reference 
to the dog always bunny hopping since birth. Taken together, they thought these points 
confirmed that the signs and symptoms (of a cruciate ligament condition) began prior to the 
start of the policy. So, Miss G had made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Miss G. 
The key issue in Miss Gs complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. CGs view (as set out in their final response) is that they correctly 
declined the claim, on the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated a pre-existing condition 
(they refer to a previous consultation for lameness in March 2018). As a pre-existing 
condition, it was excluded from cover under the policy. Miss Gs view is that the previous 
lameness wasnt linked to the subsequent cruciate ligament rupture. She points to the 
opinion of her vet that had the earlier lameness indicated cruciate ligament damage, it 
wouldnt have taken the time from March 2018 to when the ligament ruptured.  
Theres a second aspect to the complaint. While their final response doesnt explicitly refer to 
it as such (nor have they applied any of the remedies available in such circumstances), CGs 
conclusion there were signs of cruciate ligament issues prior to policy inception - which, had 
they known about at the time, they would have added the endorsement to exclude all cover 
on claims with respect to anything to do with lameness and associated conditions from the 
date the policy started - implies they believe Miss G made a misrepresentation when she 
took out the policy. 
In their response to our investigators view, they confirm they believe Miss G made a 
misrepresentation (under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012  CIDRA) when she took out the policy (as they think there were signs and symptoms 
of cruciate ligament issues prior to the start of the policy).Miss G says CG unreasonably declined her claim, and her vets view supports the case the 
dog didnt have a pre-existing condition when the policy was taken out. Which indicates she 
didnt think the dog had a pre-existing condition at the time she took out the policy  implying 
she wouldnt have needed to declare a pre-existing condition.
On the issue of the decline of the claim because of the exclusion for a pre-existing condition 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including Miss Gs vets opinion and the clinical history of Miss Gs 
dog. In their final response, CG refer to the following statement in the IPID:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
 
CG refer to the Policy Definitions which state a Pre-Existing Condition means:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not covered?
CG also refer to the General Exclusions section of the policy that includes the following:
As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and conditions that apply to Your 
coverage. We have listed below the exclusions that apply to all sections of Your 
Policy coverage
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
If we are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right to add a 
relevant endorsement(s) to your Policy in respect of these Pre-existing 
Conditions. . 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, to its cruciate ligament. Or whether there were any clinical signs or symptoms. 
Looking at the clinical history, particularly the issue in March 2018 that CG referred to when 
declining the claim, theres reference to the dog jumping up to Miss G then yelping. Which 
suggests some form of trauma. Ive also considered the published source referred to by CG 
in their response to our investigators view. CG say this confirms limping is the most 
common clinical sign (of a cruciate ligament issue) and this can be progressive or 
intermittent in a dog. However, given the emphasis on can be, this isnt definitive.
Ive also considered Miss Gs vets opinion. They say the clinical notes from the March 2018 
lameness (ROM good on hindlimbs, no evidence of stifle instability, patella lux etc) 
suggests the vet then checked for cruciate ligament rupture (and patella luxation) and there 
was no evidence of either. While Miss Gs vet acknowledges cruciate ligament disease is 
progressive and degenerative, there would have been signs including lameness and muscle 
atrophy  but there are no notes they can see to indicate this. Also, x-rays didnt indicate 
osteoarthritic changes (which the vet would have expected had the dog had cruciate 
ligament disease since March 2018).  As Miss Gs vet also carried out the surgery on the dog, then Im more persuaded by their 
view the dog didnt have cruciate ligament issues prior to the policy start (going back to 
March 2018). This would also mitigate against CGs point about the dog bunny hopping 
since birth).
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Taking all these points into account, Im not 
persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to 
decline Miss Gs claim.
Ive then considered the second issue, whether Miss G failed to declare a pre-existing 
condition when she took out the policy  thereby making a misrepresentation. Ive looked at 
the circumstances in which Miss G took out her policy. Ive considered the questions asked 
of Miss G that CG refer to in their final response, which are:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a Condition is no longer covered?
The first question assumes that a consumer would reasonably have known their pet had a 
pre-existing condition and declared it. As Ive said earlier, as Miss G says CG unreasonably 
declined her claim, and her vets view supports the case the dog didnt have a pre-existing 
condition when the policy was taken out, this indicates she didnt think the dog had a pre-
existing condition at the time she took out the policy  so she wouldnt have needed to 
declare a pre-existing condition. Ive also noted the first question doesnt specifically ask 
whether the pet has a pre-existing condition  it asks whether the consumer is looking for 
cover for a pre-existing condition. If the consumer reasonably believes their pet doesnt have 
a pre-existing condition, then they would logically answer no to the question.
Given my conclusion it wasnt reasonable for CG to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition, together with the vets view the cruciate ligament rupture wasnt linked to the dogs 
previous lameness issue, then I dont believe it was unreasonable for Miss G to think her 
dog didnt have a pre-existing condition. So, Ive concluded she didnt make a 
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, and Miss G didnt make 
a misrepresentation when she took out her policy, they should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of treatment 
and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG settle the claim, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date Miss G paid the vets bill, to the date they settle the claim.
 
And as I dont think CG can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, and Miss G 
didnt make a misrepresentation when she took out her policy, then Ive concluded theyve 
unfairly applied the two endorsements (exclusions) to the policy. So, they should remove the 
two endorsements (exclusions) from the policy.
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. Given what Miss G has told us, having her 
claim [unfairly] declined and having to settle the vets bill herself will have been distressing 
and inconvenient. Given my conclusion CG acted unfairly in declining her claim and applying the two endorsements, I think compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair. 
Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think £100 would be reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Miss Gs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
Remove the two endorsements they applied to Miss Gs policy.
Pay Miss G £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claim, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Miss G paid the vets 
bill to the date they settle the claim.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd consider theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss G how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell them Miss G accepts my final decision. If they pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman