DRN-1489688
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc applied fees and charges to his current account at a 
time of financial hardship.  
What happened
Mr D asked Lloyds to refund all the fees and charges it had applied to his current account 
over a six-year period. He said the charges were illegal because Lloyds took payment from 
his benefits and in doing so it contributed to his financial hardship. He thinks Lloyds treated 
him unfairly.
Lloyds looked into Mr Ds complaint and said it applied the charges because, on occasions, 
he had gone above his arranged overdraft limit. It explained to him that it was entitled to 
apply charges in line with the terms and conditions of his account. Lloyds also explained that 
Mr D hadnt told it about his financial hardship but it paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill 
anyway.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint for the following reasons.
In 2009, the Supreme Court decided that charges for unarranged overdrafts were not unfair. 
It explained that by spending more than an account holder has in their account, they are 
asking for an informal or unarranged overdraft. In that situation, the bank has the option to 
decline the request or accept it for the fee set out in the terms and conditions of the account.
Fees are charged when an account holder uses their overdraft whether or not it is an 
arranged overdraft. The rate must be agreed and explained in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Our investigator looked at the fees and charges and felt that Lloyds had applied 
them fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
When a customer tells their bank that theyre experiencing financial hardship, the bank 
should treat them sympathetically and positively and consider whether there are practical 
actions it ought to take, such as stopping charges. Our investigator couldnt find any 
evidence that Mr D had told Lloyds about his financial hardship until it sent its final response 
to his complaint. He also explained that Lloyds was entitled to apply fees and charges to the 
account even though Mr Ds only income was from benefits. As it wasnt aware of Mr Ds 
financial hardship before he complained, our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to have 
done anything differently.
Mr D didnt agree. He thinks Lloyds shouldnt have applied the fees and charges because it 
wouldve seen that his only income was from benefits. He also says Lloyds didnt 
communicate properly with him and it ignored his contacts.
The complaint is now with me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I sympathise with Mr Ds situation, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly Ive thought about whether Lloyds applied the fees and charges fairly to Mr Ds 
account. Mr D had an arranged overdraft and at times went above the limit. The terms and 
conditions of his account explain the fees and charges that Lloyds would apply if he used the 
arranged overdraft or went above the limit into an unarranged overdraft. Our investigator has 
explained why we cant say that charges like these are too high. Looking at the individual 
circumstances here, Lloyds has applied fees and charges in line with the agreed rates and I 
havent identified any which look incorrect. I am satisfied that Lloyds hasnt done anything 
wrong here.
The next point Ive considered is whether Lloyds shouldve been aware of Mr Ds financial 
hardship. Mr D thinks it shouldve been aware because of the benefits paid into his account. 
However, being in receipt of benefits doesnt automatically mean someone is experiencing 
financial hardship. Thats worth bearing in mind here, as Mr D wasnt always using or going 
above the overdraft limit. So, it would have looked to Lloyds like he was able to bring the 
account back within his agreed limits without the need for its help. This means I dont think 
Lloyds couldve known that he was experiencing the problems he was having from his 
account conduct alone.
Ive looked at whether Mr D told Lloyds about his situation. Unfortunately, he hasnt been 
able to find any of his emails or contacts with Lloyds on social media in which he told it about 
his financial hardship. Lloyds hasnt got any record of receiving a notification from Mr D. The 
only evidence Ive seen of Mr D letting Lloyds know is a screenshot of a webchat from when 
he raised his complaint. This only shows that he told Lloyds when he complained. Lloyds a 
cheque for £50 to Mr D as a gesture of goodwill even though theres no indication that it 
shouldve known before then about his financial hardship. So I dont think it needs to do any 
more.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Ds comments that Lloyds ignored his contacts. Ive explained 
above that neither Mr D nor Lloyds could find evidence of him contacting it about his 
financial hardship and Ive not seen any evidence of other communications by Mr D which 
Lloyds mightve ignored. In the absence of any evidence of a shortfall in service, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
I realise Mr D will be disappointed by my decision but in the circumstances of this complaint I 
dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman