DRN-3125932
The complaint
Miss S complains that an error by Allpay Limited prevented her from using her prepaid card.
What happened
Miss S holds a prepaid card, which is issued and administered by Allpay. It is funded by a 
government scheme. A PIN must be entered in relation to purchases exceeding £30.
On 8 January 2021, Miss S asked Allpay to send her a replacement prepaid card as her 
original card had been lost. Allpay sent Miss S a replacement card, which was attached to a 
letter explaining how she could activate her card, retrieve, check and change her PIN. 
On 14 January 2021 Miss S telephoned Allpay to activate her replacement card. She 
checked her account balance during this telephone call. But Allpay said Miss S didnt 
retrieve her PIN.
On 15 January 2021, Miss S attempted to use her new card to pay for groceries. But she 
was informed by the merchant that her payment had been declined. Miss S had sufficient 
funds to cover the cost of her groceries. So, she was concerned about why her payment 
hadnt been authorised. She also had to use an alternative card to pay for her groceries, 
which she said led to difficulties when paying her rent and bills from that account.
When Miss S contacted Allpay to query why her payment had been declined, she was 
informed that this was due to her entering an incorrect PIN. But Miss S disputed this  she 
said shed used the same PIN that had been in use with the previous card shed lost. 
Miss S requested that Allpay transfer money from her prepaid card to her personal account 
to replace the funds shed used to pay for her groceries. But, after making enquiries with the 
government scheme, Allpay said it couldnt do what Miss S was requesting because the 
terms of the prepaid card prevented it from doing so.
Miss S contacted Allpay again on 22 January 2021 to complain about how it had dealt with 
her funds transfer request. And, on 25 January 2021, she ordered another replacement card 
because she advised that she was still experiencing difficulties in using her card.
After Allpay investigated Miss S complaint it issued its final response, dated 2 February 
2021. Within its final response, Allpay explained that it hadnt changed Miss S PIN from the 
one in use with her previous prepaid card. And it stated that its records showed the payment 
Miss S had attempted on 15 January 2021 had been declined as a result of the PIN being 
entered incorrectly. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Allpay also confirmed that 
it couldnt transfer funds from Miss S prepaid card as shed requested.
Being dissatisfied with Allpays response to her complaint, Miss S referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. But they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded that Allpay had treated Miss S unfairly. So, they didnt 
tell it to do anything further to resolve her complaint. But Miss S disagreed with our 
investigators view of her complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss S experienced here. Im sure she has suffered 
some upset and inconvenience in dealing with Allpay and for that Im sorry. However, my 
role is to assess whether I think Allpay made a mistake, or treated Miss S unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right.  
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Miss S and Allpay, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss S told our investigator that her pre-paid card was declined when attempting to pay for 
groceries on 15 January. I accept this happened and that it caused Miss S to have to use an 
alternative payment method. It isnt in dispute that she had sufficient funds in her account to 
cover the purchase she wanted to make. So, a lack of funds isnt the reason why Miss S 
payment was declined.
Ill explain at the outset that, for me to arrive at the conclusion that Allpay was responsible for 
Miss S being unable to use her prepaid card, Id need to be satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that it either changed her PIN or made an error which prevented the use of her 
prepaid card on the relevant date. 
Allpay has shown our investigator the correspondence it would have sent Miss S with her 
replacement card. Having also seen this correspondence Im satisfied that Miss S would 
have received clear instructions with her replacement card explaining how she could activate 
her card, check her account balance and access PIN facilities. So, I think it was made clear 
to Miss S how she could check or change her PIN.
Allpay has explained  and I have no reason to doubt what its said  that its policy when 
issuing a replacement prepaid card is such that the PIN doesnt change unless requested by 
the cardholder. Allpay has also provided evidence to our service which shows Miss S card 
activity. 
The card activity log Ive seen shows that Miss S activated her replacement prepaid card on 
14 January. The records also demonstrate that she requested confirmation of her account 
balance within 10 minutes of activating her new card. Based on the available records, Im 
satisfied that Miss S didnt request a new PIN at the time that she requested a replacement 
card. So, Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Miss S would have needed to use 
the same PIN number in order to use her replacement card.Miss S believes that Allpay changed her PIN. But I havent seen any evidence confirming 
this happened. The card activity log shows all changes that were applied to Miss S account 
such as the card replacement request, the card activation date, the balance enquiry request, 
a customer profile update and a PIN retrieval request. And I think the card activity log would 
show that the PIN had been changed if that had happened. Based on the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that the PIN for Miss S replacement card remained the same as the 
number that was in use for her lost card.
Theres no evidence that a technical issue or system error involving Allpay caused difficulties 
when Miss S used her prepaid card to pay for her groceries on 15 January. So, I cant fairly 
find that the PIN didnt work as a result of an error on Allpays part.
Allpay has suggested that Miss Ss payment was declined as a result of her entering an 
incorrect PIN. But Miss S doesnt accept this. Based on the available evidence, Im 
persuaded that, if Miss S didnt enter an incorrect PIN, the only other reason that could have 
led to the payment being declined would be if thered been an error involving the merchant. 
Our investigator suggested that its possible Miss S prepaid card didnt work as a result of a 
problem with the merchants payment terminal. In the overall circumstances of this 
complaint, I think that suggestion offers a plausible explanation here. And, if this was the 
reason the payment was declined, this wouldnt be something that I could hold Allpay 
responsible for. Its something that would have been beyond its control.
Miss S told our investigator that, when she contacted Allpay after the problems she 
experienced in trying to use her card to pay for groceries, she received conflicting 
information about why her payment had been declined. Our service requested the relevant 
call recordings from Allpay on numerous occasions to hear what was said during these calls. 
But they havent been provided. I therefore havent been able to listen to any calls that Miss 
S made to Allpay. I cant speculate on the reasons why Allpay hasnt been able to provide 
our service with copies of the requested call recordings. And I can only decide this complaint 
based on the available evidence.  
I can appreciate that Miss S may feel that this complaint cant properly be considered by our 
service in the absence of the missing call recordings. But Id like to reassure her that Im 
satisfied I have sufficient information to enable me to reach a final decision here. I also think 
its important to mention that the issues with Miss S PIN occurred prior to the telephone calls 
she made to Allpay. So, the information that may have been given to Miss S during 
telephone discussions with Allpay didnt result in her card being declined.
Ill turn now to Miss S concerns that Allpay hasnt transferred funds from her prepaid card to 
the account she used to pay for her groceries to cover the shortfall in that account as a result 
of that purchase. I can see that she asked Allpay to do this on her behalf. But, after making 
enquiries with the government scheme provider directly, Allpay said that the terms of the 
prepaid card prevented a transfer.
The funds are issued and placed onto the prepaid card by the government. The only thing 
Allpay can do is to administer the purchase transactions a cardholder wishes to make. So, it 
isnt possible for Allpay to transfer money from the card to another account and this explains 
why it couldnt do what Miss S was asking it to. Im satisfied that, in contacting the 
government scheme provider on Miss S behalf, Allpay did what it could to try and help her. 
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions that apply to Miss S account. They outline 
clearly the circumstances in which a cardholders funds can be used. This doesnt include a 
transfer from the prepaid card to another account held by Miss S. So, Im not persuaded Allpay made an error when it informed Miss S that it was prevented from actioning her 
request.  
Allpay has stated that the funds that Miss S couldnt use to pay for her groceries remain in 
her prepaid card account. So, she still has the benefit of using those funds  they werent 
lost as a result of her being unable to use her prepaid card on 15 January.
I appreciation Miss S feels very strongly about her complaint and Ive carefully considered 
everything shes said. But in the overall circumstances of this complaint I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that Allpay changed Miss S PIN or made an error that prevented 
her from using her card on 15 January. So, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Allpay to do anything further to resolve it. 
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Allpay informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss S any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman