DRN-1689599
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited was irresponsible when it offered
him loans. He asks that it refunds interest and charges and removes negative information
about the loans from his credit file.
What happened
Mr L took out four loans with Evergreen Finance between August 2016 and September
2018. Each loan was repayable in instalments over six months. Mr L says Evergreen
Finance didnt carry out affordability checks. He says the payments were unaffordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said given the
amounts of the loans and what Evergreen Finance knew about Mr Ls circumstances at the
time, it wouldnt have been proportionate for it to ask for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable.
Mr L didnt agree. He said he had high levels of debt at the time, including two overdrafts 
totalling over £2,000 and three credit card accounts which were at their credit limits (totalling
about £10,000). He said he had a history of excessive use of short term loans, late
payments and payment arrangements. He said his credit report shows this.
I didn't agree with all of the adjudicator's recommendations, so I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties to explain what I thought should happen and why. I said Evergreen Finance 
shouldn't have offered Mr L any of the loans as the information it had suggested the 
borrowing wasn't sustainable.
Evergreen Finance didn't agree. It said its checks were proportionate given the early stage 
of the lending relationship. It said its checks were automated and it was unrealistic for it to 
review each line of a credit file and this isn't required by regulations. Evergreen Finance said 
while there were loans outstanding when Mr L took out loan 1 these were due to be repaid 
prior to any repayments for loan 1.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Evergreen Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest that Evergreen Finance should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for a customer. Such factors include thecustomers income  particularly a lower income  the amount of the loan repayments and
the time over which the loan is to be repaid, and the number and frequency of loans and the
time over which the customer has been given loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the
borrowing has become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come a point where
the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was 
unsustainable.
I'd also note here that Evergreen Finance was required to establish whether Mr L could
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict
pounds and pence calculation.
Loans 1 to 3: August 2016 to February 2017
When he took out loans 1 and 2 Mr L told Evergreen Finance his monthly income was about
£2,250 and his expenditure was about £850. Evergreen Finance increased its estimate of Mr 
L's expenditure to £1,600 after its credit check. Mr L repaid loan 1 early, before taking out 
loan 2. The largest monthly instalment was £182.
Loan 2 was repaid in January 2017. When Mr L applied for loan 3 he told Evergreen Finance 
his monthly income was about £1,900 and his expenditure was about £1,200, which 
Evergreen Finance increased to about £1,800. The largest monthly instalment was £88.
Based on the information Mr L provided, the instalments appeared affordable. But I think the 
results of Evergreen Finance's credit checks should have alerted it to a possible problem. 
The results of the credit check carried out by Evergreen Finance before loan 1 showed Mr L 
regularly used, and had recently repaid a number of, short term loans. He had five 
outstanding loans with short term and instalment lenders, one of these was in arrears. The 
outstanding balance of these loans was over £2,000. Mr L also had overdrafts and credit 
card debts: one of his credit card accounts was over the limit.
The results of Evergreen Finance's credit check before loan 3 was similar. He had four 
outstanding loans with short term and instalment lenders with a balance of nearly £10,000. 
Some of these loans were repayable in instalments, which made them appear more 
affordable on a monthly basis. But I think the number of recently repaid and outstanding 
short term loans indicate that Mr L was having difficulty managing his money.
Evergreen Finance says it increased Mr Ls stated expenditure to take account of 
information from its credit check and to bring it in line with average expenditure. But it 
needed to do more than just consider whether the repayments were affordable on a pounds 
and pence basis. It needed to establish that Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable 
manner. I think the information it received about Mr L's short term loans and other debts 
suggested further borrowing wasn't sustainable. 
Evergreen Finance says at this early stage of the lending relationship its checks are 
automated and it can't be expected to have someone read every line of a credit report. I'm 
not suggesting that. But information about Mr L's existing credit commitments and his use of 
short term debt is relevant to its lending decision. Evergreen Finance knew Mr L had credit 
commitments in excess of what he'd declared when it increased his monthly expenditure to 
account for this. While Evergreen Finance says Mr L's short term loans were due to be 
repaid before the first instalment for loan 1, I'm not sure this helps to establish that the 
lending was sustainable. I think it could suggest that Mr L was borrowing in order to meet 
repayments for his existing credit commitments. I don't think it's reasonable for Evergreen 
Finance to say it didn't need to take the information it had about Mr L's use of credit into 
account when making its lending decision. Loan 4: September 2018
Loan 3 was repaid in August 2017. Mr L took out loan 4 over 12 months later. Mr L told
Evergreen Finance his monthly income was about £2,100 and his expenditure was about
£850. The largest monthly instalment was £160.
There was a gap of more than a year between Mr L repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 4. In 
some circumstances, it would be reasonable for Evergreen Finance to assume Mr L had 
recovered from any problems he'd had managing his money. However, Evergreen Finance 
did a credit check and I think the results should have alerted it to a problem. 
The credit check showed Mr L had nine loans outstanding with short term and instalment 
lenders. He had a payment arrangement in place for at least one of these. The outstanding 
balance of these loans was over £8,000. Mr L was over the limit on two credit card accounts.
In light of this information, I don't think it was reasonable for Evergreen Finance to think 
further borrowing was sustainable. 
Putting things right
Evergreen Finance shouldnt have given Mr L any of these loans. If its sold any 
outstanding debt it should buy it back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If 
Evergreen Finance isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results below. Evergreen Finance should:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, fees and charges 
on all loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything its already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L which were
considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the payments, to the
date the complaint is settled.
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any outstanding loans, and
treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr L having made overpayments then it should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. It should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Mr L. However if there is still an outstanding balance then
it should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. It shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal its already written-off.
E) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen Finance to deduct tax from this interest. It
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Evergreen Finance London Limited to 
make the payments and take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman