DRN-1952197
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service provided by Assurant General Insurance Limited when 
dealing with his mobile phone insurance claim.
What happened
Mr N purchased mobile phone insurance with Assurant General Insurance Limited. LSG 
dealt with Mr Ns claim. For ease of reference I have referred LSG throughout this final 
decision.
The policy terms and conditions explained:
Replacements
(1) Where we replace the mobile phone the replacement may be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device. 
On 21 January 2020 Mr N reported the phone stolen, and a replacement phone was sent on 
24 January. Mr N complained about the phone being a remanufactured handset. On 28 
January LSG informed Mr N that the replacement handset had been provided in line with the 
terms and conditions of his policy. 
On 29 January Mr N complained to LSG about the e-sim card functionality of his phone not 
working. He was asked to send the phone to LSG for investigation. On 4 February LSG 
informed Mr N that their own testing hadnt found any faults with the phone, and so it would 
be returned to him. Mr N complained about this decision. LSG first responded to this 
complaint on 6 February saying their engineers couldnt validate the faults, and so they 
werent able to do anything more in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr N took his phone to a specialist store to have the fault investigated. He was provided with 
a report which he sent to LSG on 8 February. 
On 18 February Mr N contacted LSG and informed them that he had contacted his network 
provider about the issues with the phone, and theyd provided him with a new phone. On 28 
February LSG wrote to Mr N offering £75 compensation in recognition of the shortfall in 
service provided. 
Mr N was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The investigator found that LSG shouldve done more to investigate 
the issues with Mr Ns phone. The investigator also found that the impact on Mr N was 
greater than what LSG had recognised, and increased the compensation amount to £150. 
Mr N wasnt happy with this outcome, saying that his work is commission based, and he lost 
half his usual salary because of the time spent dealing with the faulty handset, and also not 
having access to a fully functioning phone for a month.
LSG also disagreed with the investigators findings saying the insurance policy is designed 
for personal use- not business. So it wouldnt be reasonable to compensate Mr N for the 
losses suffered in the context of his work. LSG also explained that the e-card functionality 
was raised as a complaint on 29 January, and sorted on 18 February when Mr Ns service 
provider gave him a new phone. LSG said the period of loss was two weeks, which £75 is 
reasonable compensation for. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that LSG couldve handled this claim better. The dispute now relates to the 
award of compensation that should be paid in recognition of what went wrong, and the 
impact on Mr N. 
There are different types of compensation wed ask a business to pay when something has 
gone wrong. Mr N is claiming for both direct financial losses (the lost commission), and also 
for the trouble and upset caused to him in having to make calls to his service provider, and 
the phone specialist shop, when trying resolve issues with his phone. 
Mr N has explained that his work is commission based, and heavily reliant on using his 
phone to make appointments, communicate with clients, and keep track of different priorities. 
Mr N has referred to lost commission because he didnt have access to a fully functioning 
phone for almost a month. 
In order for this service to ask a business to pay compensation for direct losses, wed need 
to be satisfied that the losses claimed are as a direct result of a service failing caused by the 
business. Although its not disputed that LSG couldve handled the claim better, I dont think 
Mr Ns commission is fairly a loss which stems directly from what went wrong. I appreciate 
commission payments make up a large part of Mr Ns monthly income, but this income is 
speculative- not guaranteed. There are other factors which could impact on the amount of 
commission Mr N could earn each month. So I dont think it would be fair for these losses to 
be covered.  
LSG say that Mr Ns policy was designed to cover personal use- so they shouldnt be 
expected to cover any loss arising from Mr Ns work. For the reasons explained I dont think 
the lost commission is a type of loss LSG should have to compensate Mr N for. 
Mr N has also complained about the time he has spent dealing with the issues arising from 
his faulty phone. I agree that Mr N was caused undue stress and upset in contacting several 
different third parties, and going to a specialist store to obtain a report, to understand the 
fault with his phone. This couldve been avoided if LSGs own investigation had identified the 
fault with Mr Ns phone earlier, and they had taken steps to put things right. So I think its fair 
that Mr N is compensated for the trouble and upset experienced because of what went 
wrong. 
LSG say that the period of loss was two weeks - not the one month Mr N is claiming for. Mr 
N has referenced the one month starting from when his phone was reported stolen to LSG 
on 21 January. I can appreciate it mustve been an upsetting time for Mr N in firstly dealing 
with the emotional impact of having his phone stolen, and then receiving a faulty handset 
from LSG. But LSG dealt with the claim promptly, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, when sending a replacement handset. So Im in agreement with LSGs comments that compensation should fairly be considered from the period 29 January, when 
the issues with the e-sim card functionality were first reported. 
Having considered the timing of events after this date, I think there was a delay by LSG in 
dealing with the claim promptly. LSG advised Mr N on 4 February that their engineers 
couldnt validate the faults. The timing of this update was reasonable, given Mr N had only 
contacted them a few days earlier. But Mr N then provided LSG with a report detailing the 
issues with his phone on 8 February. It doesnt look like LSG did anything between this date 
and 18 February when Mr N made contact again to advise that hed dealt with the issue 
himself by contacting his service provider.
LSG say that they wouldve offered a replacement phone to Mr N, but Mr Ns service 
provider had already done this and so there wasnt anything more for them to do. But Mr N 
had already provided LSG with the opportunity to investigate the fault with his phone. He 
also provided a copy of the report from the phone specialist hed spoken to. LSG had 
sufficient time to consider this, and update Mr N on what theyd be doing. But it wasnt until 
Mr N made contact with LSG on 18 February that they next discussed the claim. 
The investigator recommended LSG increase the compensation amount to £150. I think this 
amount is fair in the circumstances. This amount recognises the cost of making phone calls, 
discussing the fault with a specialist in store, and sending information to LSG as requested. 
It also recognises the delay in the claim being dealt with, and the lack of proactive 
involvement by LSG from when the report was sent to them on 8 February. 
Putting things right
While LSG arent responsible for the loss of commission claimed by Mr N, they did cause Mr 
N frustration and inconvenience by their failure to deal with the claim as efficiently as they 
couldve in the circumstances. The investigator has recommended a payment of £150 
(minus any compensation already paid) to recognise this. 
I think this compensation is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr N £150 (minus any compensation 
already paid) in recognition of the impact on him.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ns complaint. Assurant General Insurance 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman