DRN-2353810
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Financial PLC trading as Tesco Bank misled him in 
relation to the 0% introductory rate period on purchases when he opened a new credit card.
 
What happened
Mr C opened a new credit card with Tesco Bank in September 2019. Tesco Bank has sent 
us a copy of the credit agreement Mr C accepted and it says purchases would be charged at 
0% interest for the first three months from account opening, then move to the standard rate. 
The credit agreement says balance transfers and money transfers completed in the first 90 
days of the account opening would be charged at an introductory rate of 18 months from the 
date of account opening. 
Mr C has told us that when he looked at the promotional literature and credit agreement he 
understood the 0% introductory rate on purchases made in the first 90 days would last for 
the same period as balance transfers. I note Mr Cs complaint form says the introductory rate 
on balance transfers lasted 26 months, but his credit agreement with Tesco Bank says it 
lasts 18 months. 
Mr C made purchases in the first 90 days but was subsequently charged interest on them. 
Mr C says he had to make other arrangements to avoid paying unnecessary interest on the 
purchase balance. Mr C says hes paid around £120 in interest as a result of the misleading 
information provided by Tesco Bank when he opened his credit card. 
Tesco Bank looked at Mr Cs complaint but didnt agree it had provided misleading 
information to Mr C. Tesco Bank also said it had notified Mr C of the interest that was due to 
be charged before it was applied. Mr C referred his complaint to our service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They didnt find that Tesco Bank had provided misleading 
information to Mr C when he opened his credit card and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C 
asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C was genuinely surprised at being charged interest on his purchases after 
the initial 90 day period expired. I dont doubt what Mr C has told us about how he thought 
interest was applied to the credit card. But I can only uphold a complaint and award 
compensation if I find a business has made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly. Whilst 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I havent found that the information Tesco Bank provided about 
how the introductory period works was misleading. 
Tesco Bank hasnt been able to supply a copy of the specific promotional literature Mr C saw 
before he applied, but it has sent us copies of similar offers it made at the time. Tesco Bank 
says the wording is in line with the promotional information Mr C was sent. I can see that 
different types of transactions are subject to introductory rates. But the promotional literature 
gives time limits for the different introductory rates on offer. 
The credit agreement Mr C accepted set out the full details of how interest is applied to the 
credit card. Ive looked at the credit agreement and considered whether the information it 
provides is unclear or misleading. Ive paid particular attention to Mr Cs comments that he 
thought the purchases he made in the first three months would be subject to the introductory 
rate for the same period as his balance transfers. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied the information Tesco Bank gave in its credit 
agreement was clear. Under Introductory Rates it says Purchases for 3 months from 
account opening. The credit agreement also says the introductory rate applies to Balance 
transfers for 18 months from account opening (for transfers made within 90 days of opening 
your account. I havent seen any reference from Tesco Bank to the introductory rate for 
purchases extending beyond the first three months. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied Tesco Bank provided clear information about 
the nature of the interest rates it agreed to apply to his credit card. I havent found grounds to 
tell Tesco Bank to refund the interest Mr C has paid. 
Whilst Mr Cs complaint focuses on the information he was given at the point he opened the 
credit card, Tesco Bank did notify him before the introductory rate for purchases expired. I 
havent found that Tesco Bank sought to mislead Mr C or misrepresent the nature of its 
introductory rates. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman