DRN-2184928
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Intelligent Advisory Services Limited (Intelligent) as it didnt identify 
itself as a broker when he took out his home insurance policy. He says had he known, he 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and wouldve gone directly to the insurer. Mr A is unhappy 
with the £50 cancellation fee he was charged. 
What happened
On 25 July 2020, Mr A bought the policy using his mobile phone through a comparison 
website.
He did further research and realised Intelligent wasnt the insurer but a broker. He used 
Intelligents online webchat service to ask whether the business was a broker. He didnt get 
an immediate response but did on 27 July 2020. Intelligent confirmed that it was a broker 
and Mr A asked for the policy to be cancelled immediately. He was told there would be a £50 
charge for the cancellation. 
Mr A brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said Intelligent hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr A disagreed. He said Intelligent werent transparent enough when he initially took out the 
policy. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide is whether there was enough information provided by 
Intelligent to make Mr A aware he was taking the policy out with a broker rather than directly 
with an insurer. 
Ive looked at the information that was presented to Mr A prior to issuing a quote or choosing 
to buy the policy. From a copy of a screenshot, I can see he was asked to review the cover 
details. This said:
Review Cover Details
It is important that you understand the cover provided to you before you 
proceed. Please click the links below to view your cover limits, excesses and 
any endorsements that apply to this policy.
At this point, the terms of business were also included for review by Mr A. The terms of 
business provides details of Intelligent and how it operated as a business. The information 
also included the cancellation fees that applied. 
Mr A was then asked to complete a declaration that hed read and understood the cover, any 
applicable endorsements and the policy terms and conditions with the terms of business. 
The terms of business says:
About Us
Intelligent Insurance is a trading name of Intelligent Advisory Services Ltd.
We are an intermediary, acting as your agent in respect of selling, servicing and 
administering your policy. We act as agents of the insurer in collecting client 
premiums and handling refunds.
Under the fees section, it says:
Administration and cancellation
If you cancel the policy within 14 days from the day of purchase or the day on which 
you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later, and providing you 
have not made a claim, you will receive a full refund of the premium. A cancellation 
fee of £50 will apply.
Mr A bought the policy after hed confirmed hed read and understood the cover he was 
taking out. There was enough information and prompts before he took the policy out to 
enable him to check the documentation and with whom he was taking the insurance. The 
terms of business was clear enough and informed him that Intelligent wasnt the insurer and 
what fees would apply if the policy was cancelled within 14 days of him taking it out. Im 
satisfied Mr A had enough information before he agreed to take the policy put that Intelligent 
wasnt the insurer.
He bought the policy through a comparison website and as such Intelligent were required to 
pay a non-refundable fee of £55.50 for the service provided through their website. I 
appreciate Mr A thinks this isnt fair. But the £50 fee wasnt disproportionate to the service 
that was provided and from the evidence provided by Intelligent, theres no element of profit. 
Im satisfied that the cancellation fee of £50 was in line with the guidelines. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Intelligent did anything wrong. Mr A was aware from previous 
experience that he wanted to take out his insurance with the insurer directly. As such, I 
wouldve expected him to read the relevant documentation he was signposted to, prior to 
taking out the policy, and taken time to understand what he was taking out and with whom. I 
appreciate he only found out later through doing his own research that the policy wasnt with 
the insurer. But thats not because Intelligent made an error or didnt provide clear enough 
information. As such, I dont think Intelligent needs to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Intelligent Advisory 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman