DRN-3095869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way Vitality Health Limited handled a claim Mr G made 
under Mrs Gs corporate private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G was a member of a corporate private medical insurance policy and Mr G was covered 
under the contract.
In July 2020, Mr Gs consultant surgeon recommended that Mr G undergo knee surgery in 
two-stages. However, as a result of the impact of Covid-19 on patient numbers, private 
medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. This meant 
that Mr Gs surgery was delayed.
Subsequently, in early October 2020, Mrs G called Vitality, as she was leaving her 
employment on 4 November 2020 and cover under the corporate policy would therefore end. 
Mr G also got in touch with Vitality to check whether his treatment would still be covered by 
the policy, as his planned treatment wouldnt be able to be performed by the date the cover 
ended.
Vitality told Mr G that the policy terms stated that once cover under the policy ended, no 
further treatment would be paid for. This meant that after 4 November 2020, neither stage of 
Mr Gs treatment would be covered. However, ultimately, on 9 November 2020, Vitality 
confirmed it could look into making a discretionary contribution towards the cost of the first 
stage of Mr Gs surgery of either £2000 if the surgery cost below £5000, or £5000 if the 
surgery cost more than that. Or it said Mr and Mrs G could takeout personal continuation 
cover, which would mean the costs of the surgery would be met. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Vitalitys offer of contribution and the service itd provided. 
So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Vitality told us that Mr and Mrs G had taken out continuation cover on 1 December 2020, 
with an applicable excess of £1000. It also said that it had paid for the next stage of his 
treatment. 
Our investigator didnt think Vitality had done anything wrong which it needed to put right. 
She felt that under the policy terms, Vitality had been entitled to decline to pay for any 
treatment once cover under the corporate plan had ended. She considered that given the 
circumstances, it had been reasonable for it to take some time to decide whether or not to 
pay a discretionary contribution towards treatment costs. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. In summary, Mr G said that Vitality had failed to advise him as to 
the mistaken assumption hed made about when cover would end. This had prevented him 
from making an earlier commitment to the treatment, which he said couldve been completed 
within the insured period. This meant he wouldnt have had to wait for a discretionary offer. 
Vitality had provided poor service and had failed to respond to his complaint in a timely way. 
It had passed him from pillar to post and should be providing compensation for his losses. 
Vitality had hidden behind the pandemic as an excuse for providing poor service.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Vitality has treated Mr and Mrs G fairly. Ill explain why.
In this case, theres no dispute that Vitality had previously authorised Mr G to undergo knee 
treatment. Theres also no dispute that the consultant surgeon had outlined the treatment Mr 
G required several months before it could be scheduled. However, Vitality doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
Vitalitys control. So I dont think I could fairly hold Vitality responsible for the fact that Mr G 
had to wait several months before he could undergo treatment, due to the impact of Covid-
19.
Mr and Mrs G were insured under a corporate policy, as a benefit of Mrs Gs employment. 
The continuance of cover under the policy was dependent on Mrs Gs continuing 
employment with the corporate cover-holder. Once Mrs G left that employment though, 
neither she nor Mr G were entitled to any further cover under that policy. Vitalitys notes 
suggest that Mrs G first let it know about her planned employment change on 5 October 
2020  around a month before she was due to leave. I appreciate Mr G hadnt been able to 
undergo surgery prior to this point, so I can understand why he was worried about the fact 
that if he underwent surgery after 4 November 2020, it might not be covered.
Ive looked closely at the terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy, because these formed the basis of 
their contract with Vitality. Page 36 sets out the following term:
Once your cover under this plan ends, no further benefit will be payable for any treatment
received after that date by you or any of your insured dependants. This will be the case even 
if:
 a claim started before your cover ended, or
 you or any of your insured dependants are in the middle of treatment, or
 you have previously notified us of further treatment that is due to take place after your
  cover has ended.
I think this term makes it clear then that once cover under a policy ends, Vitality wont pay for 
any further treatment, even if a claim is already in progress, as was the case here. So on a 
strict interpretation of the contract, once Mrs G left her employment, Vitality was entitled to 
decline to pay any further costs at all, unless Mr and Mrs G took up a personal continuation 
policy. Im pleased to see the opportunity to take out personal continuation cover was offered 
to Mr and Mrs G as one potential option, as Id reasonably expect it to be in circumstances 
like these.
However, in recognition of the impact of Covid-19 on private treatment times, Vitality agreed 
to make a discretionary contribution offer outside of its policy terms. This meant it was under 
no obligation to do so. This means I think its offer to either contribute £2000 if costs were 
less than £5000, or £5000 if treatment cost more than this amount, was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Vitalitys potential to make such an offer was first explained to Mr G on 16 October 2020, although it wasnt agreed and confirmed until 9 November 2020. I accept 
that this was a time period of around three weeks and I dont doubt it was frustrating for Mr 
and Mrs G, when they were weighing up potential options. Its unfortunate a decision 
couldnt have been given sooner.
I dont think I could fairly find such a delay caused Mr G to lose out though. While he says 
Vitality misled him as to the end date of cover, which meant he couldnt secure treatment 
within the insured period, I dont agree. I say that first because Mrs G told Vitality shed be 
leaving her job on 4 November 2020. So I think it was reasonable for Vitality to consider this 
as the end date of cover. Actually, it seems Mrs Gs scheme administrators didnt remove 
her from the corporate plan until around 30 November 2020  but that seems to have been 
entirely outside of Vitalitys control and wasnt down to any error on Vitalitys part. 
Mr G provided Vitality with evidence from the consultant surgeons office that the treatment 
couldnt take place before 4 November 2020. Based on the information Mrs G had given it 
about her end date then, I dont think it was unfair for Vitality to conclude treatment couldnt 
happen while Mr and Mrs G were still covered. And Mr G was given a decision about the 
discretionary contribution on 9 November 2020. So I think he was in a position to make an 
informed decision about whether or not to accept the contribution; take out personal 
continuation cover or have the treatment on the NHS following that date. Id add that Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr G couldve undergone treatment while the corporate policy was in 
force.
Overall, while I understand Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the service they received from 
Vitality, Im not persuaded it made any errors in its handling of the claim or service which has 
caused them to lose out or led to them suffering significant trouble or upset. I think it offered 
Mr G reasonable and appropriate options to ensure hed be at least partly covered for his 
surgery and it provided quotes for continuation cover if Mr G wanted the treatment to be fully 
funded by Vitality. This means that Im not directing Vitality to pay Mr and Mrs G any 
compensation or to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman