DRN-2227548
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) unfairly defaulted her 
account in May 2018 when she was suffering from a mental health condition.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss Cs account was defaulted in May 2018. I appreciate that she was going 
through a very tough time and had been in and out of hospital, which subsequently 
resulted in the diagnosis of her health condition in August 2018. But Miss C didnt tell 
Natwest that she was suffering from poor mental health or had been in hospital prior 
to them defaulting her account. And having listened to the phone calls she had with 
the bank, I dont think there was any reason for Natwest to have suspected that she 
was suffering from poor health to such an extent that she unable to manage her 
finances or needed extra support. So there was nothing to lead them to believe that 
Miss C required additional help and support to assist with her vulnerabilities. 
I can see that Natwest discussed options for repayment plans and offered to take 
Miss C through an income and expenditure assessment to determine what she could 
afford to repay. But Miss C said she was not in a position to go through this process 
when she spoke with the bank, so they placed a hold on her account until 7 May 
2018 and said she would need to set up a repayment plan before then, as well as 
warning her that the account would be defaulted if she failed to do this. Miss C didnt 
get back in contact with Natwest to discuss a repayment plan, so the account was 
subsequently defaulted. In the circumstances, Im satisfied they have treated her 
fairly, and with forbearance and due consideration. 
I appreciate that Miss C was going through a very difficult time with her mental 
health, but Natwest are under an obligation to report accurate information to the 
credit referencing agencies regarding their customers accounts. So Im not 
persuaded theyve acted unfairly by failing to remove the default notice from her 
credit file. 
Im very sorry to hear of the health problems Miss C experienced. But in the circumstances, I 
am unable to say that Natwest has done anything wrong. So I will not be directing them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman