DRN-3744112
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost to what he believes was a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
In 2016, Mr C began to trade with two merchants Ill refer to as Merchant One and 
Merchant Two. He made a series of payments to each merchant, using both his 
NatWest debit card and credit card, between August and September 2016.
Mr C says Merchant Two then contacted him to say their licence had been revoked 
and he had to pay a fee to withdraw his funds  but he refused. Thats when he 
realised something was wrong.
In January 2022, Mr C complained to NatWest (via a professional representative) 
that the payments were fraudulent. It didnt agree to refund him as hed authorised 
them. It also said he was too late to raise a chargeback claim. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred the matter to our service. He said 
NatWest should have identified the payments as suspicious. And, if it had intervened 
appropriately, that would have prevented the fraud.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think the payments to 
Merchant One looked suspicious given Mr Cs general account activity. And there 
werent any regulatory warnings issued about the merchant at the time.
They didnt think intervention on any payments to Merchant Two would have caused 
NatWest concern as the merchant were registered with the FCA. 
The investigator also said Mr C was out of time to raise a chargeback claim. And they 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr C appealed the investigators view. He said the payments to Merchant One 
should have flagged as suspicious, and a Section 75 claim about the credit card 
payments should have succeeded. He also said NatWest should have known 
Merchant Two was a scam  but has since acknowledged those payments are 
unlikely to be refunded given the merchants regulatory status at the time. 
The case has since been passed to me. Ive explained to Mr C that, as he hasnt 
raised a Section 75 claim, I cant consider whether it would have succeeded; he will 
need to raise a claim with NatWest in the first instance if he wants to pursue that 
point.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the following reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2009, in force at the relevant time, Id 
expect NatWest to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
Mr C initially said the payments were authorised. He later said the last few payments 
werent authorised. I place most weight on his initial testimony. His submissions also 
include an email showing him requesting one of the payments he said was 
unauthorised. So on balance, Im persuaded the payments were all authorised  
meaning the starting position is that Mr C is liable. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If NatWest ought to have identified a fraud risk but failed to 
intervene appropriately, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to 
hold it liable.
We expect banks to have watchlists in place to help monitor for potential scammers, 
using alerts from the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) 
and the UKs financial services regulator (the FCA). There weren't any warnings 
about Merchant One at the time of these payments. So I wouldnt have expected 
NatWest to have been concerned based on the payment destination alone.
There were some warnings about Merchant Two on IOSCO, about it offering services 
in foreign jurisdictions without the right authority. But it did have FCA authority to 
provide its services within the UK. So I think that would have outweighed any 
concerns about the international warnings. 
I appreciate the level of the payments from the current account was high. But looking 
at Mr Cs account history, it wasn't uncommon for him to make multiple payments, 
including high-value payments, in one day. His account activity shows multiple 
instances of him making payments around £10,000 to £20,000, alongside numerous 
other payments on the same date. So it would seem in character, rather than unusual 
activity indicative of fraud, for Mr C to pay around that amount in a day or so. 
That said, there was a point where I think the value of payments reached a level 
which NatWest ought to have found unusual  when Mr C paid £45,000 over five 
payments in one day. NatWest's records don't capture whether it intervened at this 
point (or any other point). So I've considered whether it's likely that appropriate 
intervention would have prevented any fraudulent losses.
All five payments went to Merchant Two  who, as mentioned, were properly 
authorised by the FCA. They appeared on the FCA register and were also regulated 
in Cyprus. So I don't think further enquiries by NatWest would have led it to think 
Mr C was being scammed. To conclude otherwise would mean concluding that 
NatWest ought to have identified concerns before its own regulator.
Following this, the payments weren't as high - and were mainly going to Merchant 
Two. So I wouldn't have expected NatWest to have intervened further.
The payments on Mr C's credit card were lower; the most he sent in one day was 
£5,000, to Merchant One. This was after making a few smaller payments to Merchant 
One over a month before - and receiving credit from them. So I wouldn't have 
expected NatWest to have been concerned about his credit card payments.
As our investigator explained, by the time of raising his complaint in 2022, Mr C 
would have been too late to raise a chargeback claim about any of these payments. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr C. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not 
persuaded its fair to hold NatWest liable for his loss. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman