DRN-4406160
The complaint
Mr G has complained about RAC Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that it declined his claim 
under his Legal Care Plus insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr Gs car broke down in 2019 and his car was recovered to a garage for repair. The repair 
of his car took a long time and before it was returned to him the car was taken from the 
repairing garage without Mr Gs consent. But when Mr G approached the RAC about this it 
turned down his claim. It explained that Mr Gs policy only came into force the year after he 
took his car in for repair, so it wasnt covered under the policy. And as Mr G remained 
unhappy about this he complained to the RAC and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and made a number of enquiries with the RAC 
but ultimately she didnt think it had done anything wrong. Although she sympathised with 
the difficult position Mr G had found himself in she thought it was clear that the policy was 
taken out after the initial event (the date Mr Gs car went in for repair in 2019). And she 
thought Mr G wouldve had to have the policy in place before he instructed the garage to 
repair his car to be able to make a claim under the policy. 
As Mr G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr G has found himself after his car was taken from 
his garage when it had been in for repair for a number of years. But I dont think RAC has 
done anything wrong, so I wont be upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G, but Ill explain why.
I know Mr G has raised a few wider points in relation to the policy. But Ive focussed on the 
key issue here which is whether RAC acted fairly in not considering his claim as his policy 
only commenced after the chain of events started. 
Mr G had problems with his car and took his car for repair in 2019 and so Mr G would have 
to have a policy in place at this point in time to raise a claim under the policy. And it is 
accepted by both parties that Mr Gs policy only commenced the following year (2020) so it 
is clear there wasnt a policy in place at the beginning of the chain of events that led to his 
car being taken (when he took his car in for repair in 2019). 
I know Mr G feels that his claim should be looked into as his car was taken without his 
consent in 2022 when he did have a policy in place but that isnt how the policy works. As 
outlined in the policy for Mr G to be able to claim under the Motor vehicle consumer 
disputes part of the policy it clearly outlines what is covered. It says If you enter into an 
agreement during the policy period and within the UK, to buy, sell or hire a motor vehicle, or 
have it serviced or repaired and wish to claim compensation for breach of that agreement.
So, despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr G found himself in after his car was 
taken from his chosen repairing garage without his consent I dont think RAC has done 
anything wrong here. Had Mr Gs policy been in place in 2019, when he first took his car in 
for repair and instructed the repairing garage, then the RAC would have considered his claim 
as that was when the chain of events started and would have been during the policy 
period. But as his policy didnt start until the following year any breach of that agreement 
didnt happen during the policy period so there wasnt any cover in place. 
If Mr G has any other insurance in place from around that time or if he had motor insurance 
in place when his car was taken then he may be able to claim under that policy. But his 
cover with the RAC wasnt in place when he first took his car in for repair and the chain of 
events first started so I dont think the RAC has acted unfairly, and I cant ask it to step 
outside the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman