DRN-2732234
The complaint
This complaint is about a second charge loan administered by Target Servicing Limited that 
Mrs Z held, jointly with her then husband, Mr Z, on a property they used to own. Mrs Z 
complains that after the property was sold in possession, Target paid all of the surplus funds 
to Mr Z without her knowledge or consent.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, rounding the figures involved, and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The property was taken into possession and sold by the holder of the first mortgage, a 
lender Ill call B. After B had repaid its own mortgage in full, it sent the remaining sale funds 
to Target. Target then repaid the money owing under the second charge, still leaving around 
£24,000 of surplus funds. 
Target spoke to Mr Z on the phone, with the aid of an interpreter (neither he nor Mrs Z have 
English as their first language). It took details of the account to which the funds should be 
paid, and the money was transferred. 
Mrs Z, represented here by a third party, later complained. It turned out the account to which 
Target had paid the surplus funds was held in Mr Zs name only, and he and Mrs Z had been 
in the process of getting divorced. Hed only passed £6,000 of the money to her when she 
believed she was due £12,000.
Our investigator thought Target should pay Mrs Z £500 compensation, but said that the 
question of her entitlement to more of the sale proceeds was a matter for the financial 
settlement in the matrimonial proceedings between her and Mr Z. 
Both parties asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman; Mrs Z because she 
thought it would be near impossible to pursue Mr Z for the other £6,000, Target because it 
had no prior knowledge of the matrimonial separation at the time it paid the money out.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not convinced 
Target did anything wrong here, or that any award of compensation is warranted. Thats a 
change of position from the opinion we have expressed previously, so Im setting out my 
opinion, and the reasons for it, in this provisional decision. That way, both parties will be able 
to comment before it is finalised.
The starting point in a case like this is that its standard business practice, in the case of joint 
financial arrangements, for a lender to accept instruction from either of its customers. This is 
the default position unless one or more of the following situations apply:
the underlying agreement includes a term requiring instructions from both account 
holders; 
the account holders have told the business in writing that it must at all times act only on 
joint instructions; or
the business is on notice of a dispute between the joint account holders.
None of those apply in this case. Ive seen a copy of the agreement between Mrs Z, Mr Z 
and Target in respect of the second charge loan. Its silent on the subject of joint instructions, 
meaning the default position applies. Meanwhile, Target never received anything in writing 
requiring it to only to accept joint instructions from Mrs and Mr Z together, and Mrs Z has 
confirmed she never told Target that she and Mr Z were separated pending a divorce. Lastly, 
theres nothing in Targets contact notes that suggests Mr Z had told it about the break-up of 
their relationship.
Putting all of the above together, Im satisfied there was no reason for Target to suspect 
there might be something amiss between Mrs Z and Mr Z, such that it should ask more 
questions or make further checks before accepting Mr Zs instruction to pay the surplus 
funds to the account he had specified. If that had been the case, then whether and to what 
extend Target had followed the correct process to ensure fair treatment would have become 
relevant. But as it stands, I cant find Target to have done anything wrong.
I have great sympathy for Mrs Z; shes in a horrible situation which Im sure she finds 
extremely stressful. But I can only hold Target responsible, and require it to pay her 
compensation, if I think Target acted wrongly, or had reason to do something that could have 
prevented the current situation and failed to do it. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find 
that to have been the case.
Target accepted my findings; neither Mrs Z nor her representative made any further 
comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
Ive not been given any grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman