DRN-3298367
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc did not do enough to recover the money he lost to 
an investment scammer. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr K came across 365 Markets after looking into forex trading online. He found 
an advert about them which stated consumers could earn significant returns on their 
investment with a minimum deposit of £250. After visiting 365 Markets website, he received 
a call the same day from one of their representatives who was keen to sign him up to their 
trading platform. 
Mr K was given an account manager and started with smaller investments which he paid 
using his HSBC credit card and his HSBC Visa debit card (which is being considered as a 
separate complaint). The account manager regularly contacted him to show him how his 
account was making profits and increasing in value. Mr K said the account manager would 
contact him from time to time to sell what he would call big events, telling Mr K he needed 
to invest large sums of money in order to benefit from them. Mr K felt pressured into making 
payments to 365 Markets, so that he did not miss out on these big events as the account 
manager said they could change his life. He says the account manager called him often to 
encourage him to take out credit cards and personal loans so that he could find more money 
to invest.
In August 2018 (after making all of his payments to 365 Markets), Mr K wanted to withdraw 
some money. He said he felt uneasy about having invested so much money and wanted 
some funds to be returned into his account. However, when he tried to withdraw money, 365 
Markets continuously rejected his requests and he became concerned.
 
Mr K spoke with his account manager who tried to convince him to keep his money on his 
trading account. Mr K did receive one withdrawal request in September 2018 which was paid 
to his HSBC Visa debit card, but he grew more concerned when he couldnt get anymore 
back. This prompted him to contact HSBC.
 
Mr K disputes the following payments:
Date Supplier Payment method Amount
18 April 2018 365 Markets Mastercard credit card £825.64 (Transaction 
fee £5.59)
25 April 2018 365 Markets Mastercard credit card £1,000
11 May 2018 365 Markets Mastercard credit card £750
Total: £2,581.23
Mr K asked HSBC to refund the payments in accordance with section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. HSBC declined to do so. It said binary options was a form of gambling regulated 
by the UKs Gambling Commission and were the transfer of funds, not the purchase of 
goods or services. So it concluded s.75 couldnt apply to the disputed payments. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service.
 
One of our investigators concluded first of all, that 365 Markets were scammers. He thought 
s.75 could apply to the disputed transactions and suggested that HSBC refund them, along 
with the transaction fee.
 
HSBC didnt respond, so the case has been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld and Ill 
explain why. 
Ive first considered that Mr K had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ks complaint on the 
basis that HSBC is liable to him under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what the 
Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved:
1. Mr K (the debtor)
2. HSBC (the creditor); 
3. 365 Markets (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Ks paperwork and on HSBCs business 
file submissions. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr K has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Each 
subsequent deposit was made as a way of Mr K earning more profits, with a view of 
withdrawing each subsequent deposit-transaction as and when he wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction for each of the deposits (which Ill call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr K had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled him to. So, its clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mr Ks claim is 
here. Its evident from his testimony and correspondence he provided that he feels he was 
tricked into depositing the payments with 365 Markets for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr K to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr K does not believe that 365 Markets was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Mr K was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mr K was told by 365 Markets matters that were factually untrue in 
order to trick him into entering into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation. Or, if the 365 Markets made binding promises to him as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
HSBC has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that Mr K was paying into a binary 
options account and these are classed as a form of gambling by the UKs Gambling 
Commission. It said, the deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, they were a 
credit to his trading account. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing more than 
transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the 
money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
365 Markets has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transactions. HSBC in its refusal to accept liability under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note 
that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within 
the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transactions. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr K has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr K has made a claim of misrepresentation by 365 Markets  that claim being 
that they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr K into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Mr K could have ever received back more money than he deposited, then it follows 
that any statements made by 365 Markets to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr K could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr Ks account of events, the nature of the situation 
and Mr Ks communication with his account manager that 365 Markets did claim that Mr K 
could have made money from the trading platform. 
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr K known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of him 
not investing with 365 Markets. Consequently, should I be satisfied that 365 Markets isnt 
operating a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mr Ks account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated by his email 
contact with 365 Markets. Because of this Im minded to find his account to be truthful.
So, turning to his account, I note that he mentioned coming into contact with 365 Markets 
after clicking on an online advert offering large returns. Mr K says 365 Markets promised him 
larger returns with a dedicated account manager and that before each deposit transaction, 
the account manager would actively contact him ahead of a big event to earn more money. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by 365 Markets. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the merchant is 
offering little more than a video game or simulation.
Ive noted regulators published warnings about 365 Markets as follows: 
On 25 May 2018, an alert about Golden Markets was published by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) warning that they were offering financial services in its 
jurisdiction without authorisation. 
On 20 February 2019 (after Mr Ks payments), Financial Services and Markets 
Authority in Belgium published an alert on the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal. Warning about Binary options and forex 
products. 
Ive also noted that binary options/forex traders offering services in the UK were required to 
be regulated by the FCA at the time of Mr Ks payments and 365 Markets were not. Nor 
were they licensed or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware. 
365 Markets is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also 
several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mr Ks.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers 
applying for credit - as 365 Markets did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a complaint repeated 
across many complaints against similar firms. I note most of the communication Mr K had 
with 365 Markets was over the phone but he did have some email communication with them 
and Ive included an extract of some of that communication here. 
On 12 June 2018, Mr Ks account manager said:
were not dealing with 2.5K anymore mate and this event is a gamechanger with different rules:
1. You will be able to squeeze in a portion of your existing balance alongside your ad-hoc 
investment!
2. You can withdraw the profits at the same day the trades close, if you want, or any part of 
them.
10K will get you:
10K + 22.5% of your balance + bonus of 15% of the 10K = £18,987.34 going into this event, 
guaranteed to yield a minimal return of 25% = £4,746.84 net profit and an endin balance of 
£57,011 your return on investment will be 51.07%
Ive got people scrambling to push as much of their money as they can into this, the guy 
who took your spot? Threw in 25K.
25K gets you:
25K + 35% of your balance+30% bonus of the 25K = £44,146.97 going into this trade, 
guaranteed min return of 35% = £15,451.44 net profit (61.81% ROI) and an ending b 
£92,875.49.
See what I mean when I say this one counts?
Ive also seen evidence that Mr K made multiple withdrawal attempts when he had a balance 
of over £100,000 and 365 Markets declined those withdrawal attempts for various reasons  
sighting non-compliance with identification verification and non-compliance with bonus 
conditions. But Ive also read the terms of his agreement with 365 Markets and any terms 
relating to the withdrawal of bonuses relate to the withdrawal of bonuses alone, not a 
customers own capital payments. Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely 365 Markets was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Mr K  specifically 
that they were running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever have got back 
more than his deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr K had known this, he 
wouldnt have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of 
these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to the first deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward to 
cover off. Had the deposit-transaction not have occurred the transaction fee couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of the deposit-transaction. 
As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Mr K to 
make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Mr Ks 
payment of the transaction fee was consequential loss in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Here, Mr K has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that 365 Markets had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr K to use the funds from his deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Mr K to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr K wasnt permitted to withdraw the funds from his trading account. He might have made 
losses or profits from his investment  so a breach of the former term has not  on the 
balance of probabilities  caused him to lose trading profits and he would (on balance) have 
been left no better or worse off than when he made the deposit-transactions.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Ks loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of the deposit-transactions.
Transaction feeI need to consider how much better off Mr K would have been if the merchant had fulfilled its 
contractual obligations to him. Applying that test to the first deposit-transaction, its clear that 
the transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction. I say this 
because allowing Mr K to trade on the account and withdraw the deposit as and when he 
wished would not have prevented him from having to pay the transaction fee. 
So, the transaction fee should not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the 
breach of contract claim relating to the deposit-transaction. 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mr K could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mr K has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that 365 Markets made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they 
were operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr K could access his money freely 
and earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Mr K also has a claim for breach of contract as 365 
Markets breached the verbal and written promises to Mr K. Namely that he would be 
able to use the funds from his deposit-transactions on an investment platform and 
access them freely  when he wished.  This provides another basis for recovery of 
the deposit-transactions.
 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, HSBC should put Mr K back into the 
position he would have been had the deposit-transactions totalling £2,575.64 had not been 
entered into. So, he should receive refunds of these amounts, plus the transaction fee of 
£5.59. Making the total amount due back to Mr K £2,581.23
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund Mr K the deposit-transactions, 
transaction fee, plus interest. It should:
- Refund the deposit-transactions, 
- Refund the transaction fee; 
- Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If HSBC deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Mr K 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman