DRN-1999213
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs D. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 9 June 2020. A copy of my provisional decision 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
didnt think that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs Ds representative responded giving 
reasons why it still thought that AXA had mis-sold the PPI policy to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought Mrs D actively decided to take the PPI policy 
knowing she could choose not to do so. This was because I could see that she had signed in 
the place provided on her credit agreement to indicate she wanted this cover. And I also 
thought she would have been likely to have queried why she was being charged for PPI if 
she wasnt previously aware it had been added to her account.
Mrs Ds representative says that, whilst she signed for the policy, it was never explained to 
her at the time what she was signing up for. And her representative also says that, whilst she 
may have noticed the PPI charges on her statement, as the policy was never explained to 
her she thought this was a condition of her card.
Ive thought about what Mrs Ds representative has said. But this hasnt changed my mind 
about thinking Mrs D is most likely to have known at the time she was choosing to take out 
an optional PPI policy. Whilst I accept that the policy may not have been explained as well 
as it could have been, I still dont think Mrs D would have signed for the PPI if she hadnt 
decided she wanted this type of cover. And as Mrs D has previously said that she wasnt 
aware she had been sold PPI, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to now conclude 
that she thought at the time that it was a condition of her card.I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think AXA recommended the PPI policy to 
Mrs D. This means it didnt have to ensure that the policy was suitable for her. But it did still 
need to ensure that it gave her enough information to make this decision herself. Mrs Ds 
representative says she wasnt given this information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way. 
And it says that AXA didnt fully explain the terms and conditions of the policy to her. 
In my provisional decision I said that I thought AXA could have given Mrs D better 
information than it did about the PPI policy. But I gave reasons why I thought better 
information wouldnt have changed her mind about taking it. I said that she appeared to be 
eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. I said 
that the policy appeared affordable for her and that she could have cancelled it if her needs 
changed. And I said that I thought Mrs D would have valued the extra security the policy 
gave her. In relation to this latter comment, I also said that if Mrs D could provide evidence of 
her sick pay entitlement at the time of the sale, I would consider this further before making 
my final decision. 
Mrs D representative has said that, if Mrs D had been informed of the true benefits of the 
policy, she wouldnt have agreed to buy an expensive policy knowing the sick pay she was 
entitled to. But it hasnt provided the further evidence of her sick pay entitlement that has 
been previously requested. So what its said hasnt changed my view that Mrs D would have 
found the cover provided by this policy useful to her.
So, having carefully considered the additional comments provided by Mrs Ds representative 
following my provisional decision, I still dont think that Mrs D has lost out by anything that 
AXA may have done wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman