DRN-1598756
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent money to 
him that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about the six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr S between July and 
December 2015. Mr S' borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £150 04/07/2015 30/07/2015
2 £300 09/07/2015 07/12/2015
3 £500 01/08/2015 written off
4 £150 06/08/2015 12/11/2015
5 £450 17/11/2015 written off
6 £350 09/12/2015 written off
 
Mr S said that it was too easy to take out the loans and that they were unaffordable. He said 
he had to borrow from family in order to make the repayments.
Sunny said that before the loans were provided it carried out eligibility, creditworthiness and 
affordability checks to ensure the amount borrowed could be paid without undue difficulties. 
It said that based on the information gathered the loan repayments were affordable for Mr S.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loans 4 to 6. In response to our 
adjudicators view, Sunny provided a counter offer to Mr S upholding his complaint in regard 
to loan 6. Mr S didnt accept Sunnys offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having 
to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold loans 1 to 3. As neither party has disputed this I havent 
considered these loans any further. I have however included them in my overall assessment 
of Sunnys lending to Mr S.
When Mr S took out loan 4, he had repaid loan 1 but loans 2 and 3 were still outstanding. 
This meant that his combined monthly repayments for the three loans were around £300. At 
the time of loan 4, Mr S' monthly income was recorded as £1,100. The combined loan 
repayments accounted for a significant amount of Mr S' monthly income which I think should 
have raised concerns that Mr S wouldn't be able to meet his existing commitments without 
having to borrow again. I think that Sunny should have been concerned that Mr S wouldn't 
be able to sustainably make his repayments on this loan and because of this I don't think this 
loan shouldn't have been provided.
Mr S repaid loan 4 and a few days later took out a much larger loan. I think this shows that 
Mr S was continuing to struggle to manage his money. Although his monthly income had 
increased to £1,200 at this point, the combined repayments amounts under the three 
outstanding loans meant he was still using a significant amount of his income to make the 
repayments. This situation got worse when loan 6 was taken out (even though loan 2 had 
been repaid at that time).
Overall, I find that loans 4 to 6 shouldn't have been provided. I don't think that Sunny should have considered these loans sustainably affordable.  
 Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 4 to 6;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*;
 
remove any negative information about loans 4 to 6 from Mr S credit file.
 
Sunny wrote off some of Mr S' loans. Based on the information provided, Mr S repaid more 
than the capital amount on loan 5 but not on loan 6. Therefore Sunny can offset any written 
off capital amount from the refund to Mr S set out above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Bs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr S compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman