DRN-3709209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General, 
declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Ms B has represented Mr and Mrs B throughout.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms B got in touch with Fairmead in 2019 to report damage to a fence and wall. She 
thought it had been caused by a neighbour since 2015.
Fairmead considered a claim for the wall under the buildings insurance section of the 
policy. It also considered a claim for the fence under the separate legal expenses 
section of the policy. 
A separate complaint has been considered about the legal expenses claim for the 
wall and an ombudsman has made a final decision.
This complaint is about the wall. Fairmead didnt think the damage had been caused 
by an insured event as it didnt think the wall had been damaged maliciously. And 
whilst it may have been accidental damage, Mr and Mrs Bs policy didnt include that 
cover at that time. Fairmead accepted there had been some issues with the service it 
had provided and offered £30 compensation.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had acted fairly when it declined the wall damage 
claim. And she thought the compensation was reasonable. She asked Fairmead to 
consider a legal expenses claim for the wall.
An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The legal expenses section of the policy considered the fence damage. Another 
ombudsman has dealt with that complaint, so I cant reconsider it here. But, in 
summary, they found the claim had been settled fairly. I will focus on the wall.
The buildings section of the policy provides cover for damage caused in a specific set 
of ways. For example, damage caused by fire, flood or theft is covered. Each of 
these causes is known as an insured event.
Fairmead considered whether any of the damage Ms B claimed for had been caused 
in any of the ways covered by the policy, ie, by an insured event.
The policy covers damage caused by malicious acts but Fairmead saw no evidence 
to suggest the neighbour had acted maliciously in relation to the damage. Ive looked 
at the photos provided by Ms B. There appears to be water damage to the outside of 
the wall, with some of the render coming away. And theres some debris or rubbish 
left against or near the wall. I agree theres no clear sign of intent by the neighbour to 
cause damage. So I dont think the damage was caused maliciously.
Fairmead also noted that an optional extra section, for accidental damage, may 
have covered the damage caused, but it wasnt included in the policy at the relevant 
time. When the policy was taken out in 2014, it didnt include accidental damage. 
That remained the case at subsequent renewals and at the time the claim was made 
in July 2019. It was added at the December 2019 renewal  after the claim was made 
and after the time the damage was thought to have happened. So I think it was 
reasonable for Fairmead not to consider the claim under accidental damage. 
Ive checked the other insured events in the policy at the relevant time. None seem 
likely to have caused the damage.
Ms B has questioned whether internal and external walls are treated differently under 
the policy. I dont see the relevance of this question as the entire claim has been 
declined. And, as far as I can see, the damage is limited to the external wall, so there 
is no internal damage to consider.
Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline the claim for the 
damage to the building.
If Ms B thinks the damage was caused in any of the ways covered by the policy at 
the relevant time, including accidental damage from December 2019, shes entitled to 
provide Fairmead with evidence to support that. I would expect it to consider any 
evidence she provides.
It doesnt appear Fairmead has considered a claim under the legal expenses section 
of the policy for the wall. Our investigator suggested it do so and it hasnt replied. As 
it hasnt objected to this suggestion, Im satisfied it should consider the claim.
Fairmead accepted there were service issues early in the claim and offered £30 
compensation. I agree there was poor communication and a lack of clarity about the 
status of the claim. That led to some delay responding to the claim. Im satisfied £30 
is reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Consider a claim for the wall damage under the legal expenses section of the policy.
Pay £30 compensation if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 James Neville
Ombudsman