DRN-4207245
The complaint
Mr H complains that a used car supplied by RCI Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Mobilize Financial Services) under a finance agreement was misrepresented and of 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr H acquired this car with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) in March 2022. He did a pre-
purchase HPI search and noticed a mileage discrepancy in the MOT history  just over 
51,000 miles was recorded in 2020 whereas the cars odometer showed around 15,600 
miles at the point of sale. He asked the supplying dealer about this and the salesperson said 
the MOT tester must have recorded the wrong numbers and this would be corrected.  
Not long after he collected the car Mr H had problems with the gearbox and a coolant leak 
and the supplying dealer replaced the gearbox mount and the radiator in April 2022, at no 
cost to him. When Mr H took the car for a service, about a year later, and he noticed the 
mileage recorded at the 2020 MOT was unchanged. The dealer said it contacted the 2020 
MOT tester but they didnt have records dating that far back and offered to take the car back 
and clear the finance. 
Mr H didnt think that was fair - as hed lose his deposit and all the payments made toward 
the finance. But hes concerned the mileage discrepancy will impact adversely on his ability 
to sell the car and its re-sale value. He wants the MOT mileage record corrected and he also 
thinks its possible the car may have been clocked. Given the problems with the gearbox 
and radiator plus a mis-aligned headlight, he believes it may have been in an accident in the 
past as well. Hes also unhappy that the dealer said the car had three previous owners 
instead of four. And it failed to honour offers made in 2022 of an extended warranty and two 
free services - the dealer had no record of the offer when Mr H mentioned it, although one 
service free was provided as a goodwill gesture. 
RCI says the 2020 MOT mileage was recorded incorrectly due to an administrative error by 
the MOT tester. Mr H knew about this before sale so he wasnt misled about the cars actual 
mileage. And, in any event, the dealer offered to buy the car back but Mr H refused. RCI 
considers Mr H accepted the repairs offered in April 2022 and these were successful - there 
were no issues found with the gearbox and radiator at the most recent service  so it 
shouldnt have to do anything else. 
Mr H referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the evidence. 
In summary, she said she couldnt be certain was said at the point of supply but she didnt 
think it likely there was a misrepresentation. She thought other records of the cars mileage 
suggest the discrepancy in the MOT history was due to human error and the dealers offer to 
buy the car back was reasonable in the circumstances. 
She suggested Mr H could get an expert to check the car if hes still concerned it may have 
been clocked and she explained we couldnt look into the offers of two free services and an 
extended warranty in this complaint against RCI as these were made by the dealer after the 
point of supply. She was satisfied the April 2022 repairs were successful and Mr H accepted 
that at the time but she acknowledged he probably experienced some distress and 
inconvenience. She was satisfied these faults were probably present when the car was 
supplied and she found it fair RCI should pay Mr H £150 compensation and, if any adverse 
information was recorded on Mr Hs credit file, this should be removed.  
RCI accepted the investigators recommendations but Mr H didnt agree. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. In summary, he said he doesn't understand why we can't 
require RCI to rectify the mileage discrepancy. He thinks this should have been done before 
the car was supplied. He feels misled into making the purchase, as he brought the issue to 
the dealers attention before sale, and the salesperson convinced him they would sort it out. 
He's happy to keep the car but he wants this resolved and he may go to the police about the 
mileage. He also felt insulted that investigator referred to rectifying his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties have provided fairly detailed submissions so Im going to have to summarise 
things in my decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this. I want to assure both 
parties, if I dont mention every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. Im going to 
concentrate however on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
I should also make it clear at the start that the Financial Ombudsman Service provides 
alternative dispute resolution which is free to complainants. Im not a regulator. I dont have 
the power to tell RCI how to operate on a day to day basis and its not within my remit to 
punish a financial business or any individual. My job here is to look at all of the information 
available about this particular complaint, without taking sides, and consider the merits on a 
fair and reasonable basis.
Mr H brings this complaint to our service because RCI supplied this car under a HPA. And 
Im looking at RCIs obligations arising out of that finance agreement in this decision. Im 
required to take relevant law into account and Im satisfied that includes the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) here. 
Satisfactory quality
Under the CRA, RCI was required to ensure (amongst other things) that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet 
the standard a reasonable person would expect, taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, its usually reasonable to take 
the cars age, price and mileage at the point of supply into account. This car was four years 
old, cost just under £20,000 and it had over 15,500 miles on the clock. I think a reasonable 
person would accept a vehicle like this is likely to have some parts that were worn and would 
need repairing or replacing at some stage but Mr H had a reasonable expectation that the 
car would be relatively durable.     
I can see the problems with the gearbox and radiator appeared not long after supply. And I 
agree with the investigator its more likely than not these issues were present at the outset. 
The CRA says a purchaser has the short term right to reject faulty goods but that must be exercised within the first thirty days of purchase. Ive seen nothing to show that Mr H did so. 
After the first 30 days (as far as its relevant here) the CRA allows for a price reduction or a 
final right to reject goods, if theres been one repair or replacement and theres still a 
problem. 
Im satisfied that Mr H accepted the repairs offered here (which were undertaken at no cost 
to him) and it looks as if they were successful  the gearbox was checked at the 2023 
service and no issues were found. So, I cant reasonably conclude that these issues mean 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality now. 
RCI accepted the investigators view that Mr H should be paid £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes likely to have experienced because the car was supplied 
with these faults present. I understand a courtesy car was provided so Mr H was kept mobile 
while his car was repaired. It looks as if he had to take the car back several times for 
investigations and repairs however and I think £150 seems reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Sometimes consumers stop making payments in this situation and adverse information, such 
as late or missed payments, are reported to credit reference agencies and the investigator 
indicated in her view that RCI should remove any such adverse information from Mr Hs 
credit file. Im sorry to hear Mr H felt this insulting, as he made all of his finance payments 
and no such information was recorded. It follows theres no need for me to require RCI to 
remove this in his case.   
I understand Mr H is concerned now that the problems with the gearbox and the radiator, 
taken with a misaligned headlight identified at an MOT, suggest the car was in a serious 
accident in the past meaning its of unsatisfactory quality. Ive spoken to Mr H and explained 
that I dont think theres currently enough evidence to safely conclude thats likely. I asked if 
he would like more time to obtain further evidence (which could include a report from an 
independent technician, for example) but he didnt wish to do so. He wanted me to go ahead 
and make my final decision on the evidence available.  
Was the car clocked?
Theres no dispute that the mileage recorded at the 2020 MOT doesnt match the cars 
odometer reading at the point of supply. Im satisfied that Mr H knew about this discrepancy 
before he agreed to acquire the car and take out the finance so I cant reasonably conclude 
he was misled about that. 
I think Mr H seems to have been prepared to accept this was an administrative error at the 
outset but hes concerned now the car may have been clocked  meaning the mileage 
recorded at the 2020 MOT was accurate. I think thats unlikely. Im satisfied the mileage 
recorded in the cars service history is consistent with the odometer readings. And I consider 
its more likely than not the higher mileage recorded at the 2020 MOT was a typographical 
error. I dont think such mistakes are uncommon  according to the DVSA website it receives 
over 14,000 requests a year for correction. And it looks as if the MOT tester here probably 
reversed the first two numbers - so over 51,000 miles was recorded instead of just over 
15,000. 
Weighing up all of the evidence Im not persuaded its likely this car was clocked and I think 
the odometer reading is probably accurate.  
misrepresentation
Im satisfied that RCI was required, under the CRA, to ensure that the car was described accurately at the point of sale and I can consider any representations made by the dealer, 
during the course of pre-sale negotiations, in this complaint against RCI - under section 56 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
For the reasons set out above, I think the mileage on the odometer at the point of sale was 
probably right and Im not persuaded Mr H was misled about that - or that the cars mileage 
was mis-described. 
I think the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he says the dealer told him the discrepancy in the 
MOT mileage history would be rectified after sale, but this didnt happen. For me to uphold 
this part of the complaint, Id need to be satisfied that its likely the supplying dealer told Mr H 
something that wasnt true and that untrue statement induced him to accept the car and take 
out the HPA. 
Like the investigator, Im satisfied Mr H probably did raise the mileage discrepancy with the 
dealer at the outset - theres evidence the dealer contacted the 2020 MOT tester after that 
but they didnt have records going back to 2020 and the recorded mileage wasnt changed. I 
cant be certain what the dealer told Mr H exactly at the point of supply. But, even if I were to 
accept the dealer guaranteed the mileage record would be fixed, Im not persuaded its likely 
this statement induced Mr H to accept the car and take out the finance. I say this because 
Im satisfied Mr H knew the about the mileage discrepancy when he agreed to make the 
purchase. And, if this issue was of particular importance to him, I think it would have been 
reasonable to check that it was resolved before sale - or soon after collection. Mr H doesnt 
seem to have reviewed the cars MOT history for some time however  until the next service 
was due  which suggests it wasnt a major concern. 
More recently Mr H told us the dealer also said (at the point of supply) the car had three not 
four previous owners. I cant be certain what was said at the relevant time but, even if I were 
to accept what Mr H says, Im not persuaded that this statement is likely to have induced him 
to accept this particular vehicle either. I say this because I think its fairly easy to check how 
many people have owned a vehicle previously - by looking at the registration document or a 
HPI search. And, if this was of particular importance to Mr H, Id reasonably expect him to 
have raised it much sooner. 
I realise Mr H may feel this is unfair and Im holding him responsible for checking what the 
dealer said was right - but thats not the case. As I explained above, in order for me to find 
misrepresentations were made, Id have to be satisfied not only that Mr H was told 
something untrue but also that he reasonably relied on this when he decided to acquire the 
car and take out the finance. Like most car buyers, I think Mr H probably took a number of 
factors into account when he chose this particular vehicle. And, if fixing the mileage 
discrepancy and the number of previous owners were significant factors in his decision, Id 
reasonably expect him to have raised these issues much sooner.    
I understand from Mr H that the offers of two free services and an extended warranty were 
made around the time the repairs were undertaken. This was after the car was supplied and, 
as the investigator explained, its not something Im able to reasonably hold RCI liable for. 
I understand the dealer has offered to take the car back now and clear the finance. I 
appreciate Mr H doesnt think thats fair - he says hed lose his deposit and payments made 
towards the finance. For the reasons Ive explained above I cant fairly find Mr H is entitled to 
reject this car now. But, even if I was minded to find RCI should take the car back, I would be 
likely to consider it fair that Mr H pay for the use he had of the vehicle and Id be unlikely to 
award a refund of any monthly payments in the circumstances here. I leave it to Mr H to 
decide if he wants to take up the dealers offer.According to the Gov.UK website, administrative errors at an MOT must be corrected within 
28 days and its necessary to contact the DVSA with relevant evidence (such as an 
emissions printout or service receipt) after that. Mr H may wish to consider contacting the 
DVSA for more information about this.  
Finally, when I spoke to Mr H, he suggested the HPA may have been mis-sold at the outset. 
I cant see that this has been raised previously with RCI so Im unable to deal with it in my 
decision. Its open to Mr H to contact RCI about this however and, if hes unhappy with the 
response, he may be able to bring another complaint about that to our service.  
I realise my findings are likely to come as a disappointment to Mr H. I have no doubt hes 
been stressed and frustrated by what happened and Im sorry if he feels let down. Mr H is 
not obliged to accept what I have said however, in which case it remains open to him to 
pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require RCI 
Financial Services Limited (trading as Mobilize Financial Services) to pay Mr H £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
If RCI does not pay the £150 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Mr H accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman