DRN-3245689
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) charged them excessive 
amounts for their overdraft, they also say they were in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L complained to BoS about the charges that had been applied to their account. 
They said theyd been experiencing financial difficulties throughout this period and the 
charges had made things worse. BoS didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr and Mrs L 
were dissatisfied, they referred the complaint to our service.
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that we 
would only be able to consider charges applied from August 2017 onwards. He also 
explained that he thought BoS ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs L were experiencing 
financial difficulty by August 2018 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and 
charges from this point onwards. BoS didnt agree so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators findings that 
BoS acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 
August 2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr and Mrs L were unlikely to be 
in a position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs Ls statements showed evidence of hardcore borrowing. In 
other words they hadnt maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. BoSs 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged use. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs L did occasionally repay their overdraft for 
short periods of time (generally only a few days at a maximum), but they would quickly be 
back in an overdrawn position as soon as their regular bills and other payments came out of 
their account. Given that they appeared to be relying on their overdraft for day to day 
spending, and spend the significant majority of each month in an overdrawn position, I still 
think that Mr and Mrs Ls overdraft usage should have prompted BoS to have realised that 
they werent using their overdraft as intended. So I think BoS shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As BoS didnt react to Mr and Mrs Ls overdraft usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs L were able to repay their overdraft and maintain a credit 
balance in later years. But I dont think this changes the fact that I think BoS should have 
taken action regarding their account in 2018.
Mr and Mrs L ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
BoS didnt treat Mr and Mrs L fairly and they lost out because of what BoS did wrong. And 
this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for BoS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Ls current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from August 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BoS should contact Mr and Mrs L to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Mr and Mrs L are encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with BoS 
to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr and Mrs Ls credit files, BoS should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
overdraft in August 2018. BoS can also reduce the overdraft limit by the amount 
of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
Mr and Mrs L over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs L along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then BoS should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ls 
credit files. BoS can also reduce Mr and Mrs Ls overdraft limit by the amount of 
the refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mr 
and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Bank of Scotland 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman