DRN-1631476
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc placed a block on his credit card account.
What happened
On 13 October 2019, Mr C attempted to use his Capital One credit card to pay for car hire 
while he was abroad.
Mr C had used the credit card to book hire online prior to collecting the car. The car hire 
company said that the transaction would need to be made on the same credit card that was 
used for the online booking.
Mr C says that he transferred £1000 to the credit card account the day before he went away, 
to make sure there was enough available funds on the account to pay for the car hire. This 
transaction put his account into credit.
When Mr C went to pay for the car hire using his credit card, the transaction was declined. 
Mr C contacted Capital One to find out what the issue was. He was told that a block had 
been placed on the account and that the account was waiting to be reviewed by a different 
team. He was told the specialist team wouldnt be available to review his account until the 
following day.
Mr C says that because of this, another member of the group he was travelling with had to 
use their card for the transaction. But because this was a different card to the one used to 
book the hire, they lost out on a promotional offer, and so the car hire had cost more than Mr 
C expected to pay. In addition to this, Mr C says he and his group were caused much 
embarrassment. 
To resolve this complaint, Mr C would like £223.91 refunding to him  which was the amount 
he lost out as a result of not receiving the promotional offer.
Capital One responded to Mr Cs complaint to say that it hadnt done anything wrong in 
blocking the account. It said it has the right to block accounts and review accounts without 
prior warning. It also said it is part of its business policy to regularly review customers 
accounts, and the transactions they make, as part of its commitment to protecting customers 
against fraud.
Our investigator also looked into Mr Cs complaint. He thought that Capital One had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions when blocking Mr Cs account. And so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree without our investigator. He said that hed contacted Captial One the day 
before his trip to let them know about the transaction he was planning to make. He says 
Capital One acknowledged this and said it didnt see that there would be a problem in the 
transaction going through. Hes also told us that he was unhappy that when he called in, the 
customer service representative wasnt able to help him  even in the knowledge of the 
seriousness of the situation he could find himself in if he couldnt hire the car. Mr C has also complained that his Capital One credit card doesnt work in the same way as other credit 
cards - and its unreasonable that the specialist team who could remove the block from the 
account werent available on a Sunday, when he called in.
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything I have on file, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate 
that this decision will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my findings in more 
detail below. 
Like with most credit card providers, Capital One states in its terms and conditions that it can 
place a block on an account without prior warning. It can also decline transactions until the 
account has been reviewed. This isnt unusual and is a precaution to protect itself and its 
customers from fraud. So I don't find it unreasonable for Capital One to have placed a block 
on Mr C's account - and declined the transaction.
Mr C says that he called into Capital One the previous day to let them know about the 
transaction he intended to make  and was told this shouldnt be a problem. Ive asked 
Capital One for a copy of this call, or information about what was said on the call. But Capital 
One dont have any record of this call taking place. But even if I accept the call took place, 
Capital One were still within its rights to block the transaction.
It seems to me that Mr Cs main complaint is that there wasnt anyone available to review his 
account at the time he needed. This is because the specialist team who would review his 
account work Monday-Friday and Mr C called on a Sunday. While I can understand how 
frustrating this must have been for Mr C, I cant find that Capital One has done anything 
wrong here. Its up to Capital One to decide when it has different teams working  this is its 
business decision and not something I can comment on. All businesses have different 
processes in place for this, and so I wont be making any comment in this decision about 
how other businesses chose to operate.
The block was lifted from Mr Cs account the following day, and so I think his account was 
reviewed within a reasonable period of time. 
While I appreciate Mr Cs point of view here, in that blocking his card without warning, while 
abroad and trying to hire a car must have been frustrating and embarrassing. And in addition 
to this he wasnt able to speak to someone immediately. But I have to consider if Capital 
One has done anything wrong  or acted unreasonably and I dont think it has and so I wont 
be asking Capital One to do anything more for Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman