DRN-2949982
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds actions caused him to 
cancel his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S bought a telematics (black box) insurance policy through a comparison website. Shortly 
after he installed the box he complained about the accuracy of the data it was recording.
Eventually Mr S cancelled his policy. And as a result he was charged for some things that 
weren't refundable. He complained. Advantage agreed it hadn't got everything right. So it 
sent Mr S a cheque for £15 and waived a cancellation fee of £45.
Mr S didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 29 June 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its likely Ill partly uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything that he and Advantage have said carefully. But in this provisional decision I don't 
intend to address each and every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the 
key points at the heart of Mr S original complaint.
The policy Mr S bought required him to install a black box which gathered data about his 
driving. Advantage may then use the data from the box to amend the premium, or, if the 
score falls below a certain level to cancel the policy. Soon after Mr S installed the box he 
contacted Advantage and said he didn't think it was accurately recording his driving 
information. Advantage told Mr S that his driving score was good. But Mr S was concerned 
the box might not be right and could be incorrectly recording certain braking events.
Advantage later offered to replace the box. But, after reviewing the data, felt the box was 
working well. So it said a replacement box wasnt required. Mr S remained unhappy and 
offered to provide dashcam evidence which he believed would show the black box data 
wasn't accurate. Advantage didn't take him up on that offer.
Mr S complained. Advantage said it was happy that the black boxs data was accurate. But it 
noted that some of its customer service could have been better. So it offered Mr S £15 
compensation. Mr S remained concerned that - at some point in the future - Advantage 
might say his driving score was low and cancel the policy. So he cancelled the policy himself 
before that could happen. At that point a £45 cancellation fee was waived. But because of 
the policy cancellation Mr S didn't receive any reimbursement of some non-refundable 
charges associated with his policy including a £150 fee to install the black box and a £24.99 
premium for an optional personal accident policy.
Mr S said that as he only cancelled the policy because the black box was faulty, he shouldnt 
have to pay any charges on cancellation.
Its clear that Mr S felt that there was something wrong with the black box. And he felt that 
because it was faulty, under the protections set out in the Consumer Rights Act, Advantage 
should have repaired or replaced the box.
I should say that its not my role to make a determination about whether or not Advantage is 
in breach of a specific law. That's because, while I will take the law into account, I make my 
decisions based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
But, in any event, I'm not persuaded by Mr S evidence that the black box was faulty. And, if 
the device wasn't faulty then I see no reason why Advantage needed to replace it. 
Advantage told us that in both March and May 2020, it had reviewed the black box data and 
couldn't find any anomalies. So it was satisfied that the box was working well. I asked 
Advantage for details of its review of the black box data. It explained that the reviews are 
carried out by an external company which perform diagnostic checks on the device but those 
didn't reveal any faults or anomalies. And its shared with us some of the data on which it 
based its scores. And having considered that Im satisfied that it's more likely than not that 
the box was working as it should be.
Mr S had said that his dashcam uses similar technology to the black box and information 
from that could be used to check the accuracy of the black box data. So I asked why 
Advantage hadn't used this to test its accuracy. Advantage told me that even if Mr S 
dashcam used similar technology, it won't work in an identical manner to the black box. And 
in those circumstances it wouldn't be possible to make a like-for-like comparison between 
the black box and the dashcam data.
I think thats fair as, even if the black box and Mr S dashcam use the same technology, its 
the manner in which Advantage interprets the data that technology provides which will lead 
to the driving score it gives. I note Advantage gave Mr S specific details of occasions where 
it felt his braking was harsh. And Mr S hasn't explained why he believed his dashcam 
footage will show that data is wrong. I also think its worth pointing out that exactly how 
Advantage, or any other insurer, decides to interpret driving data is commercially sensitive 
information. That means it's not something it will share with the wider public. So, while Mr S 
might not think his braking should be classified as harsh, that doesn't mean that it was wrong 
for Advantage to make that determination, based on the algorithms it employs, to decide its 
driving scores. And I note it gave Mr S advice about how to improve his score. I think that 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
That said, I'm aware that Advantage did offer to provide Mr S with a replacement box. And 
having done so I think it should have either done that or told Mr S, very soon after, that it 
wasn't going to do so. And I do understand that Mr S might have found Advantages change 
of position frustrating. As he no doubt felt that a replacement box would have corrected what 
he thought was incorrect data from a faulty box. But, I can also see Advantages point of 
view. As far as it was concerned there was nothing wrong with the box  so there was no 
reason to replace it. But if that was the case then I think the appropriate thing to do would 
have been to quickly tell Mr S that it had made a mistake in telling him it would replace the 
box. However I don't believe it took that action promptly. So I can understand why Mr S 
found that disappointing.Our investigator said Advantage hadn't acted fairly because it hadn't sent an engineer out to 
examine the box. But I don't think that was something Advantage needed to do. The policy 
doesn't say that an engineer will examine the box if Mr S questioned its data. And 
Advantage was satisfied that the box was working well. In other words it had no reasons to 
send out an engineer. So I don't find it unfair that Advantage didn't arrange an engineer to 
look at the black box because Mr S wasnt happy with the data it collected.
Mr S told us that he felt he had little option but to cancel his policy. But I disagree. As I've 
said above while Mr S might not have agreed with Advantage's interpretation of certain 
aspects of his driving style, his lack of agreement isn't evidence that the black box was 
faulty. And as I understand it, generally, Mr S driving scores were good. Advantage has told 
us that he wasn't anywhere near the point at which it would have warned him that it might 
cancel his policy. So I don't think the only option open to Mr S was for him to cancel it. That 
was his choice to do so and I don't believe anything Advantage did forced him into that. It 
follows that I don't think Advantage needs to compensate Mr S for any non-refundable 
charges or premiums he didn't receive refunds for because he chose to cancel the policy.
That said Advantage agreed that it hadn't got everything right. And it sent Mr S a cheque for 
£15 to compensate him for some failings in its customer service. I understand that a £45 
charge was also waived, which when added together come to a total of £60. But I don't think 
that goes far enough to address Mr S disappointment that Advantage had reneged on its 
offer to replace the box. And while I understand why it eventually came to that decision, it 
either shouldn't have made the offer in the first place or should have very quickly 
acknowledged that the offer had been an error and considered compensating him for that 
error at that point. But it didn't do so. And to address the impact of that I think it should pay 
Mr S a further £100 compensation.
Mr S added that Advantaged slandered him when it replied to our requests for information. 
But, while it's not my role to decide if Advantage has been guilty of slander, I don't think it did 
anything wrong in making further points. Advantage is entitled to put across its reasons for 
its opinions in the same way Mr S is. And, as I've said above, I make my decision based on 
all the evidence of the complaint and those include the points that Mr S had made which 
Advantage might not agree with.
Developments 
Mr S didn't reply to my provisional decision. Advantage didn't agree that I should partly 
uphold the complaint. It repeated that the box was working correctly and that it wasn't about 
to cancel Mr S policy. It said it was fair that it had time to investigate Mr S concerns before 
issuing a new device.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to depart from my provisional decision.
I agree that it would have been reasonable for Advantage to investigate Mr S concerns 
before telling him whether or not it would issue a new box. But that's not what happened. 
Instead Advantage told him it would issue a new box and then didn't tell him it had reneged 
on that offer until after it had investigated the matter, I don't think that was fair. And its delay 
in telling Mr S it had changed its position was clearly a source of distress and inconvenience  
for him. So I remain satisfied that it's fair and reasonable that Advantage pays him £100 
compensation to address that. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr S £100 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman