DRN-3866065
The complaint
Mr D complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined his 
claim for damage following a storm under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a claim to Admiral when he noticed internal damage to his kitchen ceiling and 
around his kitchen window following bad weather.
Admiral appointed a surveyor to validate the damage. Admiral decided to decline the claim 
as it said storm conditions were not met and it said it surveyors report identified wear and 
tear as the cause of the damage. Admiral said the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr D didnt think the surveyors report was particularly convincing and didnt think it was 
consistent with what he was told by the surveyor at the time of the visit. Mr D said hed 
experienced no problems with the roof until the bad weather came.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think the claim had been properly 
considered  he thought the damage was by rainwater entering through the roof. He said 
there was evidence of storm conditions around the time of the reported incident and he didnt 
think Admiral had proven wear and tear was the main cause of damage. So, he thought the 
claim should be re-considered. Admiral disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My initial thinking (first provisional decision)
I issued a provisional decision on this on 8 November 2022. I said: 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Admiral didnt agree that storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident. I 
have checked our services own resources to understand what the weather conditions were 
like around the time of the reported incident. I can see wind gusts were recorded at 71mph 
on the 27 November 2021.
Admiral explained its definition of a storm as wind with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), 
heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 
hours, or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
As the damage following a storm isnt always immediate or it takes time for the damage to 
be noticed, I think it would be reasonable to consider the conditions a week before the 
internal damage was noticed. As the gusts of wind reported were within Admirals definition, 
Im happy that storm conditions were present at or around the time of the reported incident. 
So, I will consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
When a claim is made its the responsibility of the claimant to show damage has occurred. 
When there are significant winds, it can result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing 
them to become dislodged. However, the kitchen roof was a flat felted roof, so we havent 
seen this happen here. 
Occasionally, in particularly exposed locations you may see a felt roof blown off due to the 
storm conditions. However, I havent seen any evidence provided by Mr D that there was 
damage to his roof because of the storm. I have viewed the picture that is available of the 
roof and it looks in good condition, there are no signs that the felt has become detached.
Its not enough for Mr D to say his roof was leaking, he needs to identify where the damage 
to the roof is that he is claiming for and provide evidence why he thinks the storm caused the 
damage (e.g. pictures and a report from his own expert).
I dont think Mr D has provided evidence that there is visible damage caused by the storm. 
So, I think its more likely that if the rainwater did enter the property through the roof, then its 
also more likely this was caused by either wear and tear as Admiral has suggested or even 
poor workmanship. Neither which would be covered by the policy. Therefore, I dont think 
Admiral has been unreasonable in declining this claim.
If Mr D can provide new evidence that the storm did cause damage to his roof, then I would 
expect Admiral to re-consider the claim based upon this evidence. Mr D would need to 
provide specific photographs of the damage and ideally his evidence would be accompanied 
by a report from his own expert roofing contractor. However, based on the evidence 
provided, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr D disagreed with my initial thinking and he provided some additional information to 
support his complaint. Mr D said he engaged his own specialist roofer to provide a report on 
the condition of his property and this has provided. He said the roofer confirmed the storm 
caused some roof tiles to be displaced on his main roof, which led to water entering his 
home causing further internal damage. Mr D said the leak wasnt from the flat roof.
Mr Ds additional information was shared with Admiral and it was asked to consider and 
respond to this. Admiral responded and said it didnt have anything further to add in relation 
to the appeal. It said it worked with the surveyors report provided by its contractor.
My provisional decision (second provisional decision)
I issued a second provisional decision on this on 6 December 2022. I said:
When I set out my first provisional decision, I didnt feel that Mr D had provided sufficient 
evidence the storm had damaged his property. However, I have reviewed the information Mr 
D has provided in his response and this has changed my thinking, so I will re-consider the second and third questions I set out at the start of my first provisional decision.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I originally said there wasnt any evidence the storm had caused any damage to Mr Ds 
property. However, Mr D has clarified that the storm dislodged some tiles from his main roof. 
I think wind strength recorded around the time of the reported incident would be sufficient to 
blow tiles or dislodge tiles from a roof. Therefore, I will now consider the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Admiral said in its final response the [surveyors] report states that the cause of the water 
ingress is wear and tear, which is also covered within your policy booklet, under criteria 
where a claim is rejected:
Gradual causes - any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including 
wear and tear....
If you can supply a surveyors report that contradicts this, we will reinvestigate this point for 
you.
Given Admiral has relied on an exclusion clause in the policy to decline the claim, I would 
need to see strong evidence that supports its viewpoint. However, I dont think it has 
provided this evidence, so I intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why I have 
reached this decision.
I have reviewed the surveyors report provided by Admiral. I dont find this persuasive of 
wear and tear at all. The inspection report doesnt mention wear and tear and there is no 
commentary within the report. Admiral later confirmed after further review and a visit from 
our Surveyor the evidence suggests that this is not a one-off event. There is blistering 
around the window in the bedroom which does suggest this is something that has occurred 
gradually over a period of time and there is water pooling on the roof also.
I dont find this later statement persuasive. I think if the surveyor had these observations, 
then these should have been clearly set out in the report with a professional explanation as 
to why wear and tear was the correct conclusion. I dont think Admiral has been reasonable 
in declining the claim based on the limited information contained in the surveyors report.
In its final response Admiral said it would re-consider the claim if Mr D provided contradictory 
evidence. This evidence was provided by Mr D by his own specialist roofer and shared with 
Admiral. Unfortunately, Admiral said it only considered its own surveyors report. I dont think 
this is a fair approach to this claim. It hasnt done what it said it would and consider this 
information.
I have considered this information. Mr Ds roofer said water damage on kitchen ceiling and 
walls was caused by tiles blown loose and ripping the felt above the upstairs en-suite 
bathroom which was not noticed by [the surveyor]. Water from the main house roof has run 
through the brickwork causing water damage to the kitchen ceiling and wall. [Admirals 
surveyor] advised the owners of the property to secure tarpaulin to the undamaged flat roof. 
This now requires felting due to the battens used to secure the tarpaulin cover. The main 
house roof has been fixed and the lead flashings re-fitted.
I find the roofers report more persuasive. The commentary explains what has happened and 
supports what I can see in the photographs provided by Mr D. Therefore, I dont think 
Admiral has been fair in declining this claim. I dont think Admiral has proven wear and tear. And I think Mr D has proven the storm was the main cause of the damage. Therefore, I 
intend for Admiral to settle this claim  including:  the costs already incurred for the repairs 
carried out to the main roof (on production of valid receipts) and for repairs to the internal 
damage caused by the storm. As Admiral hasnt provided evidence of wear and tear, there 
shouldnt be costs excluded for this. As Mr D has been without the money hes paid out for 
repairs to his main roof, I intend Admiral to add 8% simple interest to this (from the date the 
claim was made to the date it is settled).
I have considered the damage that was caused to the flat roof due to the tarpaulin temporary 
solution that was advised to Mr D. I think if Admiral had settled the claim as it shouldve done 
then this damage wouldnt have occurred. Therefore, I intend for Admiral to settle the 
damage that has been made to the flat roof  either by repair if its possible or replacement if 
its not. I also intend for Admiral to refund the cost of the temporary solution (on production of 
valid receipts), as the expert roofer said the battens from this solution caused the damage. 
As Mr D has been without the money hes paid for this, I intend Admiral to add 8% simple 
interest (from the date the claim was made to the date it is settled).
Finally, I think the delays in settling the claim and Admirals unwillingness to consider the 
evidence Mr D has put forward from his own roofer will have caused Mr D some distress and 
inconvenience. The delay in the internal repairs will have meant Mr Ds property hasnt been 
put back to the condition he would be satisfied with. Therefore, I intend to award £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this wouldve been a 
frustrating time for Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D accepted my provisional decision.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Settle this claim  including:
othe costs already incurred for the repairs carried out to the main roof (on 
production of valid receipts), plus 8% simple interest (from the date the claim 
was made to the date it is settled), and 
ofor the repairs to the internal damage caused by the storm (there shouldnt be 
costs excluded for wear and tear)
Settle the damage that has been made to the flat roof by the temporary tarpaulin 
solution - either by repair if its possible or replacement if its not
Refund the cost of the temporary solution (on production of valid receipts), plus 8% 
simple interest (from the date the claim was made to the date it is settled)
Pay Mr D £300 compensation - for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Pete AverillOmbudsman