DRN-3998873
The complaint
Mr P complains about how the information given by Automobile Association Insurance 
Services Limited (AAISL) when he called to claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P was involved in an accident in his car. The next morning, he called his insurance broker 
(AAISL) to claim on his motor insurance policy for the damage to his car.
Instead of claiming on his car insurance policy Mr P was referred to a non-fault accident
management company (AMC). At the same time, he was provided with an After the Event
(ATE) insurance policy with another insurer. The ATE policy covers Mr P for the recovery of 
his car, repairs to his car, storage for his car and the cost to hire a replacement car while his 
is repaired and is separate to his motor insurance policy. 
Mr P opted to be referred to an AMC and use the ATE policy. His car was deemed a total 
loss, but the third party didnt accept liability, so he was referred to his motor insurer to claim 
for his car. Unhappy with how the claim was progressing Mr P complained. He said hed 
been given incorrect information when he called to claim and wasnt happy with
how the claim was being handled. In particular he said hed been told in the call to AAISL 
that his motor insurer wouldnt cover his claim and had to keep repeating the details of the 
claim to different departments. 
AAISL reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It agreed Mr P hadnt been given correct 
information in the call where he was referred to the AMC. In particular AAISL said Mr P 
hadnt been given correct information that he could claim on his motor insurance policy. 
AAISL also dealt with Mr Ps complaint points about the ATE policy and for both issues 
offered £150 compensation. Unhappy with AAISLs response, Mr P referred his complaint 
here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found the final response letter covered the
actions of AAISL and those of the ATE provider. As theyre different legal entities she divided
the compensation in half to account for each partys errors, £75 for each businesses error. 
Our investigator found that AAISLs compensation wasnt sufficient to compensate Mr P for 
its errors and recommended it be increased by £75, bringing the total to £150. 
AAISL responded and queried which compensation was split between it and
ATE provider. As AAISL hasnt agreed to our investigators outcome the complaint has been
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I feel it would help to explain that Mr Ps complaint covers three
different businesses who are separate legal entities. Because of this weve had to split his
complaint and set each part of them up against each business responsible for the different 
aspects. 
Mr P made the first notification of loss call to his broker, AAISL, to report the claim. That 
aspect is the subject of this decision. Im aware AAISL also acts as an agent for the ATE 
provider. While the final response letter covers the first notification of loss call and the 
actions of the ATE provider, as theyre separate legal entities, they must be considered 
separately.
In doing so in this decision I will only be looking at what AAISL is responsible for when Mr P 
called to report the claim. Im aware we also have two other complaints, one against the ATE 
provider and one against his car insurer about when the claim was passed back to them to 
deal with.
As Mr Ps insurance broker, AAISL was obliged to provide Mr P with information that
was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr P contacted AAISL to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his car, AAISL ought 
to have provided him with clear information about his options, so he could decide how best 
to proceed with getting his car repaired.
AAISL agreed in its final response letter that it didnt explain Mr P options to him clearly and 
also gave him incorrect information. Ive also listened to the call and agree AAISL didnt 
explain Mr Ps options to him as it should have. Its clear this caused Mr P unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. This resulted in him questioning what his motor insurance policy 
covered and also meant he agreed to use the AMC and utilise the ATE policy when he might 
not have if things had been properly explained. I can see Mr Ps claim was passed back to 
his motor insurer as the third party didnt accept liability, however Mr P has also raised 
concerns about having to keep repeating the circumstances of the claim. Therefore, to 
compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience of not explaining his options clearly and 
correctly, AAISL should pay Mr P an additional £75, on top of the £75 already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require by Automobile 
Association Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr P an additional £75 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman