DRN-1727899
 
The complaint
 Mr M runs a limited company called M. Mr M is unhappy that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) removed Ms online business account. They agreed there had been an error but Mr M 
feels the compensation they have offered isnt reasonable.  
 
What happened
Mr M didnt have access to Ms online business account for a week, so he raised a complaint 
with RBS on 28 February 2019 as he needed to make an online payment but didnt have any 
way of doing so. Mr M says he was told to complete a form but without any explanation for 
what had happened. He says he completed it and on 1 March he received a telephone call 
from RBS to say that he didnt need to complete the form and would receive an authorisation 
code within the next few days to reactivate Ms online business account. He says he didnt 
receive the code.
 
RBS wrote to Mr M on 2 March and apologised for the service and Ms online business 
account being removed. They said the problem had been fixed and offered £200 
compensation and £20 as reimbursement for telephone calls he had made.   
    
Mr M says a week later Ms online business account had again been removed. He says he 
received an email on 17 March with a new online banking customer number and asking him 
to register again for online business banking. He says he completed this process and 
received a text message on 19 March with an activation code which then allowed him to 
view Ms online business account on 21 March. He says he has never been told why Ms 
online business account had been removed twice. 
Mr M wrote to RBS on 10 April and received a response on 8 May. The response said that 
they had been unable to find out what caused Ms online account to be removed but 
believed it to be a bank error. They apologised and said the £220 already offered was fair. In 
dealing with the complaint, an internal enquiry was made at RBS with a Technical Specialist 
team to find out why Ms online account had been removed. This identified that Ms account 
was dropped automatically by their system on 10 February but they had no way of seeing 
why this had happened.  
 
Mr M says due to his job, he needs to have access to Ms online business account at all 
times. He doesnt have a local branch to deal with banking matters. Mr M says that he was 
unable to manage his payments until he was back online which meant payments had to be 
delayed until the situation was resolved. He was told to complete a form and then later told 
this was unnecessary. He was told an authorisation code would be sent but didnt receive 
this or a return call. He is concerned that Ms online account was removed twice.  
Our investigator looked into things for M and agreed there had been an error here. He felt 
that RBS had done everything it could to try and find out what had happened and that the 
£220 offered was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided RBSs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. Ill explain why. 
The information shows there was an error by RBS. Although they did manage to find out that 
Ms account had been automatically removed, its unfortunate they werent able to find out 
why this happened. This would have helped Mr M understand the reasons and perhaps 
might have allowed RBS to give him some reassurance about any steps they could take to 
try and avoid this happening again. That said, I am of the view that RBS did make enquiries 
to find out what led to Ms account being removed and the reason for this. 
Ive agreed there has been an error by RBS so I will now consider whether the offer put 
forward by them is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to settle the complaint. 
The information I have seen shows that the problem with the online account first started on 
10 February and was resolved on 21 March. This is a period of about six weeks during which 
time Mr M says he couldnt make payments. Its understandable this has caused frustration 
and concern particularly as Mr M didnt have a local branch which he could attend to sort out 
any payments. This has led to the inconvenience of having to delay any payments until the 
problem was resolved. While I feel an award should reflect this, I havent seen any 
information which would lead me to take the view that the impact was significant. Examples 
of this might be, someone who was chased repeatedly for payment and threatened with 
court action, or someone who had to pay charges for any late payments.    
I accept Mr M was frustrated with this account being removed twice and this led him to 
complain on both occasions. The second occasion will have concerned Mr M more given 
that it happened a short while after he had been told the issue with Ms account had been 
resolved. Mr M also says he was told to complete a form which he later discovered was 
unnecessary and also not receiving an authorisation code. These are factors which did 
cause inconvenience at a time when Mr M was worried about Ms account. 
Taking these points into account, I agree an award should reflect the worry and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M. I have also taken account of the relatively short period of 
time the problem continued and there being no evidence of a greater impact on Mr M. I feel 
that the offer put forward by RBS is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc have already made an offer to pay £200 compensation, and £20 
reimbursement for telephone calls Mr M has had to make, to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay £220 to M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman