DRN-2759402
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) cancelled his 
account without reason.
What happened
Mr H holds a Blue American Express (Amex) credit card. He says that he did not receive his 
statements for three months and was unable to contact Amex via the telephone due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdown. As a result, Mr H says he was unable to make 
his monthly payments. Amex has since closed his account and recorded details about the 
missed payments on his credit file.
 
Amex says that Mr H missed three consecutive monthly payments towards the end of 2019 
and start of 2020. And, as a result, it cancelled his account on 19 February 2020 in line with 
the terms the account. 
Unhappy with Amexs response, Mr H referred his complaint to us. He maintained he had 
not received anything in writing from Amex and said he wanted the account reinstated.  
One of our investigators looked into what Mr H had said. But she didnt think Amex had done 
anything wrong. She noted that Mr H had enrolled for paperless statements. So, she thought 
Mr H would have received his statements via email and the he ought to have been 
reasonably aware of when his payments were due. And she thought Amex had followed the 
correct procedures when cancelling Mr Hs account due to non-payment. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint.  
Mr H initially responded to query whether the default and account closure letters were sent 
to him in the post. He said he didnt dispute that letters may have been sent but he thought it 
was important to explain that he hadnt received any correspondence. 
The investigator looked into this and confirmed that Amex had provided evidence to show 
that several letters had been posted to Mr H in December 2019 and January and February 
2020. She noted that Amex had later added a mail suppression feature on Mr Hs account, 
as this mail - sent to the billing address it held for Mr H, had been returned undelivered. 
But she also explained that Amex had provided evidence that after this it was attempting to 
contact Mr H via text message and email. So, she didnt think this made a difference to the 
outcome she had reached.
Mr H disagreed. He maintained that he had not received any postal correspondence from 
Amex about the status of his account or Amexs intentions to close it. He felt his account 
should be reinstated. 
As Mr H disagreed with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator for broadly 
the same reasons. In order to uphold this complaint, I would have to find that Amex has 
done something wrong or treated Mr H unfairly - and I dont think it did. I know Mr H will be 
disappointed with my decision because I can see how strongly he feels about the matter, so 
Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt receive his statements so was unable to make his monthly payments. 
But as the investigator has explained, Amex has provided its records to show that Mr H 
opted for paperless statements (statements sent by email) in September 2019. So, Im 
satisfied that from this date Amex wasnt required to send statements via the postal system. 
Ive looked at the records of the emails sent to Mr H and I can see  for the period in 
question, the email subject line says: statement ready and payment overdue'. And Amex 
has provided evidence to show emails were sent to the same email address we hold for     
Mr H. So, Im satisfied emails were sent and that they were sent to the correct email 
address. And from the email subject line, I think Mr H ought to have been aware his 
statement was enclosed and that a payment was due. Ive also looked at the content of the 
statements that were in the email. And Im satisfied these show the status of the account, the 
payments were due and the consequences of not bring the account up to date. So, I dont 
think Amex did anything wrong here. 
Mr H has questioned whether Amex sent correspondence relating to the default and closure 
of the account to him the post. As the investigator explained, Amex has also shown that it 
sent default correspondence by post to Mr H. That said, Amex has also shown that this mail 
was returned undelivered. As mail was returned undelivered, I think it was reasonable by 
Amex to place a mail suppression marker on Mr Hs account. Such action prevents personal 
mail  enclosing personal information, isnt at risk of being opened by a third party. 
But Ive looked carefully at the records Amex held in relation to Mr Hs postal address to see 
if the correspondence was sent to the address it held for him. And Im satisfied that it did.  
The records show that Mr H didnt update his address with Amex until August 2020  after 
the default letters were sent. So, while Mr H didnt receive the correspondence sent, I dont 
think Amex can be held responsible if it wasnt successfully delivered as it was sent to the 
address Amex held for Mr H at the time. In any event, as the investigator explained, Amex 
has shown it continued to contact Mr H by email. Given mail had been returned undelivered, 
I think it was reasonable for Amex to continue to try to contact Mr H by other methods. And 
as mentioned above, Amex has shown the emails were sent to the correct email address, so 
I think Mr H ought reasonably to be aware of the situation with his account.  
Mr H says he was unable to contact Amex because of the pandemic and associated 
lockdown. However, the missed payments and account closure all happened before the UK 
lockdown in late March 2020. So, I cant see any reason why Mr H would have experienced 
undue problems contacting Amex at the time the events in this complaint happened. And I 
can see he was able to raise his complaint with Amex in April 2020. So, I like its most likely 
that Mr H could have contacted Amex although I accept call waiting times may have been 
longer than normal due to the pandemic. 
As mentioned above, I can see from the statements pertaining to Mr Hs account that several 
payments werent made. In this respect, the terms of Mr Hs account, which he agreed to when opening the account say we may end this agreement immediately if you repeatedly 
fail to pay minimum payments. So, Im also satisfied that Amex didnt do anything wrong 
when it decided to end Mr Hs account.
Lenders are required to provide data to the credit reference agencies (CRA) which 
accurately reflects how credit accounts are managed. As Mr H missed payments that were 
rightfully due, I think Amex acted correctly in recording this on Mr Hs credit file with the 
CRA.   
Overall, I dont think Amex made any significant mistakes in dealing with Mr Hs account. As 
such, there are no grounds on which I can tell Amex to reinstate his account or remove any 
adverse data recorded on his credit file.    
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman