DRN-3187478
The complaint
Miss M complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined her travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss M bought a Puffin Silver Annual Multi-Trip travel insurance policy with 
cover from 22 August 2019 to 21 August 2020. URV was the insurer.
In February 2019 Miss M booked a trip abroad from 21 March 2020 to 4 April 2020.
On 14 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) (formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel to 
Miss Ms holiday destination due to Covid-19. On that same day the airline cancelled 
Miss Ms flight and she cancelled the holiday accommodation which shed booked 
independently. The FCDO advice remained in place on Miss Ms intended departure date.
The airline refunded Miss M the cost of her flight. The accommodation provider refused to 
refund her £650 accommodation cost so she claimed on the policy for that cost.
URV declined the claim saying the circumstances which Miss M found herself werent 
covered under the terms and conditions of the insurance policy.
Miss M complained to us. She said she couldnt go on her trip because the airline cancelled 
her flight, it wasnt that she chose to cancel due to the FCDO advice.
Our investigator said it would be fair and reasonable for URV to pay the unrecoverable 
accommodation cost.
URV disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.]
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which the insurer has provided as 
relating to Miss Ms policy says:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy says on page 13 under the heading Your 
pretravel policy - If you are unable to go on your trip that URV will pay up to £1,250 
unrecoverable accommodation costs if Miss M was unable to travel because:
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law
you or a travel companion being made redundant
of the requirements of HM forces.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Miss M says she had to cancel her trip because the airline cancelled the flight not because 
of FCDO advice. But I think its probable that the airline cancelled the flight due to the FCDO 
advice against all but essential travel to her intended destination, so in effect Miss M had to 
cancel because of that advice.
Cancellation due to FCDO advice isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which 
cancellation cover is provided.
There is no section of the policy which provides cover for the circumstances Miss M found 
herself in. This means I dont think the claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the 
case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict interpretation of the 
policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
Miss M to be left in a position where she had no cover for cancelling the trip due to a change 
in FCDO advice but to also have no cover if shed gone ahead and travelled in the event that 
it was possible for her to do so.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Miss M and the URV says on 
page 12 under the exclusions heading that Miss Ms not covered under any section for:
You travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
The policy also contains a specific exclusion under the cancellation section of cover. 
Page 13 of the terms and conditions of the policy says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable 
at the time of your departure.
So the cancellation section of the policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims made 
because of FCDO advice.
I think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion of cover for 
cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be prominent in the IPID. 
However, Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions which form the contract of 
insurance between Miss M and URV. As Ive outlined above the exclusion in relation to the 
lack of cover for the advice or recommendation of the FCDO was referred to in the general 
summary of conditions and exclusions. It was also specifically highlighted in the cancellation 
section of the policy.
Although Miss M may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if she 
travelled and also having no cover if she cancelled, I think these exclusions are clearly and 
transparently set out in the terms and conditions of her policy.
It was up to Miss M to ensure she had the level of cover she required to meet her needs and 
if she wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, I think its likely she 
couldve found another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation she found 
herself.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I dont think her claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of her policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which 
I could fairly ask URV to accept her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
URV didnt respond. Miss M didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said she couldnt 
be expected to have bought insurance which covered the FCDO advice as Covid-19 wasnt 
known about when she took out the policy. She was disappointed that Id not upheld her 
complaint when our investigator had upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M did take out this policy before Covid-19 was a known issue. But cancellation due to 
any FCDO advice or recommendation at the time of her departure was excluded from cover, 
not just advice relating to Covid-19. So I still think Miss M couldve found another policy on the market which wouldve covered FCDO advice or recommendation if shed wanted such 
cover. As Ive explained above, I think the exclusion was clear in the policy documents.
I appreciate Miss M is disappointed that Ive come to a different conclusion to our 
investigator. But we have a two tier process so if one party doesnt agree with our 
investigators recommendation they can ask for an ombudsmans decision. For the reasons 
Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I think URV fairly declined the claim 
and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman