DRN-4018379
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr B holds with Santander UK Plc. He says Santander 
misled him about how a payment arrangement to clear arrears would be reported on his 
credit file.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in correspondence, so there is 
no need for me to repeat all of the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr B being identified. So for these reasons, I will give a brief summary of the 
main points and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
In December 2021, Mr B set up a payment arrangement with Santander by phone. The aim 
of this was to pay more than his regular contractual payment, to begin reducing 
long-standing arrears that had accrued over time. He says that during this call, Santander 
told him his credit file would be cleared of adverse entries, but it has continued to report the 
account as being more than six months in arrears. Mr B says this is preventing him from 
obtaining credit to buy equipment he needs for his employment. 
Our investigator couldnt rule out the possibility that Santander had given Mr B wrong 
information in the call, but on balance, thought it more likely the bank had informed him 
correctly. More importantly, the investigator didnt think Santander had reported anything 
wrongly on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Mr B has said that hed like a discussion with me about his complaint before I determine it. 
That wouldnt be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr B a one-sided personal hearing 
to press his case directly without the business being involved and being able to contribute.
 
On the rare occasions we conduct a direct hearing, it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present. Anything else would be procedurally unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from the parties.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
The starting point here is that lenders are permitted to report information about borrowers 
payment behaviour with credit reference agencies, and where they choose to do so, are 
required to record information that is factually accurate. Overall, Im satisfied Mr B had been 
made aware of this before the events giving rise to the complaint. The requirement to record 
payment data with credit reference agencies is incorporated into a mortgage contract. 
Against that backdrop, I can only order Santander to amend or remove a disputed marker if 
it was factually incorrect or, even if factually correct, arose from an error on Santanders part. 
Having looked at the information Mr B has provided about what is on his credit file, I cant 
conclude that the above test has been met. Ill explain why.
The entries on a credit file represent a rolling history of the previous six years worth of 
payment behaviour. Each time a new entry is made for the month that has just passed, the 
oldest entry form six years earlier drops off. In Mr Bs case, the arrears are long-standing 
and historic, so even if he keeps to his arrangement in full every month, it will take up to six 
years for the payment record to show as fully maintained and up to date.
In addition to the payment history, a lender also reports the status of an account; i.e. whether 
and to what degree it is in arrears. The degree of arrears is reported in terms of how many 
months worth of payments the arrears total represents. To illustrate that, if a mortgage has 
arrears of £2,000 and the monthly payment is £400, the status of the account will be 
reported as five months in arrears. 
That doesnt necessarily mean five monthly payments have been missed. Also, it doesnt 
mean that if Mr B maintains a payment arrangement in full and on time every month for six 
years, the account status will be reported as up to date. If some arrears still exist at that 
point, then they would still need to be reported at that time.
Having explained why Im not persuaded Santanders reporting on Mr Bs credit file is wrong, 
Ill now turn to the issue of whether he was misled about what would be reported when he 
entered into the payment arrangement. Sadly, its not been possible to listen to the call in 
which Mr B says this happened. This was due to a technical failing that rendered the 
recording unplayable. Thats regrettable, however I dont think the outcome of the complaint 
turns on what happened during that conversation.  Again, Ill explain why.
I cant categorically say Santander didnt mislead Mr B in the call to set up the payment 
arrangement, but on balance it seems unlikely that it would tell Mr B something that is 
completely contrary to what is an industry-wide practice. But even if I take at face value 
Mr Bs assertion that this did happen, two things come to mind.
Firstly, the true position was explained to Mr B in the letter of 27 January 2022 which said 
the following:We must also make you aware that Santander UK Plc is required to report your arrears and 
this arrangement to Credit Reference Agencies.
Secondly, Im not sure how a misleading statement about how a payment arrangement 
would affect credit file reporting, if made, would have changed what Mr B did, or how his 
position would be different from what it currently is. It seems to me more likely than not that 
he would still have entered into the payment arrangement, whether or not he was informed 
accurately about how it would appear on his credit file.
I understand Mr Bs frustration at not being able to obtain credit in order to acquire 
equipment he needs for his employment. That must be immensely frustrating for him, and 
Im not unsympathetic. However, its important to remember that potential creditors will 
consider his entire financial position, not just the payment record on his mortgage when 
deciding whether to offer him credit. 
In conclusion, I appreciate the difficult situation Mr B is in; but for the reasons Ive set out, 
hes not in that position because of something Santander did or failed to do. Thats why his 
complaint doesnt succeed, however much he would wish it to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman