DRN-4333558
The complaint
Mr M complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited caused delays when he was transferring
his Self-Invested Personal Pension to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme
(QROPS). As a result of the delays Mr M says he will have to pay an additional social
security charge.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 August 2023. Ive reproduced the 
relevant parts of it below, and it forms part of this final decision. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent both parties his
opinion on the complaint in which he set out his understanding of the background and
circumstances to it. Both parties are aware of all the background so I wont repeat it all again
in detail here. But briefly, Mr M had a SIPP which was valued at around £81,000. Hed had
discussions with another firm (which I will refer to as Firm A) about a transfer to a QROPS in
July 2021. Mr M was told if the transfer was completed before 31 December 2021 he would
be exempt from paying a particular social security charge in his country of residence.
Suffolk Life (trading under a different name but I will refer to as Suffolk Life for consistency)
received the relevant signed transfer documentation on 3 November 2021. Suffolk Life wrote
to Mr M on 12 November 2021 confirming that it had received his transfer application. It said
it had a duty to carry out checks on the pension scheme that Mr M was intending to transfer
to. This was to ensure it met with HM Revenue and Customs requirements and was a
recognised overseas pension transfer. It also e-mailed Mr M to complete and return some
additional paperwork which he did on the same day.
Firm A chased Suffolk Life on 22 November 2021 and the firm says it identified it needed
some further information  a certificate of company incorporation and a bank statement for
the scheme.
This was requested on 1 December 2021.The case was sent to senior management for
sign-off on 5 December 2021. Suffolk Life provided instructions to the provider of the
underlying investments in the SIPP to disinvest on 14 December 2021. Suffolk Life
contacted it on 17, 21 and 29 December to chase the matter.
Mr M had in the meantime been in contact with Suffolk Life to chase the transfer himself. He
had both e-mail and telephone contact on 17 December 2021 where he explained that he 
needed the transfer to complete in the current calendar year in order to avoid having to pay
the social security charge (9%). He had further discussions in telephone conversations with
Suffolk Life in late December 2021 leading up the deadline date. However the request to
disinvest wasnt processed until 6 January 2022.
My understanding is that Suffolk Life received the funds on 13 January 2022, but it still
needed further information from the investment fund manager. It chased this on 26 January
2022 but didnt receive it until 11 February 2022 and payment of the funds to the new
provider was made on 18 February 2022. A small further payment was sent to the new
provider on 21 March 2022.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In brief, he didnt
think that Suffolk Life was responsible for any undue delays given that the transfer was to a
QROPS and Suffolk Life had to carry out appropriate due diligence on the receiving scheme.
The investigator didnt think that Suffolk Life had been alerted to the urgency of the transfer
(Mr Ms requirements for it to be completed before 31 December 2021) until 17 December
2021. And by that time Suffolk Life was reliant on the funds to be disinvested by the
investment provider  and this was ultimately completed too late.
The investigator acknowledged that Suffolk Life had accepted that it could have provided
better communications through the process and it had given Mr M £100 compensation for
that failing. But overall he didnt think that had caused a delay in the transfer itself, and he
didnt think Suffolk Life was responsible for any undue delays in processing it.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. He provided further submissions which I
have considered in my provisional findings outlined below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms wife has also complained about the delay to her transfer in very similar
circumstances. There were some slight differences in the circumstances, but I dont think
they are largely material and so I havent gone into detail about them. Where I think
something was material I have referred to it below.
Like the investigator, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Suffolk Life was alerted to
the 31 December 2021 deadline prior to 17 December 2021. Suffolk Life has a written note
of the conversation it had with Firm A on 8 November 2021. But it doesnt mention any
deadline. And Suffolk Life dont have a recording of that conversation.
And whilst its clear that Mr M alerted Suffolk Life to the deadline on 17 December 2021, I
dont think its clear it was alerted on 10 December 2021 as has been suggested. Suffolk Life
doesnt have a record of Mr Ms contact on that date. There was an exchange of e-mails
between Firm A and Suffolk Life on 13 December 2021 where Firm A said it had tried to
contact Suffolk Life that morning asking for a timeframe for the completion of the transfer; a
Suffolk Life internal e-mail on 14 December 2021 asking for the transfers to be completed as
a priority; and an e-mail to Firm A dated 15 December 2021 saying it had asked the relevant
team to prioritise chasing the investment managers for disinvestment. So Suffolk Life were
aware to treat the transfers as a priority on 14 December 2021 in any event. Whilst I accept
that the request to prioritise may have resulted from an unrecorded telephone conversation it
may also just have been the result of Firm As chasing e-mail.
Whilst I agree with the investigator that Suffolk Life wasnt responsible for any significant 
delays, I do think it could have acted in a timelier manner in some instances. In particular
Suffolk Life wrote to Mr M on 12 November 2021 confirming that it had received his transfer
application. But my understanding is it didnt request any further information until 1
December 2021. So I think this took a few more working days than was reasonable.
However, as Ive said above, Suffolk Life didnt receive the initial fund until 13 January 2022.
And then it also required some further information to complete the transfer. Even if it had
requested that information urgently and received it back promptly, it would still likely have
added another day or two to the process. So overall, I dont think those few working dayswhere Suffolk Life could have acted in a timelier manner were the cause of the deadline
being missed  I dont think there was any guarantee it would have been met but for those
few days.
Mr M had a telephone conversation with the firm on 24 December 2021. The firm hasnt got
an actual recording of this call. However a note of it includes:
explained that any delays we or the investment manager would be looked into and any
financial detriment including the 9% tax charge should we not be able to complete before
EOY.
Mr M sent an e-mail to the firm on 29 December 2021. It said, amongst other things:
Should the funds not be available for transfer by Wednesday, 29 December, which should
remain the objective, you committed for [Suffolk Life] to subsequently make good the [name
of country of residence] social security once assessed by the [name of country of residence]
tax authorities.
The e-mail from the firm to Mr M in response dated 30 December 2021 said, amongst other
things:
I write with reference to your email below as well as our conversations this afternoon and
yesterday. I can confirm that despite us chasing for the information we needed from the
Investment Manager, we have unfortunately not received confirmation of the cash values we
are due to receive which would have allowed us to prefund the balance in time to make a
payment that would reach your new provider by the end of the year.
Once the transfer has completed we will produce a full timeline of the transfer which will
involve us contacting the investment managers involved as well as the receiving scheme so
that we can establish a detailed and true reflection of your transfer which will allow us to
understand why the 31 December deadline has not been met. This will allow us to work out
any appropriate compensation owed to you and [Mr Ms wife] and allow us to ensure this is
paid to you by the appropriate party in relation to the tax burden you would incur as a result
of this deadline not being met.
In my view Mr M was clearly led to believe that if he went ahead with the transfer he would
be compensated for any costs arising from missing the 31 December 2021 deadline. I dont
think this binds the firm to paying him compensation as it says it will effectively look into the
matter and pay any appropriate compensation. It appears that Suffolk Life, having looked
into the matter, doesnt think compensation is appropriate.
However I think it was reasonable for Mr M to believe he would be, adequately protected,
and hed be compensated, so wouldnt have needed to think about cancelling the transfer
(irrespective of whether it was suggested by Suffolk Life or Firm A). Ive therefore gone on to
consider whether Mr M would likely have gone ahead with the transfer knowing it wouldnt be
completed before the 31 December 2021 deadline and he would therefore be subject to the 
tax charge.
On the face of it, there appear to be benefits to the transfer despite incurring the charge. And
this is consistent with Mr M confirming he would probably have gone ahead with the transfer
in any event. So although I think Mr M was misled into believing that Suffolk Life would
compensate him if the deadline wasnt met, I think he would more likely than not have gone
ahead with the transfer even knowing that wasnt the case. I think its also worth pointing out
that if I thought Mr M wouldnt likely have gone ahead with the transfer the remedy for being
misled into doing something he wouldnt otherwise have done would be to put him back intothe original position i.e. comparing the relative positions if Mr M hadnt transferred which, if
the transfer is ultimately more advantageous, may not show a financial loss in any event.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the transfer not being completed by the 31
December 2021 deadline was a result of errors by Suffolk Life. However I do think Mr M
would have reasonably believed that Suffolk Life would make good on the charge following
the transfer. So I do think that having being led to believe that he would be compensated,
but then be told he wouldnt, would have caused additional distress and inconvenience to Mr
M. He thought there wasnt going to be a problem with the charge but then discovered he
was going to be liable for payment of what is likely to be a considerable sum. This would
reasonably cause a lot of worry and distress, as well as the inconvenience arising from
sorting the matter out.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that as well as Suffolk Life Pensions Limited paying
Mr M £100 in light of the poor communication through the transfer process, it should also
pay him an additional £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused for misleading him
into thinking it would compensate him for the charge. So in total it should pay Mr M £500
(less any payment already made).
I asked Mr M and Suffolk Life Pensions Limited to let me have any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr M said that he was disappointed with my provisional decision, albeit reluctantly accepted 
it. He also provided a copy of an e-mail that he had sent to Firm A dated Friday 10 
December 2021. The e-mail referred to a conversation hed had with Suffolk Life on that date 
about the importance of the year-end deadline. He said this therefore showed that Suffolk 
Life knew  at the latest  of the deadline on 10 December 2021, which was five additional 
working days before the 17 December 2021 date Id referred to in my provisional decision. 
He said Suffolk Life had promised the funds within 10 working days from the initial instruction 
given to the asset manager on 15 December 2021, but that they hadnt been received until 
21 February 2022. This showed something was clearly awry with Suffolk Lifes process.
Suffolk Life Pensions Limited said it would increase its offer in line with the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
The e-mail from Mr M to Firm A dated 10 December 2021 did say that he had spoken to 
Suffolk Life that morning and that the person he had spoken to knows (now?) about the 
extra social security and confirmed, as far as she knew, nothing was outstanding from either 
you or us. 
So I accept its highly likely that Mr M did alert Suffolk Life to the charge on 10 December 
2021, even though Suffolk Life hasnt got a record of that conversation. However Suffolk Life 
was aware to treat the transfers as a priority on 14 December 2021 in any event. 10 
December 2021 was a Friday. And as I said in my provisional decision, although I think 
Suffolk Life could have acted in a timelier manner in some instances, overall I dont think those few working days where it could have been timelier were the cause of the deadline 
being missed. Even taking into account the additional working days here, I still dont think it 
was more likely than not that the deadline would have been met but for those few days when 
taking the overall circumstances into account.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that as well as Suffolk Life Pensions Limited paying Mr M 
£100 in light of the poor communication through the transfer process, it should also pay him 
an additional £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused for misleading him into 
thinking it would compensate him for the social security charge. So in total it should pay Mr 
M £500 (less any payment already made). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman