DRN-3374861
The complaint
Mr K complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his claim involving
a leaking pipe under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr K noticed a leak at his home. He contacted Admiral in November to
report the problem. The leak hadnt been located at this point but was thought to be under
the ground floor and possibly caused by a neighbour completing renovation work.
Mr K says Admiral appointed a loss assessor who arranged a video call to assess the
damage. Following which he says there has been a lot of back and forth with the business,
which has delayed the repair work. Mr K says Admiral offered him £2,000 to arrange the
repairs himself. He didnt accept this. Later he says Admiral appointed a surveyor who
determined the work previously identified wasnt sufficient to resolve the problem.
Mr K is concerned that the work has yet to be carried out and further damage is being
caused because of Admirals delays. His insurance premium has increased because of this
claim, but he says he cant shop around because alternative insurers want to know an
estimate for the cost of this claim, which Admiral hasnt provided. He says this is causing him
to worry. Hes also worried about possible issues when re-mortgaging his home.
Mr K says Admiral hasnt provided much assistance in finding alternative accommodation.
He says he expected the business to facilitate this as part of his claim.
Admiral says it agrees that delays have occurred and acknowledges Mr Ks concerns about
the possibility of further damage to the foundations of his home. It says the communication
provided by its loss assessor didnt address the points Mr K raised and it apologises for its
poor communication.
Admiral says it agrees with Mr K that no plan or action or scope of works was produced for
him to review. And there appears to have been a breakdown of communication between its
loss assessor and the contractor it intended to complete the works. It says the cash 
settlement of £2,000 offered in March 2021 would likely have been insufficient to complete
the work required. It says without a scope of works it was incorrect to offer a settlement
payment.
Admiral accepts that no scope of works was provided to Mr K until the second week of July
2021. And this delayed the opportunity to consider alternative accommodation. It says that
due to market conditions it couldnt source suitable accommodation. Admiral says it advised
Mr K to source his own accommodation, but he declined. It says the repair work cannot
commence until alternative accommodation is arranged.
Admiral says it has liaised further with Mr K regarding alternative accommodation. And it has
offered a disruption allowance to cover any additional costs if Mr K needed to travel further
to get to work. In total the business offered £500 compensation for the service failings
identified. Mr K wasnt happy with this offer and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Admiral was at fault for delays in
progressing the claim and for poor communication. But she felt the business had offered fair
compensation for this. She didnt think it behaved unfairly when increasing Mr Ks premium.
As hed made a claim, which can reasonably be expected to increase the cost of insurance.
Our investigator acknowledged Mr K was concerned about delays causing further damage to
his property. Also, that he preferred Admiral to find alternative accommodation for him. She
thought it was reasonable to expect Mr K to take steps to mitigate his losses and cooperate
with the business to find accommodation suitable for his needs. Because of this she didnt
think Admiral need take any further action to resolve his complaint.
Mr K didnt think this was fair. He says Admirals handling of his claim has been poor which
has resulted in the delay in repairs taking place. He says Admiral has done little to help
arrange accommodation. He says he accepted the two properties suggested to him, but that
both fell through. Our investigator didnt change her view and Mr K asked for an ombudsman
to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that Admiral doesnt dispute its handling of Mr Ks claim couldve
been better. It acknowledges the initial offer of a cash payment to settle the claim, wasnt
appropriate given there was no confirmation of the scope of works available at that time.
From the claim notes provided the initial plan was to re-route pipe work to resolve the leak
under the floor, avoiding more invasive excavation work. From the records, Admiral
communicated this to Mr K in mid-March 2021. Given the claim was made in November
2020, this took a sometime to decide. Admiral refers to communication issues between its
contractor and its loss adjustor for these delays.
Mr K emailed some questions for the loss assessor to answer after he was made aware of
the repair plans. Admiral says there was a glitch meaning this email didnt get to the
assessor.
I can see further attempted contacts were logged in March 2021. At this stage Mr K was 
provided with a full scope of works and given the choice to agree to the work or receive a 
settlement payment. He contacted the loss assessor by direct email with questions at the
beginning of April, saying hed been trying to contact him over the last two weeks. He then
gave instructions for Admiral to continue with the repair work as he didnt accept the cash
settlement. The business asked its contractors to speak with him directly to confirm the
required works. But this didnt happen until later in May. Admiral apologised for this delay.
Following further discussions, a joint visit was arranged in June 2021 at Mr Ks home with
Admirals contractors and its loss assessor. A different approach to carry out more invasive
work was agreed at this meeting. This was to excavate the kitchen, remove all contents and
for Mr K to be put in alternative accommodation.From the records a further scope of works was provided to Admiral by its contractors in late
June 2021. This wasnt made available to Mr K until the second week of July. From here the
approach to repairs was agreed.
I have thought about the time taken by Admiral to investigate and provide a scope of works
for the repairs. I acknowledge a less invasive approach was initially considered and this was
later changed. This meant further consideration was required creating delays, but this was
exacerbated by a poor standard of communication on Admirals part.
I think its reasonable to expect the required repair work couldve been confirmed sooner.
The business acknowledges it was at fault here and it has delayed commencement of the
repairs. In the circumstances its fair that Admiral offered Mr K compensation for its poor
handling of his claim. But I dont think its offer fully acknowledges the frustration, distress
and inconvenience caused over this period.
Mr K describes how he spent a considerable amount of time contacting Admiral, and the
difficulties he found getting responses. I think this is reasonably supported by the accounts
provided by both him and the business. As above Admiral concedes it was at fault for the
delays. It took a long time to decide on the required repair, and the communication issues
played a significant part in this delay. Mr K describes how he is worried about the potential
for further damage caused by the ongoing leak. Specifically, what this could mean for the
foundations of the building. I can understand that this this must be distressing for him.
Having considered all this, I think a higher compensation payment is justified, which I will
confirm below.
Repair work cant take place until Mr Ks moves to alternative accommodation. Theres no
dispute that this is something provided for under his policy. I have read through the policy
terms to understand what Admiral is expected to do here. Given, Mr Ks concerns that the
business has done little to help him. The terms say:
Alternative accommodation and loss of rent
Temporary accommodation for you, your family and your pets, while your home is being
repaired.
If your home is not fit to live in due to loss or damage by causes covered under Section 1
- Buildings.
There is little information to explain how alternative accommodation will be arranged. But we
do expect an insurer to act fairly. Its reasonable that Admiral provides assistance and clear
communication when alternative accommodation is needed. Mr K says he contacted the
estate agent in the link Admiral sent to him. But the property it suggested was already taken.
He says one other estate agent has since contacted him and he accepted a property it
offered. But another tenant was accepted ahead of him. He says hes received no other
contact from Admiral regarding alternative accommodation.
Admiral says its prepared to offer a disruption payment if Mr K incurs additional costs. Such
as the location of the accommodation requiring longer journeys to work. Mr K says he told
Admiral hed move anywhere that allowed him to commute by train, if he was working in
London, or by car if working elsewhere. He says the business hasnt listened to him. He also
says its limited its search to a three-mile radius from the location of his house. He says this
isnt necessary and shows it hasnt acted reasonably to arrange accommodation.Mr K says he has one day a week off work and doesnt have the time or resources Admiral
does to try and source accommodation. He also says it hasnt confirmed a budget for this
despite numerous requests.
Its reasonable to expect Mr K to engage effectively with Admiral to arrange accommodation
so works can commence. But based on the evidence provided I think Admiral couldve been
more helpful and proactive in assisting him. This is a stressful time for Mr K given the
ongoing leak and required repairs. But its made worse by the delays in starting the repairs
due to a lack of alternative accommodation.
I think its reasonable that Admiral should assist Mr K to find accommodation. And in
recognition of the poor service, its fair for Admiral to pay him compensation for the additional
distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Finally, I have considered Mr Ks concerns that its unfair for Admiral to have increased his
insurance premium so significantly. And that hes been unable to provide an estimate of the
cost of this claim to other insurers because of the delay in receiving this information. He says
this prevented him obtaining alternative cover.
I have thought about whether Admiral behaved fairly here. Many factors are considered
when an insurer calculates the cost of insurance. Claims history will generally be included in
these calculations. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to consider Mr Ks recent
claim when calculating his renewal premium.
We asked Admiral to provide information to show it treated Mr K fairly when calculating his
renewal. Its underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive information. So, I cant share it.
But I can see that Admiral applied its usual underwriting criteria when calculating Mr Ks
renewal premium. I can understand that hes disappointed to be paying more for his
insurance. But I dont think Admiral has treated him unfairly.
Admiral explained to Mr K in August 2021 that the total repair cost wont be known until the
claim is finalised. It says he can advise any other insurers that the claim is ongoing. It has
since estimated the cost at £40,000 inclusive of alternative accommodation. My
understanding is Mr K can provide this information to alternative insurers.
Given the delay in receiving this information, I think its reasonable that Mr K isnt charged an
administration fee if he chooses to switch insurers.
In summary I dont think Admiral treated Mr K fairly in handling his claim and for its poor
standard of communication. I dont think its behaved reasonably when arranging alternative
accommodation. It should contact Mr K to make these arrangements. Because of these
failings I think an increased compensation payment totalling £750 is reasonable. I dont think
Admiral behaved unfairly when calculating Mr Ks renewal premium. But it should allow him
to seek cover elsewhere without applying an administration charge, for the reasons given 
here.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
-pay a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
-assist Mr K to find alternative accommodation; and
-allow Mr K to cancel his policy, should he wish, without applying administration 
charges.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.Admiral responded with a timeline of its contact with Mr K regarding its efforts to source 
alternative accommodation. It says a review of its timeline shows how it tried to assist Mr K. 
It says he was difficult to get hold of and was also given the option to source his own 
alternative accommodation. 
We supplied a copy of Admirals timeline to Mr K and asked if he had any comments. He 
responded to say the business consistently misquoted his requirement for alternative 
accommodation. All he needed was access to a train station with direct lines to the city for 
his commute. It took six months reiterating this to Admiral before it widened its search area. 
Mr K says Admiral have many times said it tried contacting him, but this isnt the case. He 
says it has been almost impossible to get someone to pick up the phone. If Admiral had 
made the contacts it says, he would have called back. Mr K has little confidence in Admirals 
ability to handle his claim in light of his experience so far. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the timeline provided by Admiral. I also acknowledge its comments that it 
had difficulty finding alternative accommodation options for Mr K, and that he was difficult to 
contact.
The timeline shows it took two months for Admiral to confirm a start date for work to begin. 
This was after it had instructed its agent to find alternative accommodation. Its agent chased 
several time for the start date during this period. This delayed the search for 
accommodation. 
From August 2021 a number of searches were carried out. The notes state Mr Ks rental 
requirements were for, a two bedroom property with one parking space near a train station 
in a 2-3 mile radius of his home. This formed the basis of its search. 
Mr K is adamant that he didnt say the accommodation should be within 3 miles of his 
current home. But rather the alternative accommodation needed to be within 3 miles of a 
train station. The timeline shows the search area was later expanded when Admiral 
struggled to source suitable accommodation. The notes show Mr K was willing to consider 
properties from further afield when this was raised with him. 
Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr K wanted to limit the accommodation 
search to within 2-3 miles of his home. His focus was the proximity of the accommodation to 
a train station. On balance I think its probable that Admirals agent misunderstood, and a 
wider search area couldve been used from the start. 
The timeline shows a number of searches and options were considered in September 2021. 
Albeit none of these were ultimately successful. The notes support Admirals view that the 
availability of suitable accommodation was limited in the immediate and wider search areas. 
The notes show efforts were made to continue searching for accommodation for Mr K. I 
acknowledge Admirals view that Mr K was difficult to contact. But the records provided dont 
support this and Mr K disputes this was the case. 
Having reconsidered all the evidence, in conjunction with the further comments and timeline, 
Im not minded to change my provisional decision. Mr K spent a considerable period of time 
contacting Admiral regarding his claim and struggled to obtain responses. The evidence supports this view. The business also admits it was responsible for delays in handling the 
claim and deciding on the appropriate repair work. Mr K has been caused significant 
inconvenience and hassle as a result of these delays. He was also worried about the 
potential for further damage due to the ongoing leak.
Repair work cant commence until Mr K is provided with alternative accommodation. On the 
balance of the evidence I think the search area couldve been wider from the start and 
communication couldve been better. This has added to the frustration and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr K. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
- pay a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
- assist Mr K to find alternative accommodation; and
- allow Mr K to cancel his policy, should he wish, without applying administration
charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman