DRN-1874047
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined his claim on his gadget 
insurance policy.
What happened 
Mr R had a gadget insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes to cover his laptop. In 
September 2019 he was on a train home from work following a nightshift. His laptop was in 
his bag which he placed by his feet on the floor of the train. He fell asleep and missed his 
stop, when he woke up he rushed off the train at the next station. When Mr R returned 
home, he realised he hadnt got his bag. He made a claim for the laptop on the policy.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said as the bag had been left unattended, this meant it 
was excluded under the policy.
Mr R didnt think this was fair as he said he hadnt left the bag with the laptop in unattended, 
but had suffered a loss that should be covered under the policy. He made a complaint to 
Great Lakes.
Great Lakes didnt uphold his complaint. It said that as the bag was left on the train this 
would mean it was left unattended and therefore excluded under the theft section of the 
policy.
Mr R didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that Mr Rs complaint be 
upheld. She didnt consider the bag had been left unattended as it had been by his feet while 
he was on the train. Further she said she thought Mr R had suffered a loss rather than a 
theft, which should be covered under the policy.
Great Lakes didnt agree with this. It said that as it seems the bag was left on the train, this 
means it meets the definition of being left unattended. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Great Lakes has said that Mr Rs laptop is excluded from policy cover as it was left 
unattended. The part of the policy it has referred to is as follows:
B) Theft (this section only applies if shown on Your policy) 
We will replace Your Electronic Equipment with a Replacement Item if it is stolen. Where 
only part or parts of Your Electronic Equipment have been stolen, We will only replace that part or parts. In addition to claims excluded under the What is Not Covered section, We will 
not pay for Theft;
4. Where the Electronic Equipment has been left Unattended when it is away from Your 
home.
And unattended is defined in the policy as:
Unattended
Not visible to You and not within Your arms length reach. We will not pay any claims for 
property left Unattended in publicly accessible places. You must act as though You are not 
insured.
So I can see that leaving an insured item unattended is excluded under the cover for theft. 
However I have considered whether Great Lakes has applied this term fairly in the 
circumstances and I dont think it has. 
Mr R says he was in rush after waking up and realising that he missed his stop and didnt 
realise he no longer had his bag containing his laptop until he got home. This means he isnt 
sure at what point he no longer had his laptop. 
Great Lakes has said it is most likely the bag was left on the train when Mr R rushed off at 
the next station after realising he had missed his stop. And at this point the bag was left 
unattended as it was left on the train. As it was on this train that Mr R last remembers having 
the bag, I agree that this is the most likely point the bag was left. 
However I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to apply the unattended exclusion in this 
scenario. Leaving an item unattended suggests that this is for a short period, so the owner 
intends to return to the item. It is a risk taken by the owner, which is why cover wouldnt be 
provided. For example if Mr R was to have left the bag on his seat while he went to the toilet 
and it was stolen. I think in this scenario it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to apply the 
exclusion.
However in this instance, it is clear that it was not Mr Rs intention to leave the bag on the 
train. He was tired from a night shift and woke up confused having realised he missed his 
stop. It therefore seems probable that in his rush to get off the train, he accidentally left the 
bag. So I dont think it is fair to say he left it unattended. 
Nor do I think it is fair that this claim has been considered under the cover provided for theft. 
When Mr R made the claim, he reported that he no longer had the bag containing the laptop 
and not that it had been stolen. As Mr R has been unable to recover the bag, I agree it is 
likely that it has been subsequently stolen. However I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to 
deal with the claim as a theft. Further Great Lakes has referred to the incident throughout its 
responses as a loss/theft. So it recognises that it isnt clear that the bag has been stolen.
I think it more fairly meets the definition of a loss, described in the policy as:
Where the Electronic Equipment has been accidentally left by You in a location and You are 
permanently deprived of its use.
When Mr R reported the claim, I think what he reported accurately meets this definition. Further, if accidentally leaving a bag on a train is considered as leaving it unattended rather 
than meeting the definition of a loss as described above, I struggle to see any instance 
where a claim could be successful as a loss while in a public place. Losing something in a 
public place is likely to result in it being stolen. And therefore the definition of unattended 
could be applied to any loss in a public place. So I dont think this is a fair application of the 
policy in this circumstance.
For these reasons I dont think Great Lakes has acted fairly by declining Mr Rs claim. I 
therefore require it to accept Mr Rs claim under the policy cover for loss and settle the claim 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. I will also require Great Lakes to pay 8% simple 
interest on any successful claim to make up for the fact Mr R has been without any monetary 
settlement. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have given, I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to :
settle Mr Rs claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss until the date settlement 
is paid, on any valid claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman