DRN-3631571
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly allowed 
her to open a credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs F says the credit card account she opened in 2012 was unaffordable and was in 
financial difficulties at the time. She says the account credit limit was increased and would 
like interest as well as charges refunded.
This complaint was brought to us and our investigator upheld it and thought the account was 
unaffordable from the start. The investigator recommended interest and charges be refunded 
and the account reworked putting an affordable repayment plan in place. In summary the 
investigator also recommended Barclaycard pay interest on any balance outstanding after 
the refund and remove adverse information.
Barclaycard agreed with investigators view and says the default has already been removed 
from Mrs Fs credit file due to the passage of time. It says it has calculated the interest and 
will reduce the account balance by that amount or arrange a refund as well as pay interest if 
Mrs F has repaid it.
Mrs F doesnt accept that view and says the debt should be written off otherwise she would 
be back in same position she was previously in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator.
There is no need for me to repeat the investigators findings in respect of the unaffordable 
lending part of the complaint as all parties agree the original lending was unaffordable.
The only part of the investigators findings that Mrs F disagrees with, is about what was 
recommended Barclaycard do to put matters right. Mrs F would like the debt written off if 
there is still an outstanding balance.
I hope it will be helpful to Mrs F if I explain the approach we take to complaints of this type 
when, as here, they are upheld. We try as best as can be achieved to put a complainant 
back in the position they would have been in were it not for, as in this case, the unaffordable 
lending. That means that interest and charges should be refunded or deducted from any 
outstanding balance. We also take the view that a complainant has had the benefit of the 
lending or the money and so it would normally be unfair for example to order that a debt be 
simply written off.
Im satisfied that Mrs F has had the benefit of the credit card account for many years and 
was able to use the account for her spending. I find it would be unfair and disproportionate to 
order Barclaycard to write of the debt or refund it to Mrs F if she has now repaid it.
Putting things right
Barclaycard has agreed to refund the interest and charges which should be deducted from 
any outstanding account balance. If there is a positive balance owed to Mrs F, then it should 
pay 8% simple interest per year on any refund. There is no point ordering any default be 
removed from Mrs Fs credit file as that has taken place. If there is an outstanding balance 
owed by Mrs F, then Barclaycard should agree an affordable repayment plan without 
interest. If His Majestys Revenue and Customs requires any interest to be deducted from 
any refund, then Barclaycard should provide a certificate of such deductions and apply any 
deductions after any tax is deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard to carry out the order as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman