DRN-4473428
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a personal loan Fairscore Ltd (trading as Updraft) which he 
says was unfairly lent to him. He says he was lent to at a time when he was experiencing 
severe financial stress.
Background
Updraft provided Mr H with a loan for £3,500.00 in January 2022. This loan had an APR of 
20.86% and the total amount to be repaid of £4,635.21, which included interest fees and 
charges of £1,135.21, was due to be repaid in 35 monthly instalments of £127.66 followed 
by a final instalment of £167.11
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and Updraft had told us. She thought that 
Updraft hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly when it provided this loan and 
so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Updraft needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Updraft needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether Mr H could afford to make his repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Updraft says it approved Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out which showed Mr Hs existing commitments were relatively well 
maintained at the time  insofar as it showed no recent adverse data. 
In Updrafts view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr H could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr H has said he was already in 
difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Updraft have said. 
As Updraft asked Mr H about his income and expenditure and also carried out a credit 
check, its clear that Updraft did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided 
to proceed with Mr Hs application. 
Having looked at the credit check, its clear that Mr H had some existing debts. However, 
while I accept that Mr H might not agree with this, I dont think that these were excessive in 
comparison to his income. And importantly there wasnt anything obvious  such as 
significant adverse credit markers or over indebtedness  showing on this. 
Its also worth noting that he information from the time shows that Mr H said he was going to 
use the funds from this loan to reduce what he owed on his credit cards. I dont know 
whether Mr H did go on to do this. But Updraft could only make a reasonable decision based 
on the information it had available at the time. 
It wont have known whether Mr H would still have the same balances on his credit cards 
and this loan outstanding  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances 
from Mr H that the balances would be repaid with these funds. So Im satisfied that the 
proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to clear Mr Hs existing credit card 
balances. 
And as this was a first loan Updraft was providing to Mr H, there wasnt a history of Mr H 
obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he committed to 
either. So Updraft was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr H would be left in a better 
position after being provided with this loan.
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Updraft obtained. For example, Mr H says that he 
had missed payments on credit previously and was going through a difficult time. Im sorry to 
hear this. But Updraft wouldnt have known about these matters and it cant be expected to 
have known either. In these circumstances, it was entitled to rely on its credit search. And I 
wouldnt expect it to second guess a credit search carried out with a reasonable credit 
reference agency. 
Given the circumstances here, I think it would be reasonable to expect Updraft to have an 
idea of Mr Hs income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather 
than a complete review of Mr Hs finances. Furthermore, Mr H hasnt provided anything 
which clearly demonstrates further checks would have shown the loan payments were 
clearly unaffordable either  particularly if hed reduced his credit card balances in the way 
that hed committed to.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr H is suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think that Updraft did 
anything wrong when providing this loan to Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Updraft didnt treat Mr H 
unfairly or unreasonably when lending to him. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr H  as he clearly feels strongly about 
this matter. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint, I would remind Updraft of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mr H be experiencing 
difficulty and it choose to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman