DRN-1128964
The complaint
Mr N complains as the director of S, a limited company, that National Westminster Bank Plc 
wouldn't allow him to make a £10,000 cash withdrawal from S's account. 
What happened
S holds an account with NatWest. Its director, Mr N, visited a branch in July 2019 and 
asked to withdraw £10,000 in cash from the account. He said he needed the money to go on 
holiday later that day. NatWest only allowed him to withdraw £1,000. When he went back to 
branch the next day, he managed to withdraw a further £7,600 from the account.
Mr N complained to NatWest that he had to cancel his holiday because it turned down his 
initial request. As he'd been able to withdraw a large amount the following day, he thought 
NatWest should have agreed to the £10,000 withdrawal.
NatWest didn't uphold the complaint. It said that, in line with its internal procedure, Mr N had 
been asked for identification as well as proof of where the funds had come from and what 
they were for. As Mr N had reported that the money was for a holiday but wouldn't 
provide evidence of his travel booking/payment, it hadn't allowed the transaction to go 
ahead.
Unhappy with this response, Mr N asked us to review the complaint. Our investigator thought 
NatWest had acted reasonably. They said it had carried out additional checks due to the 
high value of the withdrawal  which appeared unusual, given the normal turnover on the 
account. As Mr N hadn't provided the requested information, they thought it was reasonable 
for NatWest to decline the transaction in order to protect S (and Mr N).
Mr N thought NatWest should have advised him to withdraw a slightly lower amount in order 
to avoid the checks, but our investigator thought that would have been inappropriate. Mr N 
appealed the outcome. He said the terms don't state that he can't withdraw £10,000 of his 
own money  regardless of the account turnover. He'd provided his driving licence as 
identification and explained that the money had been transferred from his wife's business 
account the previous day. So he thought the withdrawal should have been allowed. As 
requested, S's case has been escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached  and for largely the same reasons.
 
 
Although Mr N doesn't think the account terms allow NatWest to stop him from withdrawing 
his own money, the terms do explain that NatWest can delay or refuse instructions in certain 
circumstances. This includes when it thinks it's prudent to do so in the interest of crime prevention; when instructions are unclear or incomplete; or if it suspects an instruction 
is fraudulent. It has to be satisfied that the instruction is "legitimate".
In order to help establish this, NatWest carries out checks on high-value cash withdrawals 
such as the one Mr N attempted to make. In line with industry guidance and good practice, 
we do expect banks to complete checks on high-value transactions requested in branch. I 
don't consider it necessary (or appropriate) for NatWest to set out the exact nature of these 
checks in the account terms. But I'm satisfied that it completed the checks in line with its 
internal procedure  which is ultimately in place to protect the bank and its customers from 
fraud. 
Taking all of this into account, I've considered whether NatWest handled Mr N's request 
reasonably. The staff member who declined the £10,000 withdrawal carried out the expected 
checks  and decided to refuse the request when Mr N couldn't provide evidence of his 
holiday payment/booking. NatWest has explained there are some scams where customers 
are coached into giving certain answers when making large withdrawals in branch. It says it 
allowed him to withdraw £1,000 as that was the account balance before the £10,000 (which 
he's told us was paid by his wife) was credited the previous day. I'm satisfied this was 
reasonable. NatWest acted prudently to protect itself and its customer.
NatWest allowed Mr N to make a £7,600 withdraw from S's account the following day. He 
isn't complaining about this  but he thinks it suggests NatWest should have allowed his 
earlier withdrawal. But the checks completed will depend on different criteria. The later 
withdrawal doesn't affect my conclusion that the steps NatWest followed when considering 
the larger, £10,000 withdrawal were fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr N wants £1,000 compensation for his missed holiday. I'm satisfied NatWest acted fairly 
and reasonably, so I'm not making an award. But it may be helpful to explain that, even if I 
did uphold this complaint, I wouldn't be able to compensate Mr N personally. A limited 
company is a separate legal entity from the person or people who run it. This complaint is 
about a transaction on S's account. So S (the limited company) is the eligible complainant 
here, not Mr N (the director of the company). This means that, even if I upheld the complaint, 
I'd only be able to consider the impact on S. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman