DRN-4055782
The complaint
Mrs J, represented in this complaint by her daughter (Miss M), complains that Santander UK 
Plc closed her account.
What happened
Mrs J held an account with Santander. In 2021 she referred a complaint about that account 
to our service as it had been blocked for an extended period of time. We looked into Mrs Js 
concerns and an ombudsman issued a final decision on the complaint on 11 August 2022. 
They determined that Santander should take steps to ensure the account could be 
unblocked and pay Mrs J £150 compensation.
On 26 August 2022 Santander wrote to Mrs J to say it would be closing her account, it gave 
her two months notice  stating the account would close on 26 October 2022. Mrs J 
believes Santander has decided to close her account because she made a complaint, she 
does not think this is fair.
Santander has said that the terms and conditions allow it to close the account without giving 
a reason as long as it gives appropriate notice, so it doesnt think it has done anything 
wrong. Mrs J disagrees, so she referred her complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but they thought that Santander 
had been within its rights to close Mrs Js account. Mrs J remained unhappy, so her 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for the 
same reasons.
Santander was entitled to end its banking relationship with Mrs J if it chose to do so and 
gave appropriate notice. This is set out in the terms and conditions of her account which 
state:
17.2 You or we may close your account at any time by giving the other notice without giving 
any reasonIf we decide to do this well give you at least two months notice
Santander gave Mrs J two months notice of its intention to close her account, so has acted 
within the terms and conditions of the account. Mrs J says she thinks Santander has only 
closed her account because of the complaint she made, she considers that to be very unfair. 
Santander is not required to give its reasons for deciding to close an account, but in any 
case Ive seen nothing to suggest that its reason for closing the account was that Mrs J had 
complained. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs J but Im not persuaded that Santander has treated 
her unfairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman