DRN-3542380
The complaint
Mr V complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance 
(Swinton) cancelled his motor insurance without making reasonable efforts to contact him.
What happened
Mr V took out a new motor insurance policy through Swinton. When Swinton checked on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), it found reference to a previous non-fault claim. 
CUE is a database of insurance claims/incidents. Most insurers are signed up to CUE, and 
will record any incident theyre made aware of, whether it leads to a claim or not. Insurers 
can view the information on CUE when considering offering a policy to a consumer. 
Swinton wanted to speak with Mr V to find out more about the CUE entry, so it wrote to him 
asking him to call. He didnt call, so Swinton wrote to him again about three days later, 
saying if he didnt get in touch it would cancel his policy in about a weeks time. Mr V didnt 
call so about ten days later his policy was cancelled. Mr V says he was away and didnt get 
the letters until he got home and found that his policy had already been cancelled. Mr V says 
he had by then been without insurance for two days. He says the CUE entry was just him 
calling a previous insurer to ask about the cost of making a claim to repair a dent in his car. 
He says he didnt actually make a claim and had forgotten about the call.
Mr V complained to Swinton. He was unhappy that Swinton hadnt tried to contact him by 
other means. In response, Swinton said it had contacted Mr V by post and email asking him 
to get in touch about the information on CUE, and cancelled the policy because it hadnt 
heard from him. However, Swinton had actually only contacted Mr V by letter. Swinton also 
said Mr V hadnt told it he wouldnt be at home to receive correspondence, and he hadnt 
said he didnt want to receive correspondence by letter or email. 
Mr V wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He said before cancelling Mr Vs policy, Swinton should have used 
another method to try to contact him as well as writing. The investigator said Swinton should 
pay Mr V £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Swinton didnt agree with this suggestion, so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr V 
wants Swinton to review the way it contacts customers when proposing to cancel policies, 
remove the cancellation from his records, refund the £40 cancellation fee it charged him, and 
give him a written apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
On 16 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to look at individual consumer complaints, so I cant look at whether Swinton 
should review the way it contacts its customers. I can look at the other issues Mr V raises.
Swinton told our investigator that the issue was Mr Vs failure to fully disclose the correct risk 
during the application for insurance, which is accepted. Swinton said it doesnt use phone or 
text to contact customers, and in accordance with the cancellation terms in the policy would 
use post or email. Swinton said Mr Vs preferred method of communication was post and its 
business process is only to communicate by the customers preferred method.
However Mr V says that when he said his preferred method of contact was post, this was 
only in relation to insurance documents. He says Swinton has actually contacted him by 
email on several occasions and hes never said this wasnt acceptable. 
Ive listened to the call where Mr V bought his insurance. Swinton says this is where he 
asked for communication to be by post. The call handler checked Mr Vs landline number 
and email address and asked him for his mobile number.
Mr V asked:
Will you be sending me this through the post or through email ?
The call handler replied:
Whatever you prefer. Lets have a look. So with documents we can get them to you by post 
or if you want to help us be that little bit more environmentally friendly through to email and 
you can view them online. What is it youd prefer though ?
Mr V said:
When you send the renewal do you send that by post or bythat will be by post then ? The 
call handler replied:
Whatever you prefer (inaudible).
Mr V then said:
I think Id better have the renewal by post because sometimes I miss it on the email.
The call handler explained that Mr V would receive his policy documents in the post.
Mr V then received an email the next day confirming his insurance had been set up and 
saying that the documents were in the post as requested.
In the phone call Mr V only asked for the renewal documents to be sent by post. So I dont
think Swinton is correct in saying that Mr Vs preferred method for all communication was by 
post. Mr V received an email from Swinton about the new policy. So it seems that it isnt 
always Swintons business process to only communicate by a single preferred method. 
Swinton also replied to Mr Vs complaint by email, saying that the cancellation letter had 
been sent by post and email. This isnt correct, as the letter was only sent by post. However 
it does tend to suggest that Swinton may send such letters by post and email.
Mr Vs policy documents said: Cancelling your policyWe may cancel your policy by sending you, or Swinton Insurance 
sending you, 7 days notice to your last known address or email address if we have a good 
reason to cancel your policy. Some examples of situations where we might do this 
includeyou providing us with incorrect information, and failing to put this right when we ask 
you to.
So Swinton did act in accordance with the terms of the policy. However, I aIso need to 
consider whether Swinton acted fairly and reasonably. I think when Mr V didnt respond to 
Swintons letters, it would have been fair and reasonable for it to try and contact him by 
another method before cancelling his policy. Its a very serious step for an insurer to cancel a 
consumers insurance policy, potentially leaving them without any cover. Swinton had 
already contacted Mr V by email and could have done so again.
Swinton said Mr V hadnt told it he wouldnt be at home to receive correspondence. However 
I dont think its reasonable to expect a consumer to tell their insurer every time theyre not 
going to be at home in case any letters need to be sent. Mr V took his policy out over the 
phone, and he was asked to confirm his email address and landline and mobile numbers. He 
wasnt told that these wouldnt be used to contact him. 
Swinton told our investigator that it shouldnt have deducted the £40 from the refund of Mr 
Vs premiums as the policy was cancelled before the start date. Swinton has offered to 
refund this if Mr V contacts it. Swinton also said the cancellation was classed as customer 
led, and so it wouldnt be recorded on any external database.
However Mr V suffered stress and inconvenience by having his insurance cancelled, being 
left without cover, and having to rearrange new cover at very short notice. I think Swinton 
should compensate him for this. Swinton may also wish to apologise to Mr V.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
I intend to require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance to 
pay Mr V £100 in recognition of the stress and inconvenience caused to him by cancelling 
his insurance without making reasonable attempts to contact him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr V said he was very happy with the provisional decision and wouldnt be providing any 
further information. Swinton didnt respond. Having thought about the circumstances once 
again I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
I require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance to pay Mr V 
£100 in recognition of the stress and inconvenience caused to him by cancelling his 
insurance without making reasonable attempts to contact him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman