DRN-4241410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Independent Health Care Solutions Limited (IHCS) mis-sold 
them a private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr F is one of the founders of R Ltd and its CEO. At the time of 
the advice complained of, Mr and Mrs F had the benefit of membership of a group 
private medical insurance scheme via R Ltd, with an insurer Ill refer to as A. 
Mr and Mrs Fs monthly premium was £132.45 for their membership of the group private 
medical insurance scheme with A. That cover was on a continuing medical exclusions 
basis. That means that A agreed to continue Mr and Mrs Fs previous cover without the 
need for fresh underwriting, so pre-existing conditions were covered to the extent they 
were previously covered or disregarded altogether. The membership with A also  
included treatment at hospitals near Mr and Mrs Fs home. 
R Ltd wanted to close its group medical insurance scheme and in October 2021, Mr F 
contacted IHCS about a private medical insurance policy for him and Mrs F. IHCS 
obtained two quotes from B which it says were on the basis of retaining cover for existing 
medical conditions and for treatment in Bs extended hospital list. One was for £169.23 a 
month and the other was for £348.18. The latter quote took into account a medical issue 
for Mr F.   
IHCS says that Mr F was concerned about the cost, so it obtained a quote from A for a 
private medical insurance policy for Mr and Mrs F on a continuous cover basis. That 
quote was £352.93.      
IHCS says that B confirmed that Mr Fs medical issue didnt have to be disclosed so they 
could proceed with the quote of £169.23 per month. IHCS recommended that policy with 
B. The new policy began in December 2021.The policy certificate shows that the policy 
was underwritten, which meant that Mr and Mrs F answered questions about their 
health. There were no special conditions excluding pre-existing conditions. The policy 
covered treatment at Bs Extended Choice network. That doesnt include hospitals near 
Mr and Mrs Fs home. 
In March 2022, Mr F suffered sharp abdominal pains and wanted to make a claim 
against his policy with B. B told him that he didnt have cover for hospitals in the inner 
boroughs of the city in which he lived. It directed Mr F to a consultant based in a hospital 
in an outer borough of the city. Mr F raised the matter with IHCS.
Mr F sought private treatment in an NHS hospital in an inner borough. B agreed to cover 
the cost of a CT scan in another hospital, but Mr Fs symptoms got worse, and he went 
to A&E. His problem was resolved with over the counter medication. Mr F pursued the 
complaint about the suitability of the policy. 
IHCS made enquiries of A to see whether Mr and Mrs F could take out a private medical 
insurance policy on a continuing medical exclusions basis. The quote was £398.48, not 
£352.93 as previously quoted at the time of renewal, as Mr F had made a recent claim.  
Mr and Mrs F say that they wanted to move from membership of the group scheme to a 
private medical insurance policy with the same benefits and terms. They say that IHCS 
didnt undertake an assessment of their needs or explain policy terms. Mr and Mrs F say  
that IHCS recommended a policy that was substantially narrower than their previous 
cover. They say that they live on the same street as two hospitals which arent included 
in their cover with B. Mr and Mrs F say that IHCS sent Mr F a statement of needs after 
the new policy with B had started and after their membership with A had been cancelled.  
Mr and Mrs F initially wanted the cover they were led to believe they had  that is,      
like-for-like cover - at the premium they were paying for the policy with B. They also want 
compensation for the months they have had an unsuitable policy and for Mr Fs travel 
and inconvenience in visiting hospitals at some distance from his home and his time in 
dealing with the matter. 
In response to the complaint, IHCS says that it provided Mr F with a quote from A for 
continuous cover, but Mr F said that was considerably more expensive than their 
renewal quote for their membership of the group scheme with A. It said that it provided 
Mr F with two quotes from B and Mr F agreed to proceed with one of them. IHCS said 
that Mr and Mrs Fs cover with A under the group scheme was its national hospital list 
and that the comparable cover with B is its extended hospital list. It said that it wasnt 
aware that Mr and Mrs F required cover for a specific hospital near where they live. It 
said that if it had been aware of that, it would have recommended Bs policy with 
Extended Hospitals including Central [City]. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that IHCS 
recommendation met Mr Fs stated requirements and that it gave him sufficient 
information to enable him to make an informed choice. The investigator didnt think that 
IHCS had made a mistake or treated Mr F unfairly. She said that there was no evidence 
that Mr F had asked for a policy which included hospitals in a particular location, so 
IHCS wasnt aware that was a requirement. The investigator said that IHCS wasnt 
required to recommend adding hospitals close to Mr Fs home address. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. Mr F responded at some length, which I 
wont set out here in full. In summary, Mr F said:
Both IHCS and B accept that theres a fault here. The question is whether the 
fault lies with IHCS or B.
The investigator hadnt considered all of the documents he had provided.
The investigator said that IHCS doesnt have recordings of relevant phone calls 
and he has provided contemporaneous notes of his phone calls with IHCS.
IHCS didnt assess their needs.
IHCS recommendation doesnt include any hospitals within 50 miles of where 
they live, so it didnt provide the same cover as their previous membership of a 
group scheme. Documentation provided by IHCS didnt include a reference to key differences 
between its recommendation and their previous cover.
Their intention was to purchase a private medical insurance policy that had the 
same cover as they had previously. 
IHCS didnt establish their demands and needs and didnt draw to their attention 
that its recommendation didnt include access to local hospitals. IHCS referred to 
coverage as National, which they reasonably assumed included where they live. 
Mr F asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
We asked Mr and Mrs F what they did at renewal in December 2022. Mr and Mrs F say 
that before renewal in December 2022, they explored like-for-like costs of the cover they 
had as members of the group scheme with A. They say that B quoted a monthly 
premium of £1,069.42 (£12,833 annually). Mr and Mrs F didnt pursue that as the cost 
was prohibitive. At renewal in December 2022, Mr and Mrs F took out a new policy with 
B at a monthly premium of £188.98 (£2,267.76 annually). The policy covered hospitals 
near where they live, and the certificate shows that it was underwritten.   
Mr and Mrs F say that they have lost the value of the difference between the cost of the 
policy they took out at renewal in 2022 and the cost of the policy with B that would 
provide like-for-like cover they had as member of the group scheme with A. They say 
that amounts to £10,565 per year for five years. Mr and Mrs F also want compensation 
for the lack of cover in the policy year 2021-2022 and for the broader consequences of 
the mis-sale. Mr and Mrs F say that as a direct consequence of the mis-sale, they cant 
afford the same level of cover that was previously in their reach.  
My provisional decision
On 28 June 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I indicated 
that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
IHCS gave Mr and Mrs F advice about the policy. This means that, in line with the 
relevant rules and industry guidelines, it had a responsibility to ensure that the policy 
was right for them and to provide them with information that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading. 
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs Fs previous cover under the group scheme with 
A included cover for treatment at hospitals near where they live and that the policy 
recommended by IHCS didnt include nearby hospitals. Both the group cover with A 
and the policy with B IHCS recommended covered Mr and Mrs Fs pre-existing 
conditions. 
IHCS says that it didnt provide Mr and Mrs F with a quote for a policy which included 
hospitals near where they live as it was aware that the monthly premium would be 
more than a quote Mr F had already rejected. So, essentially, IHCS says that price 
and affordability were more important to Mr and Mrs F than the extent of their cover. 
But Mr F says that he wanted the same benefits and terms that they had as members 
of the group scheme. In a case like this, where theres a conflict of evidence, I look to see what I think is 
most likely to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
IHCS didnt complete a fact find which might show Mr and Mrs Fs demands and 
needs at the relevant time. IHCS says that it discussed the matter with Mr F over the 
phone and confirmed matters by e-mail. IHCS says that it doesnt record phone calls, 
so it doesnt have a recording of what was said. Mr F has provided contemporaneous 
phone notes of his conversations with IHCS.
Ive considered this matter carefully. On balance, I find that its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs F required a policy with the same cover as they had as members of 
the group scheme with A, so which included treatment in hospitals near where they 
live. Mr Fs contemporaneous notes refer to Like-for-like plan change. I think that 
indicates that Mr and Mrs F wanted the same cover as they already had. Im not 
persuaded by IHCS contention that at the time of the advice complained of               
Mr and Mrs Fs priority was price and affordability over the extent of their cover.  
The statement of demands and needs dated 13 December 2021 included a section  
called 4. Significant Differences between your existing Product and Our 
Recommendation: Leaving aside the fact that this document is dated and was sent 
to Mr and Mrs F after the new policy started, Id expect to see in this section 
information to show that IHCS recommendation didnt include treatment in hospitals 
near where they live. Ive seen nothing to indicate that IHCS explained that to          
Mr and Mrs F at the relevant time, that is, before they took out the policy. 
The statement of demands and needs also contains the following:
2. Your objectives (Demands & Needs)
[]
Hospitals Required: National.
I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs F required national hospital cover, 
which includes hospitals near where they live. 
I think it would be unusual for individuals to seek private medical insurance cover 
which only included treatment in hospitals some distance from their home, especially 
when, as here, they live within walking distance of hospitals they had used previously 
under private cover. The more unusual a situation the more evidence is required to 
substantiate it. Id expect to see contemporaneous notes and records from IHCS 
showing that price and affordability were more important than the hospital cover. I 
havent seen that in this case. 
IHCS says that Mr and Mrs Fs previous cover under the group scheme with A was 
based on a National Hospital List and that the comparable list with B is the 
Extended Hospital List, which is what it recommended. I dont agree. IHCS 
recommendation didnt include hospitals near where Mr and Mrs F live, whereas their 
previous cover with A did. 
On 30 November 2021, IHCS provided Mr and Mrs F with a quote for continuous 
cover with A. But it didnt explain that would mean that it covered treatment in 
hospitals near their home. So, the quote looked more expensive than options with B, 
which actually provided narrower cover. IHCS is the expert here and wed expect it to 
draw out differences between the cover so that Mr and Mrs F could make an 
informed choice. Considering everything, I dont think that IHCS recommendation was suitable for    
Mr and Mrs F as it didnt provide them with like-for-like cover. 
IHCS is right to say that the information provided to Mr and Mrs F by B on taking out 
the policy showed the extent of their hospital cover and indicated how they could 
discover whether a particular hospital was in their cover. But I dont think that 
changes the outcome here as the provision of information doesnt make an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable. 
 
Mr and Mrs F want like-for-like cover at the premium for the more restricted cover 
with B which was recommended by IHCS. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct IHCS to put things right in that way. Thats because the cover  
Mr and Mrs F wanted was never available at the premium they paid for the policy 
recommended by IHCS. A private medical insurance policy is likely to cost more than 
membership of a group scheme. Thats because a group scheme usually has a 
number of members and risk is shared. 
Mr and Mrs F say that they have lost the value of the difference between the cost of 
the policy they took out at renewal in 2022 and the current cost of the policy with B 
that would provide like-for-like cover. They say that amounts to £10,565 per year for 
five years. I dont agree thats an accurate analysis of their loss. Ill explain why. 
In April 2022, during the course of the complaint, IHCS obtained a quote from A for 
continuous cover for Mr and Mrs F. Mr and Mrs F didnt pursue that, but it would have 
given them the cover they say they wanted, albeit at a slightly higher premium than at 
the time of renewal in December 2021. I think that IHCS responsibility for any 
increased premium for like-for-like cover ended when it offered to pursue an 
application with A for like-for-like cover. Mr and Mrs F didnt take that up. I dont think 
that IHCS is responsible for continuing loss in the way Mr and Mrs F suggest.  
In cases like this, we look at the effect of the error on the individuals. Mr F was put to 
the trouble of dealing with what should have been a fairly straight forward claim in a 
rather protracted and worrying way. Thankfully, Mr Fs medical issues were resolved, 
and B met his claim for a consultation near his home. But Mr and Mrs F were no 
doubt worried about the usefulness of their cover and concerned about what would 
happen if they needed to make a further claim. They were also put to the trouble of 
engaging further with IHCS to try and sort this matter out.
In all the circumstances, I think that compensation of £500 is fair and reasonable in 
this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and 
duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by IHCS error in this case. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F responded for Mr and Mrs F and said that he largely agreed with my provisional 
findings but commented in relation to three areas, a brief summary of which is as follows:
IHCS and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
IHCS didnt act in accordance with its regulatory obligations and further regulatory 
sanctions may be applicable.
Their motivation for switching plans The advice in late 2021 was part of a plan which began in 2020 to move from a group 
private medical insurance scheme with B, first to a group private medical scheme  
with A and then to individual private medical insurance policies. 
IHCS told R Ltd that cost would be substantially reduced by moving away from a 
group private medical scheme. That may be further mis-advice from IHCS. 
There was no pressing need to close the group private medical insurance scheme 
and neither R Ltd nor Mr and Mrs F were under financial duress. 
There was no motivation to reduce cover: simply a desire to ensure that the annual 
costs didnt increase disproportionally over time as part of sensible financial planning. 
Price and affordability were not more important to them than the extent of their cover. 
Analysis of loss
IHCS advised that private medical insurance would be more cost-effective over time 
than group private medical insurance and that was the only basis for closing the 
group private medical insurance scheme.
They previously had a group medical insurance plan which cost £150. If the mis-sold 
policy cost £169, redress cant be to offer another plan which is substantially more 
expensive. That is making the consumer pay for the brokers mistake. 
IHCS promised like-for-like cover at £169, so they shouldnt have to pay more than 
that. 
They relied on IHCS advice: it shouldnt be permitted to sell a financial product at a 
price that doesnt exist then walk away from the consequences. 
IHCS accepted a fault had occurred and promised to put things right but didnt do so. 
R Ltd wouldnt have entertained closing its group private medical insurance scheme if 
costs were significantly increased: the sole rationale for doing so was                    
cost-effectiveness. 
IHCS didnt offer an alternative policy. It provided a quote for an additional policy, 
which would have meant they paid two premiums simultaneously at a total cost of 
£579.84.
IHCS didnt think that the alternative policy alone was an appropriate solution: it said 
that it was working to resolve the problem with B.
Regaining like-for-like cover would cost approximately £10,500 a year more than the 
current policy they have and over 40 years that loss would be approximately 
£423,000, which is more than this services financial award limit. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500 equates to merely 17 days of 
like-for-like cover. 
They suggest that IHCS pay compensation of the award limit or arranges cover for, 
say, 25 years and pay compensation for stress, distress, uncertainty, and 
inconvenience.IHCS responded to say, in summary:
It wasnt sure why theres been a change from the investigators decision not to 
uphold the complaint as the only new information is that Mr and Mrs F have renewed 
the policy with BUPA for £188.98 a month. 
If Mr and Mrs Fs policy is fully medically underwritten there will be significant 
exclusions in relation to pre-existing conditions. 
The extended hospital list offered by B includes a large number of hospitals within 30 
miles of Mr and Mrs Fs home but not necessarily within walking distance or the ones 
that they would choose to use. 
The national hospital list offered by A is its only hospital list. It provided the quote 
from B based on As national list. When Mr F sought treatment in March 2022 he was 
offered a hospital less than five miles from his home. Due to a technical problem he 
had to go to a hospital approximately six miles away from his home for further 
treatment. Those hospitals were within close proximity to his home. As Mr and Mrs F 
hadnt said they wanted two specific hospitals included in their cover, they couldnt 
have foreseen the problem. 
It provided a continuation option quotation from A before the policy with B had been 
processed but Mr F wasnt interested in that as the premium was £352.93.
It did the best for Mr and Mrs F, in accordance with their requirements as it 
understood them.
Mr F has provided misleading information as his new policy appears to be on 
different underwriting terms than the policy it recommended and the policy it 
recommended did include central hospitals, just not the hospitals he preferred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been substantial comment by both Mr and Mrs F and IHCS. In this decision, Im 
dealing with the advice IHCS gave to Mr and Mrs F in late 2021, as thats the complaint     
Mr and Mrs F made to IHCS. Im not dealing with earlier advice given to R Ltd, as R Ltd 
hasnt complained about that to IHCS. 
The central question for me to decide is whether the advice IHCS gave to Mr and Mrs F in 
late 2021 was suitable and, if it wasnt, what IHCS should do to put matters right. Im going 
to focus on that but first Ill make two general points. 
Mr and Mrs F have asked whether regulatory sanctions are appropriate here. This service 
doesnt regulate or punish a business for its conduct. Thats the role of the industry regulator, 
the FCA. This service looks to resolve individual complaints between consumers and a 
business. So, its not for me to consider regulatory sanctions against IHCS.
IHCS says it doesnt understand why the investigator has changed her decision not to 
uphold the complaint. I think theres confusion about our process. This service operates a 
two-stage complaint process. That means that a complaint is first investigated by one of our investigators. If either party to the dispute disagrees with the investigators view, a complaint 
may be referred for an ombudsmans decision. Thats what happened here - Mr and Mrs F 
disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. Where that happens, the complaint is looked at afresh. An ombudsman isnt 
bound by the findings of the investigator. A provisional decision gives both parties the 
opportunity to comment further before a final decision. My provisional decision set out the 
reasons why I reached the conclusions I had. I appreciate that my provisional decision was 
disappointing for IHCS. 
I remain of the view that IHCS recommendation to Mr and Mrs F in late 2021 wasnt 
suitable. Thats because, on balance, I find that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F 
required a policy with the same cover as they had as members of the group scheme with A, 
so which included treatment in hospitals near where they live. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Fs priority was price and 
affordability. Ive noted what IHCS says about the hospital lists of A and B. It remains the 
case that its recommendation to Mr and Mrs F had a narrower hospital list than their 
previous cover. I dont think that was suitable. And they didnt draw Mr and Mrs Fs attention 
to it. 
The remaining issue is what IHCS should do to put matters right. Ive noted what Mr F says 
about financial loss. In the circumstances that arose here, IHCS isnt responsible for the 
difference in the cost of the policy it recommended and the cost of a suitable policy. The 
cover Mr and Mrs F wanted was never available at the premium they paid for the policy 
recommended by IHCS. And during the course of the complaint, IHCS obtained a quote from 
A for continuous cover, but Mr and Mrs F didnt pursue that. Mr and Mrs F refer to IHCS 
providing a quote for a policy which would have meant they had two policies simultaneously 
at a total cost of £579.84. But there was no obligation to have two policies simultaneously.  
Theres no basis on which I can fairly direct IHCS to either pay Mr and Mrs F compensation 
equal to this services award limit or to arrange a private medical insurance policy for them 
for the next 25 years. I think a complaint for redress along those lines is misplaced and I 
dont think that it would fairly reflect the impact of IHCS error in the particular circumstances 
of this case. 
IHCS recommended an unsuitable policy for Mr and Mrs F. I dont think that IHCS caused   
Mr and Mrs F financial loss. It was open to Mr and Mrs F to take up the quote from A which 
IHCS obtained during the course of the complaint. But I think that IHCS recommendation 
caused distress and inconvenience. When Mr F made a claim he discovered that the policy 
recommended by IHCS didnt include a hospital list that was suitable for him and Mrs F. I 
think fair compensation for that is £500. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, IHCS should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation of £500 in relation 
to their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint. 
Independent Health Care Solutions Limited should now take the step Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman