DRN-1419322
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has offered 
inadequate compensation following various problems after their credit card was used 
fraudulently. They would like additional compensation for their trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs P had a credit card account with Nationwide. Unfortunately, there was some 
fraudulent use of the card in 2019 which has been corrected by Nationwide. There was 
some dispute over which transactions were fraudulent and what payments, including 
interest, were due from Mr G and Mrs P on transactions they were responsible for. Mr G and 
Mrs P didnt make some payments which Nationwide said were due and it applied late 
payment charges. 
Nationwide sent several letters chasing payment and Mr G and Mrs P made several phone 
calls and sent letters in response. They complained about how long it was taking to sort the 
issue out and the charges Nationwide had added. They were also concerned about the 
possible impact on their credit file. They said they wanted the account closed and a new 
credit card issued. They said Nationwide should pay £575 in compensation for their time and 
the inconvenience.
Nationwide investigated but said it couldnt provide a final response within the 15-day 
timeframe. It incorrectly said Mr G and Mrs P couldnt refer their complaint to our service 
until it had issued its final response, when in fact they could. Mr G and Mrs P decided to 
contact our service and our investigator began looking into their complaint. At the same time 
Mr G and Mrs P continued to discuss matters with Nationwide, who agreed to waive some of 
the late payment charges. 
Nationwide issued its final response letter apologising for the error regarding referral to our 
service. But it said the amount it was now asking for (£67.11) was correct and if this was 
paid it would amend Mr G & Mrs Ps credit file, so it wasnt negatively affected. It said if the 
account was closed as requested, they would need to apply for a new credit card.
Nationwide agreed it hadnt offered the standard of service Mr G and Mrs P deserved but 
said £575 in compensation wasnt reasonable. Instead it offered £150, which it credited to 
their account. Mr G and Mrs P werent happy about the £67.11, as they didnt think it was 
correct but decided to pay it whilst our investigator considered the matter.
Our investigator asked Nationwide how it had come to its figures and various information 
was provided. He said this confirmed the outstanding balance requested. This assumed that 
all fraudulent transactions had been identified and he said if they hadnt, Nationwide was 
happy to investigate further. He said Nationwide had confirmed Mr G and Mrs Ps credit file 
hadnt been affected but that they should check.
Our investigator said Mr G and Mrs P had been inconvenienced but that the £150 already 
paid by Nationwide was fair and reasonable compensation for this, so he wouldnt ask it to 
do any more. 
In reply Mr G and Mrs P raised several queries. This included whether a particular 
transaction might be fraudulent and about their credit report. Our investigator raised the 
transaction with Nationwide, which provided evidence that it was legitimate. He advised Mr 
G and Mrs P about this. He said they would need to get a copy of their credit report as 
Nationwide couldnt provide this. Mr G and Mrs P confirmed they now accepted the 
transaction in question was theirs. But said the account had now been closed without them 
being told. This had caused them embarrassment when trying to use the card. They said this 
was despite the account being in credit having received a refund from a merchant.
Nationwide said the account was to be closed at Mr G and Mrs Ps request and the credit 
limit had been reduced to zero pending this due to the missed payments. The credit balance 
would be paid over to them. 
Subsequently Mr G and Mrs P confirmed that the credit amount had been paid to them and 
the account fully closed. They confirmed their credit report was unaffected, but they still 
didnt agree that £150 was adequate compensation for the inconvenience suffered. As Mr G 
and Mrs P dont agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr G and Mrs P, but I dont think Nationwide has acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in dealing with them. Ill explain why.
Fraudulent use of a credit card is always going to cause some inconvenience to both the 
customer and their bank. But I havent seen any evidence that Nationwide was at fault for 
the fraud or that it was seeking payments from Mr G and Mrs P that werent due. I dont think 
Nationwide was unreasonable in wanting to reconcile transactions and Mr G and Mrs P 
remain responsible for their own use of the card. 
I understand that receiving collection letters about the missed payments would have been 
distressing for Mr G and Mrs P, but it does appear these sums were being correctly 
requested. They now agree the reconciliation of transactions and have confirmed there has 
been no impact on their credit file. And all other issues apart from the level of compensation 
paid appear to have been resolved. So, I think Nationwide has acted reasonably here.
Nationwide has apologised for any poor service and has already paid £150 in compensation 
for this. I think is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances here and I wont be 
asking it to do any more than it already has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman