DRN-4532472
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain because Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) hasnt 
paid a claim under a flexible protection plan and has cancelled Mrs Ks insurance policies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a flexible protection plan, consisting of life and critical illness 
insurance policies, through an independent broker in 2018. The policies were underwritten 
by LV. 
In early 2022, Mrs K tried to make a critical illness claim with LV. LV initially said the claim 
wasnt covered because Mrs K hadnt been diagnosed with a critical illness as defined by the 
policy. After carrying out further investigations, LV said Mrs K hadnt told it when taking out 
the plan that shed been diagnosed with epilepsy in March 2018 and, if she had, it wouldnt 
have offered her any insurance cover. LV cancelled the plan, refunded Mrs K for the 
premiums shed paid and arranged for a new plan to be set up for Mr K. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K brought a complaint about LV to the attention of our service and one 
of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think LV had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mrs Ks claim and cancelling her policies. However, our 
investigator recommended that LV should pay Mr and Mrs K £500 compensation because 
she wasnt satisfied that LV had sent them a copy of the completed insurance application 
summary so they could check what answers had been recorded in response to the medical 
questions asked. 
Mr and Mrs K accepted our investigators recommendations but LV didnt, so the complaint 
has been referred to me as the final stage in our process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have also brought a complaint to our service about what they say was the 
brokers failure to pass relevant medical information to LV when selling the flexible protection 
plan. Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about the broker is being considered separately by our 
service, under a different complaint reference number. When making my final decision about 
this complaint, Im only considering the regulated activities which LV, as the underwriter of 
Mr and Mrs Ks plan, is responsible for. 
When considering LVs actions in this case, Ive taken into account the relevant law (The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)). Ive also had 
regard to good industry practice about managing claims for misrepresentation and treating 
customers fairly (namely, the April 2013 Code of Practice set out by the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI)), as well as what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a consumer (or a broker acting on a consumers behalf) fails to do this, the 
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  
a qualifying misrepresentation. For a misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer 
must show it would have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
LV thinks Mrs K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. This is 
because Mrs Ks medical records show she was diagnosed with epilepsy in March 2018, but 
the answer given to the following question on the insurance policy application form submitted 
to LV in June 2018 was no;
In the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve seen a doctor, required treatment or 
had time off work, have you had: 

Multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, Parkinsons disease or any other neurological condition?
Our service has issued a final decision in which I said I found it likely that Mr and Mrs K told 
the broker about Mrs Ks epilepsy diagnosis and the broker failed to pass this information on 
to LV. So, I accept that the error in the answer given to the above question wasnt Mr and 
Mrs Ks. But the broker acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs K, and not LV, is accountable for the 
misrepresentation. So, LV is entitled to apply the remedies available to it under CIDRA 
based on the answers that were presented to it  regardless of whether any mistake was Mr 
and Mrs Ks or the brokers. 
Im satisfied with the evidence which LV has provided to our service showing, if it had been 
told about Mrs Ks epilepsy and the results of an MRI scan in April 2018, it wouldnt have 
offered Mrs K the flexible protection plan. 
This means that a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA was made to LV. LV has 
treated the misrepresentation as careless and, as such, CIDRA allows LV to avoid the 
contract and refuse all claims subject to the return of the premiums paid for the insurance. 
This is what LV has done and I dont think LV has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be directing LV to pay Mrs Ks claim and/or to reinstate her 
policies.  
However, based on all the information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that LV didnt 
send Mr and Mrs K a copy of the insurance application summary that was completed in June 
2018. Mr and Mrs K have, I think, been consistent and plausible in their testimony about not 
receiving a copy of this application summary with correspondence received that month. I 
understand LV say their process is for an application summary to be sent to policyholders 
but LV hasnt been able to provide any evidence that Mr and Mrs K were given an 
opportunity to check the answers provided in the June 2018 insurance application as I think 
they should have been and, according to LVs internal notes and an email between LV and 
the broker, theres no record of this application summary being sent to Mr and Mrs K. I dont 
think the fact that Mr and Mrs K received a copy of a previously completed application 
summary is relevant to my decision, as the contents of that previous application summary 
arent in dispute. And I dont think the onus was on Mr and Mrs K to query with LV why they hadnt received an updated insurance application summary. Instead, I think the responsibility 
was on LV to make sure they were provided with this. 
Therefore, Im satisfied its likely that Mr and Mrs K were unable to check the answers given 
to LV in response to the medical questions asked in June 2018. If Mr and Mrs K had been 
provided with a copy of this completed insurance application summary by LV, I think they 
would have been in a position to realise at a much earlier point that thered been a mistake. 
Instead, Mr and Mrs K didnt discover an unexpected shortfall in their level of financial 
protection until a number of years later, at what was already a very difficult and stressful time 
due to Mrs Ks illnesses. 
Overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for LV to pay Mr and Mrs 
K £500 compensation for the considerable distress and inconvenience they experienced as 
a result. 
Putting things right
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs 
K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited 
and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman