DRN-3203451
The complaint
Mr L complains that GSI Wealth Management Limited (GSI) have taken fees from him 
without providing any kind of ongoing service for his pension plan in return.
Mr Ls pension plan is held with another business. Ill refer to them as company A in my 
decision.
What happened
GSI contacted Mr L in 2007 to offer him financial advice. They carried out a financial review 
the same year. And advised Mr L to transfer his pension plan into company A. GSI also 
agreed to be Mr Ls ongoing advisers. 
But in 2010, Mr L was approached by a financial adviser friend. He decided to change his 
adviser to his friends firm with effect from 19 April 2010. He stayed with that firm for a while. 
But at some point during 2011 he felt that his new adviser no longer had his best interests at 
heart. So he went back to GSI with effect from 15 August 2011. 
On 24 August 2011, company A contacted GSI. They wanted to review the advice Mr L had 
been given about his pension plan.  GSI spoke to Mr L on 24 August 2011. They discussed 
his attitude to risk and his unhappiness about the recent performance of his fund. On 26 
August 2011 GSI said they received a letter from Mr Ls 2010-2011 advisers requesting 
information. They replied to this later that month.
In October 2011, GSI received Mr Ls confirmation that he agreed to fund switches theyd 
recommended.
In April 2012, Mr L complained to GSI about the advice hed received in 2007. He was 
unhappy with the suitability of that advice. And felt that he mightve been financially 
disadvantaged by the recommendation to transfer. GSI sent their final response to his 
complaint in July 2012. They didnt uphold the complaint. The response said that a new 
adviser would be asked to contact Mr L to determine his ongoing needs.
The next relevant correspondence noted is a letter from company A to GSI at the end of 
2013 telling them about fund changes that would affect Mr L. There was no meaningful 
contact between GSI and Mr L until January 2019, when GSI were removed as Mr Ls 
financial adviser. And Mr L complained to GSI around the same time. After a series of letters 
between Mr L and GSI where Mr Ls questions were answered and more questions were 
raised, GSI issued their final response letter on 4 December 2019. 
GSI didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said that hed asked them to provide proof of the 
services theyd provided him with. These were:
-Annual reviews
-Fund switch recommendations
-Evidence of contact attempts
Mr L had also asked for a breakdown of the advice charges paid since 2007. And hed asked 
GSI to remove any advice fees/commission that they were taking from his account.
GSI explained how they offered annual reviews. They said that theyd been unable to 
provide a telephone chaser as they didnt hold an up-to-date number for Mr L. They also 
explained how they made fund switch recommendations. They said that Mr L had responded 
to one such fund switch recommendation on 19 October 2011. 
GSI also said that Mr L could arrange a review meeting at any time. And said that it wasnt a 
requirement for them to contact him to arrange such meetings, although they did try to. They 
said that Mr Ls first attempt to contact them in many years was in January 2019. 
Mr L was unhappy with GSIs response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He 
wanted the fees hed paid to be refunded. 
Our investigator felt that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He felt that it was reasonable for 
Mr L to expect to receive the service hed paid for. He felt that from 2012 to 2019 he hadnt 
received that service from GSI. He felt that GSI should refund the charges theyd taken, from 
the date of the 2012 final response letter to December 2019. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that his pension plan should be put back to the 
position it wouldve been in if the fees hadnt been taken. Our investigator agreed with Mr L. 
He said that when this service decides complaints, we try to put the customer back to the 
position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. So he felt that Mr L wouldve 
benefitted from the investment growth on the extra units he wouldve held if the charges 
hadnt been taken. So he said that the redress he felt GSI should pay would have to take this 
into account. He felt that the information theyd need to calculate the redress would be 
available from company A. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ls complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 November 2021. It said:
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I disagree with our investigator slightly. I consider 
that the period of time over which the charges should be refunded should end in January 
2019, when Mr L removed GSI as his financial adviser from his pension plan, not December 
2019 as stated by our investigator. I agree with our investigators follow up to GSI where he 
said that in order to put things right, Mr Ls pension fund should be put back to the position it 
wouldve been in had the charges not been taken. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
From what Ive seen, Mr L moved to a friends firm for advice during 2010. But he soon 
became unhappy with the service there, so returned to GSI during 2011. I consider it 
reasonable to assume that Mr L mustve been happy with the service GSI had provided 
between 2007 and 2010 at this point, or he wouldnt have returned. And, from what Ive 
seen, Mr L had been receiving a significant ongoing advice service over this period. 
GSI have provided the information they hold for Mr L. But unfortunately that doesnt include 
a service agreement. But Mr Ls 2007 client agreement with GSI describes the way he could 
pay for their services. It doesnt explicitly detail the services that would be provided.
GSI said that Mr Ls client agreement doesnt set out that he would be given an annual 
review. They also said that hed not been financially disadvantaged as the asset allocation had been maintained.
Although the client agreement doesnt describe the ongoing service Mr L agreed to receive 
from GSI, I consider it reasonable to assume that an ongoing advice service would be 
provided for the fees paid. This view is strengthened by the amount of work GSI actually 
carried out for those fees between 2007 and 2010. I agree with our investigator that Mr L 
received a reasonable ongoing service for the fees he was paying during this period. 
From what Ive seen, Mr L chose in 2010 to move to a friends firm for advice. He didnt 
personally inform GSI that he no longer required their services. Mr L returned to GSI in 2011 
when hed become unhappy with his new advisers. Mr L didnt pay fees to GSI while he was 
with the other advisers. But the payments to GSI restarted on the 2007 basis when he 
returned to them in 2011. GSI said these were on-going adviser charges for managing the 
plan. Ive no record of a new client agreement being offered to Mr L at this point. 
GSI said that Mr L had caused much of the confusion over who was providing him with 
advice: by re appointing GSI and then immediately appointing another IFA. They said that 
at the time of his 2012 complaint to them, the client was very unclear about whom he 
wanted to look after his pension so GSIs position at the time is one of confusion. They said 
they werent clear why Mr L had employed the adviser firm hed left to perform investigative 
work on them. So they say they didnt know what he wanted or expected of them.  
But GSI did contact Mr L to discuss his attitude to risk and his unhappiness about the recent 
performance of his fund in August 2011. And they made fund switch recommendations 
which he acted on in October 2011. So they mustve felt that they were providing ongoing 
advice to Mr L at this point. 
Mr L raised a complaint with GSI in April 2012 about the advice theyd given him in 2007. 
GSI issued their final response to that complaint in early July 2012. They didnt uphold it. 
That response stated that one of their advisers would be contacting Mr L to work out his 
ongoing needs. But theres no evidence that a new adviser did successfully contact Mr L.
GSI said that a new adviser was allocated to Mr L, but they couldnt confirm the advisers 
name. They also said that a previous adviser of Mr Ls continued to try to contact him. GSI 
said that theyd since discovered that they had an incorrect email address on their system. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr L wasnt contacted by a GSI adviser after July 2012. 
And Ive very little evidence of GSI providing any sort of ongoing service to him after their 
2012 final response letter. I acknowledge that this may be due in part to the incorrect email 
address held on GSIs systems. But Im persuaded that Mr L didnt receive the service he 
couldve reasonably felt he was paying for from the point the final response letter was issued 
in July 2012 until he removed GSI as his advisers at the end of January 2019. 
As Mr L was paying fees on the same basis that hed initially agreed to, Im satisfied that he 
should reasonably have expected to receive the same service. But GSI didnt provide him 
with any kind of service from 2012 until 2017. And although theres evidence of some 
contact in 2017, this only involved bulk emails being sent from the product provider. And 
theres no evidence of further contact until Mr Ls complaint to GSI in January 2019 about 
the lack of service. So I consider that it wasnt fair or reasonable for GSI to continue to take 
payment from Mr L for services that werent being provided between the start of July 2012 
and the end of January 2019. 
Where a business has made an error or omission my aim would generally be to put the 
consumer as close to the position they would otherwise have been in. I dont think Mr L 
received the level of service he couldve expected from GSI from the start of July 2012 to the end of January 2019, when he removed them as his advisers. In the circumstances, I have 
set out below what I consider is a fair and reasonable solution.
I intend to ask GSI to obtain the notional value at the date of any final decision of Mr Ls 
pension plan from company A as if the adviser fees hadnt been deducted between the start 
of July 2012 and the end of January 2019. They should then compare that notional value 
with the actual value at the date of calculation. 
If the calculation shows theres been a loss then GSI should pay that sum into Mr Ls 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of any charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a reduction of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax 
free and the rest would have been taxed according to Mr Ls likely tax paying status in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. And so the 15% reduction adequately reflects this. 
GSI should provide details of the calculations to Mr L in a clear and simple format.
Response to my provisional decision
GSI requested that Mr L provided a letter of authority to allow them to access information 
relating to the portfolio. This was provided. GSI didnt explicitly accept my provisional 
decision but they made no further points.
Mr L felt that my provisional decision was fair. But had minor reservations. He asked if there 
was a way he could get the figures wed asked GSI to produce checked. He confirmed that 
the basis on which he considered the provisional decision was fair would be if his fund would 
be: reimbursed by the commissions taken and the year on year growth of these values that 
have increased through natural, unmanaged gains. 
Our investigator explained that if Mr L were to accept my final decision, GSI would be legally 
bound by it. But that unfortunately, this service couldnt check the calculations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require GSI Wealth Management Limited to obtain the notional value at the date of this 
decision of Mr Ls pension plan from company A as if the adviser fees hadnt been deducted 
between the start of July 2012 and the end of January 2019. They should then compare that 
notional value with the actual value at the date of calculation. 
If the calculation shows theres been a loss then GSI should pay that sum into Mr Ls 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of any charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a reduction of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax 
free and the rest would have been taxed according to Mr Ls likely tax paying status in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. And so the 15% reduction adequately reflects this. 
GSI should provide details of the calculations to Mr L in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. GSI Wealth Management Limited should take the actions detailed in 
the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman