DRN-3015923
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Savings reduced the 
interest rate on a savings account during the application process and he says he was given 
conflicting and incorrect information about this. He wants compensating for his lost work time 
in dealing with this and for the frustration and inconvenience he has been caused. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Close Brothers has accepted that it made mistakes when opening Mr Ws savings 
account. And it has now applied the correct interest rate to the account from the date 
of the application and apologised for the level of service he received. That is fair.
Close Brothers has offered Mr W £50 compensation for the delays in resolving the 
issue. Mr W would like Close Brothers to compensate him for £460 he says he has 
lost in work time for dealing with this issue. Whilst recognising that Mr W had to 
persist in contacting Close Brothers to sort things out, I do not think I can award him 
£460 or any sum for his lost work time as he would like. Every consumer experiences 
some inconvenience and frustration in dealing with and resolving an issue like this, 
and we wouldnt normally award compensation for this. Here Close Brothers has 
offered to pay him £50 compensation as a goodwill gesture. I think that is fair. 
Close Brothers has also offered Mr W a further £20 compensation for some 
misleading information given in a communication. I think that is also fair.
Taking everything into account, including what happened and the level of awards we 
make, I do not think I can require reasonably Close Brothers to pay Mr W any more 
compensation than it has already offered, as he would like.
Mr W is also unhappy that the interest rate on the account was reduced some 
months later. But the terms and conditions of the account allow this, and Close 
Brothers acted appropriately and in line with the account terms and conditions by 
informing Mr W that this would happen and by then subsequently reducing the 
interest rate.
Mr W says similar issues may have affected other customers. But I cannot consider 
this, only what happened to Mr W. We also are not a regulator and cannot tell Close 
Brothers to change its procedures or practices.
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mr Ws frustration and strength 
of feeling, I do not think I can fairly or reasonably require Close Brothers to now do 
anything more than it has already done, including paying more compensation as he 
would like. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint and I simply leave it to Mr W to decide if he 
wants to accept, if he has not already done so, Close Brothers offer of a total of £70 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Close Brothers Limited trading 
as Close Brothers Savings. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman