DRN-4094925
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way a transfer was handled in branch by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
Mr J has explained he needed to make a large transfer so visited a Lloyds branch earlier this 
year. Mr J has told us he was concerned about security and keeping his personal 
information confidential so requested the transaction be completed in a private room with the 
door closed. Lloyds says that because of staffing levels on the day of Mr Js visit it was 
unable to accommodate his request. As a result, whilst Mr J was seen in a private room to 
complete the transfer, the door wasnt closed. 
Mr J complained to Lloyds and it sent him a final response. Lloyds said staffing levels meant 
it was unable to complete the transfer privately with the door closed. Lloyds also confirmed it 
doesnt arrange appointments to complete transfers but said it would take Mr Js suggestion 
into account going forward. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint. They thought Lloyds had made a 
reasonable point when it explained it required a certain number of staff to be present in the 
banking hall for security reasons. And the investigator said there were alternative options for 
completing the transfer over the phone or online without having to visit a branch. As the 
investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly they didnt ask it to do 
anything else. 
Mr J asked to appeal and said he was concerned about the amount of information discussed 
with staff in branch and levels of privacy provided. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr J was making a large transfer in branch and can understand why he was 
concerned with privacy during his visit. But I have to balance that against Lloyds claims that 
it has to ensure a certain staffing level is maintained within the banking hall for security 
reasons. Whilst I understand why Mr J wanted to handle the transfer in a private room with 
the door closed, Im satisfied Lloyds has provided a reasonable explanation setting out why 
that wasnt possible. 
Mr Js transfer was handled in a private room but the door wasnt fully closed. Lloyds says it 
was ajar, Mr J says it remained open. But its clear the door wasnt closed as Mr J wanted. I 
appreciate Mr J was unhappy with the situation, but Im satisfied staff were attempting to 
reach a compromise and took his requests into account as far as possible. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr J but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds treated him unfairly during his visit. 
I understand Mr J would like Lloyds to offer the facility to arrange appointments to carry out 
transfers. But Lloyds has confirmed thats not a service it currently offers. Lloyds has 
explained there are other options Mr J can consider that do offer higher levels of privacy. 
Lloyds has confirmed its telephone banking teams can transfer up to £100,000 a day. And 
Lloyds has also told us Mr J can use online banking to complete transfers of up to £25,000 a 
day. I appreciate there are transaction limits and Mr J told our investigator he prefers to carry 
out the transfers in person. But Im satisfied Lloyds has sought to provide Mr J with 
information concerning the different options open to him going forward. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds treated him 
unfairly or made mistakes when he visited the branch. As Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with 
Mr Js complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman