DRN-3705084
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund transactions on her account 
which she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Miss Y has explained that she fell victim to a scam. She received a call from someone 
claiming to be from Monzos fraud protection team, informing her that there had been 
attempted fraud on her account. They directed her to follow the instructions she received via 
an in-app notification, saying it was necessary to verify that the app was still working.
Miss Y then saw two payments for £200 and £250 leave her account. When she reported 
this to Monzo, it said she was liable for these payments as shed authorised them by 
agreeing to set up an Apple Pay token. Its since told us that its holding her liable as she 
failed to adequately verify who she was speaking to when the scammer called her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss Y isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
The PSRs specify that authorisation depends on whether the payment transactions 
were authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them. 
Its not in dispute that the payment was properly authenticated. 
The PSRs go on to state how consent is given. It must be in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and the payment service 
provider. In other words, Miss Y consents if she completes the agreed steps to make 
a payment. Or if someone else acts on her behalf and uses those agreed steps.
My understanding is that, to make these payments, the scammer first entered 
Miss Ys Monzo card details into an Apple Pay app. She was then sent a notification 
which required her to enter her PIN. The scammer then used Apple Pay on their 
device to make the payments in a shop. 
We dont know how the scammer got hold of Miss Ys card details. But Ive seen no 
suggestion that she shared these. Unfortunately, card details can be stolen in a 
myriad of ways. So its plausible and credible that an unauthorised person was able 
initiate the Apple Pay request and then use it to complete these transactions.
Miss Y contacted the shop in which the payments were made, and they told her they 
had CCTV of a man completing the transactions. I cant see that Monzo has disputed 
that someone other than Miss Y initiated the Apple Pay set up and then made the 
payments in-store. 
So the only step Miss Y completed was entering her PIN to set up Apple Pay. She 
didnt complete the remainder of the steps involved in authorising these payments. 
Nor did she enter her PIN with the intention or understanding that she was granting 
someone else authority to make payments. I therefore find them to be unauthorised. 
I dont find that Miss Y intentionally failed to keep her account or security details safe. 
Ive seen no suggestion that she shared her card details. And she only entered her 
PIN in her own app. She didnt think this would put account at risk  rather, she was 
told it was necessary to protect her account from attempted fraud. 
I dont find that Miss Y failed with gross negligence either. From what weve been 
told, it seems the scammer knew personal information about Miss Y which helped 
them impersonate Monzo more convincingly. 
The scammer told Miss Y her account was at risk, creating pressure and urgency. It 
told her to check her app to verify whether she recognised a payment from that 
morning. And she could see an active card check by the retailer the caller had 
mentioned. So this again helped persuade her to trust the caller.
The call did come from a private number, rather than an official Monzo number. But 
in the context of being worried that her money was being stolen, and given the 
reasons Miss Y has given for why she trusted the caller, I dont think she seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk in following the instructions she was given.
Monzo says Miss Y ought to have questioned why she needed to complete a link to 
set up Apple Pay to verify that her mobile app was still in her control. I understand 
the point its making, but I still dont think her actions were significantly careless.
Miss Y had been instructed to expect a notification. Although it mentioned Apple Pay, 
that was only on one screen, where she selected Add Card. It didnt specify which 
device this was being added to.
In the circumstances of being concerned her account was at risk, this would have all 
happened quickly. We know scammers use pressure and social engineering to 
persuade people. Miss Y didnt have much time or opportunity to reflect on what she 
was being asked to do by who she thought was a trustworthy party. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss Ys actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person would have done that she failed with gross negligence. I therefore 
find that Miss Y isnt liable for these payments. 
In line with its obligations under the PSRs, Monzo should have promptly refunded 
Miss Y for these unauthorised transactions. Its failure to do so caused her additional 
worry and upset. For example, shes told her that was worried about how she would 
pay her rent without these funds. To address this, I consider it fair for Monzo to pay 
her £100 compensation. Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Refund Miss Y for the unauthorised transactions, totalling £450;
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible) to compensate Miss Y for the loss of 
use of these funds; and 
Pay Miss Y £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things 
right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman