DRN-3102769
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the sum offered in settlement for his written-off car by 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage. In July 2020, unfortunately Mr M 
had an accident and his car was treated as having been a total loss and written off. Mr M 
made a claim on his insurance policy and received a settlement offer from Advantage of 
£2,520.
Mr M believes that Advantages valuation is too low and hes looking for a higher settlement 
of between £3,000 and £3,600 which he feels is a fairer reflection of the true value of his car. 
In the meantime, Mr M asked the garage to dispose of the vehicle to try to offset his costs. 
He considers that its unfair that hes also had to deal with this aspect of the matter.
Advantage considers that its valuation is fair and that its acted in accordance with standard 
industry practice in reaching the valuation. Mr M is unhappy following receipt of Advantages 
final decision letter however and hes complained to this service.
Our investigator has reached the view that Advantages valuation was within the range of the 
figures given by the relevant trade guides and in line with the terms of the policy. She said 
that the valuation of £2,520 which Advantage offered was higher than the value she arrived 
at, having carried out an investigation. The investigator had looked at three trade guides and 
reached the figure of £2,291. This figure was the average of the three values from the trade 
guides of £1,875, £3,250 and £1,749. In the circumstances, she didnt ask Advantage to do 
anything further.
Mr M remains unhappy with this outcome and the matter has been referred to me to make a 
final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, my role isnt to decide the exact value of Mr Ms car. My role is to decide whether 
the approach Advantage has taken in reaching its valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
As a service, we look at whether Advantage has applied the terms of the policy correctly and 
valued the vehicle fairly in line with standard industry practice.
In this case, I cant say that Advantage has acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching its 
valuation of Mr Ms car and Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to consider the policy terms and conditions. The relevant part 
states that in the event of a vehicle being written off, Advantage may compensate the 
policyholder for the market value of the vehicle;
 If your Car is damaged or lost because of an accident there are three ways your Policy 
can help you get back on the road again. Your Insurer will do one of the following:
 Pay for any necessary repairs
 Replace your Car
 Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss.
The term Market Value is defined in the policy to mean; The cost of replacing your Car in 
the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, 
model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be the value you declared when the 
insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to 
assess the Market Value and will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and
condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you bought it.
Advantage states in its final decision letter to Mr M that the trade guides take into account 
the make and model of a vehicle, its age, mileage and general condition. It clarifies that; The 
guide figures we use are based on actual sales transactions as opposed to advertised 
asking prices which reflect the sellers highest expectations and are inevitably subject to 
negotiations.
 
Advantage also states that the trade guides valued Mr Ms vehicle at £3,260 and £1,895.00 
and that; The financial ombudsman would expect us to value the vehicle with the average of 
the top two most consistent guide figures and we are in the scope of the average with 
valuation we have placed on your vehicle.
Mr M states that the selling price of a vehicle doesnt differ much from the asking price in his 
experience. He produced adverts for two cars which were similar to his own for £3,600 and 
£2,950. Mr M accepts that his car was old and had quite high mileage. He also makes the 
point that when a car is valued at £3,000 to £4,000, the maximum you get discounted is 
maybe £200 to £300 and that; these are the realistic market forces at play.
Finally, Mr M feels that as the trade guides aren't available to him or other people then the 
market values should work differently.
Its standard practice for insurers to use trade valuation guides to reach the estimated 
market value and this is the approach which Advantage took. Although we dont consider 
this to be an exact science, we generally find valuations given in the main motor trade 
guides provide the most persuasive, reliable and consistent evidence. These guides are 
based on extensive nationwide research of likely, but not actual, selling prices.
Its often possible to find adverts for cars for sale at a much higher price than someone 
would have to pay if they shopped around. Although Mr M has supplied two adverts which 
might suggest a valuation of at least £3,000, we find that advertised prices are generally less 
reliable than the trade guides. They vary widely and usually, even more widely than trade 
guides and they tend to have some margin built in for negotiating the price down, particularly 
in the case of high mileage vehicles such as Mr Ms.
In this case, the two industry guides produced by Advantage indicate quite different 
valuations. They nevertheless provide persuasive evidence and a valuable starting point for 
an appropriate market value calculation and take account of factors such as high mileage. 
The valuation provided by Advantage is roughly the mid-point between the two trade guide 
valuations and this is the approach which we would expect it to take in such circumstances. 
In conclusion, I agree with our investigator in this case that Advantage has acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances. The settlement figure it has provided is higher than the one calculated independently by our investigator and is well within the range of values found 
within three trade guides. Im therefore satisfied that Advantage reached its conclusion on 
the question of market value in a fair and reasonable manner.
As to the arrangements for disposal of Mr Ms vehicle, Advantage states that it attempted to 
arrange collection of the vehicle with the garage. It said that the garage didnt send a correct 
invoice in order for Advantage to settle outstanding storage charges. It also said that it 
declared no interest in the vehicle to avoid incurring unnecessary costs. Finally, it stated that 
it would contact the garage to inform them they could arrange disposal of the vehicle. In all 
the circumstances, I cant say that Advantage acted in an unreasonable fashion in this 
respect.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Advantage has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances and I dont require it to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman