DRN-1789987
The complaint
Mr H has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
On 17 April 2019, Mr H took out motorbike insurance online with MCE using a comparison 
site. In June 2017, he made a claim because the motorbike was stolen. MCE investigated 
the claim and concluded that, when he took out the policy, Mr H had made a deliberate and 
reckless misrepresentation that the motorbike was kept overnight in a garage, but it didnt 
think it was. So it, avoided the policy and retained the premiums Mr H had paid. It also 
declined the claim Mr H made.
Mr H complained to MCE. He said that, before he took out the policy, hed had a call with 
MCE and when he described where the motorbike would be kept overnight, he was told by 
the agent to select garage in answer to the question where is the bike kept overnight? 
MCE said Mr H had completed an online application form and was asked a clear question 
about the storage of his motorbike, which he answered incorrectly. It didnt think its agent 
had advised Mr H to select garage in answer to the question about overnight storage. It 
noted it had provided Mr H with quotes through two comparison websites and that in one call 
Mr H said the motorbike was kept in a locked compound. He later bought the policy online 
through the second comparison website, having selected garage as the storage type.
MCE maintained Mr H had made a qualifying misrepresentation which was deliberate or 
reckless, and that he was in breach of the duty of a customer as set out in the Consumer 
(Disclosure & Representations) Insurance Act 2012 (CIDRA). So it said it was entitled to 
avoid the contract, refuse the claim and retain all paid premiums.
Mr H didnt agree with MCE, so he complained to this service about the outcome of the 
claim. He also complained about MCEs handling of his complaint, and the fact it had failed 
to return his calls. He said, when he took out the policy, he was given three options for 
where the motorbike would be kept overnight. He said he discussed this with MCE, and was 
advised to select garage. He said there was a recording of the call, but MCE had refused to 
give it to him. He explained the motorbike had been kept in a building belonging to his 
landlord.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted Mr H had said in a call 
to MCE that the motorbike would be kept in a locked compound, but he later selected garage 
when completing the online application form. He commented the images Mr H had provided 
confirmed the motorbike wasnt kept in a garage or a locked compound. He felt Mr H ought 
to have been reasonably aware the option he was selecting wasn't correct and he ought to 
have ended the application at the point where he was asked where the bike was kept  as 
none of the options available applied to him.
Our investigator acknowledged Mr H had said he was told selecting a garage would have 
been acceptable, but he hadnt seen any evidence this was the case or been given a copy of 
the call recording. So, he concluded the call probably didnt happen.
The investigator thought Mr H knew the answer he gave was incorrect, that it qualified as a 
misrepresentation and that MCE could fairly say it was reckless or deliberate. He was 
satisfied MCE had acted reasonably by refusing the claim, avoiding the policy and retaining 
the premiums. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its been passed 
to me to consider. He said he felt ripped off by MCE, the outcome of the claim was wrong 
and he did nothing wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. If the misrepresentation was 
reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at least offered the policy on 
different terms, its  entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the misrepresentation was 
careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt have offered the policy at 
all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it effectively treats the policy as never existing. So 
this means it will not have to deal with any claims made under it. If the qualifying 
misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have charged a higher premium if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to consider the claim and settle it 
proportionately if it accepts it. 
MCE thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated the overnight storage location of his motorbike was a garage. Ive looked at question 
Mr H was asked when he completed the online application and Im satisfied it was clear and 
unambiguous. 
As part of the online application, Mr H was asked where is the bike kept overnight? And the 
comparison website gave him three options  a driveway, a road or a garage. Mr H said the 
bike was kept in a garage. But Im conscious that, prior to Mr H taking out the policy, hed 
spoken with MCE and voluntarily said the bike was kept in a locked compound. So I think he 
knew the bike wasnt being kept in a garage. And  I think he knew he was providing incorrect 
information when answering the question. 
I note Mr H has said he believed garage was the option that more accurately fitted where 
he intended to keep the motorbike overnight, but this doesnt mean garage was the correct 
description. I dont think Mr H should have continued with the application or he should have 
sought separate guidance. And I dont think it was reasonable for him to knowingly choose an incorrect answer. So I think he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said the overnight storage location would be a garage, knowing 
the answer was incorrect. 
Mr H has said he was told on the phone by one of MCEs agents that he should select 
garage, but I havent seen anything to support this. He previously suggested he had a copy 
of the call, but he hasnt provided a copy of this to MCE or this service. As I said above, Ive 
listened to the call Mr H had with MCE prior to him taking out the policy and he told MCE he 
thought the motorbike was being kept in a locked compound. The call handler didnt advise 
Mr H at any point to select garage. And Mr H hasnt given us anything to show that there 
was a second call with MCE.
MCE has provided evidence which shows that, if Mr H had not made this misrepresentation, 
it would have charged a higher premium had it known where Mr H was storing the 
motorbike. So, Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
MCE has said it thinks Mr Hs misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. CIDRA 
considers a qualifying misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew it 
was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or misleading. 
MCE has provided evidence that Mr H obtained other insurance quotes by selecting different 
options of where the motorbike would be kept. It has suggested this shows he was looking 
for the cheapest quote, and supports its conclusion that he knew he was making a 
misrepresentation. Mr H maintains he was acting on the advice on MCEs agent, but as Ive 
noted above, theres no evidence to support this. 
The fact Mr H had selected different options of where the motorbike would be kept and the 
nature of the photos he sent in means I think he must have known he wouldnt be keeping 
the motorbike overnight in a garage. So I satisfied the misrepresentation was, at the very 
least, reckless. Therefore, Im satisfied MCE was entitled to avoid Mr Hs policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  the policy never existed, MCE 
didnt have to deal with the claim following the theft of Mr Hs motorbike. 
Finally, Mr H has said there were occasions when MCE didnt return his calls. Ive 
considered the communication and customer service Mr H has received since he made the 
claim and Im satisfied it was of a reasonable standard throughout. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman