DRN-2201489
The complaint
Mr V complains that Devitt Insurance Services Limited caused a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) to be made against him when his motor insurance policy was cancelled. He wants the 
CCJ removed.
What happened
Mr V took out a policy though Devitt in 2015. The policys underwriter asked for further 
information. But Mr V wasnt able to provide this, and he said the policy was cancelled. But 
Mr V recently found that Devitt had taken him to court and a CCJ had been issued against 
him for non-payment of a debt. He didnt think this was fair as he said the cover didnt go 
ahead. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought we 
couldnt look at whether or not Mr V owed Devitt anything as a court had already decided 
that he did. She didnt think we look at the insurers decision to cancel the policy. But she 
thought Devitt had told Mr V the policy had cancelled, and it had written to him to tell him that 
it was taking him to court over the payment. So she didnt think Devitt had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr V replied that he didnt know Devitt was pursuing him for money or about the court 
hearing. He said he didnt get its letters as hed moved. He asked how he could get the CCJ 
removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr V feels frustrated that when he applied for a mortgage he found 
there was a CCJ against him. 
Like the investigator, I cant overturn what a court has decided. So I cant look at whether it 
was fair for Devitt to pursue him for the payment. Nor can I look at whether it was fair for the 
insurer to cancel the policy because it is a separate business. But I can consider whether 
Devitt acted fairly and reasonably in administering the policy. 
Devitt said that after the policy was cancelled, it wrote to Mr V in November 2015 to tell him 
that there was an outstanding amount owing for the policy. It said Mr V had called it to 
contest this. But when it took the money from his card, he made a chargeback because he 
said he didnt recognise the transaction although the transaction was stated as Devitt.  
Devitt said it then wrote to Mr V again in January 2016 seeking payment otherwise it would 
pass the debt to its recovery team. I can see that Mr V called Devitt in February 2016 to say 
that hed been out of the country. Devitt then explained that the policy had been cancelled 
and an amount remained owing. Devitt said it didnt hear anything further from Mr V and it 
wrote to him again in October 2016 to warn him that it was about to issue court proceedings 
against him. 
I can see that Devitts letters went to the address it held on file for Mr V. Mr V responded to 
the early letters. So I think he must have received some of these letters and been made 
reasonably aware of the outstanding amount owing. Also, Mr V called Devitt twice about the 
disputed amount. Mr V said he moved away and so he wasnt aware of the court 
proceedings. But I cant hold Devitt responsible for this or say it should have emailed Mr V. I 
cant see that Mr V told Devitt that he was moving. 
So I think Devitt made Mr V aware that his policy had cancelled, and an amount remained 
owing. So I cant say that it did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman