DRN-2318351
The complaint
Mrs L complains she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in August 1997 when she took out a charge card.
A third party sold the PPI to Mrs L. But Allianz Insurance Plc as the insurer has accepted 
responsibility for this sale and by extension this complaint. For the purposes of this decision
Ive referred throughout to Allianz.
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy in August 1997 at the same time as taking out a charge card by 
completing an application form in a store.
Mrs L says through her representatives that the person who offered the charge card to her 
never disclosed the card also came with an insurance policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint because:
 I think Allianz made Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because the application form used at the time of sale would have 
required Mrs L to tick a box on the application form to say that she wanted the cover 
and add her name in the same section. The application form is then signed, 
indicating that all that was contained within it, was an indication of what Mrs L wanted 
at that time. 
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did need to ensure that it provided her with clear information about the 
policy so that Mrs L could make an informed choice about whether to have it. 
 Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think better information would have put Mrs L off from 
having the policy. I say this because although Mrs L says she had sick pay with her 
employer at the time of sale, I think she would have benefited from having the cover 
in a time of need especially over an extended period of time. It is unlikely Mrs L 
would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. The 
policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So, I dont think better 
information wouldve stopped her buying it.
In conclusion, I couldnt find a reason to uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman