DRN-2015459
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002 in one of the bank's 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mrs H applied for the credit card. It 
gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she was told the PPI was complulsory. Barlcays disputes this. I can't know what 
was said in the meeting, but Barclays has provided the application form Mrs H signed and 
this shows she indicated that she wanted PPI. And theres nothing on the form that I think 
could reasonably have led Mrs H to think it was mandatory. On balance, I think Barclays 
made Mrs H aware the PPI was optional, and she chose to take it. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it needed to check if it was suitable for her. 
Based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time I think its most likely it was. 
Mrs H told us she was entitled to more than 12 months sick pay, but cant provide 
documentation to evidence this. I note on the call she had with the bank about her 
complaint she recalled she was entiutled to six months full pay and six months half pay. 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months. She said 
she was entitled to some redundancy pay. But the PPI would have also paid out in addition 
to this for up to 12 months. It would have allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment from her employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mrs H told us she had savings worth more than 12 months salary, but is unable to provide 
any supporting documentation. On the call with the bank about this complaint she said she 
wouldnt have had a large amount of savings, perhaps 2 months cover. The PPI would 
have allowed Mrs H to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, 
or to keep them intact for her future needs. 
I know Mrs H is frustrated that she has been asked to provide more evidence of her 
circumstances. I dont think its unreasonable she hasnt been able to do this given how 
logn ago the sale was. In situations like this where there is limited evidence, I have to 
decide what I think is most likely. Without stronger evidence, taking into account the 
inconsistencies between her testimony to the bank and to this service, I cant fairly 
conclude she had sufficient other means in 2002 not to need PPI. 
Overall, I think its most likely the PPI would have been useful for Mrs H if she was sick or 
lost her job.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Mrs H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mrs H 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think she would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
- Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair.
- To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman