DRN-3479590
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 about this complaint that I summarise below.
Ms S was given a loan of £1,650 by EDL in September 2018. This was due to be repaid in
18 monthly instalments of around £189. The total amount payable, including interest, was
just over £3,417. I understand the loan has been settled.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
EDL needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I said that EDL was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
in order to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loan.
EDL carried out some checks before it lent to Ms S. This included asking for details of her
income and expenditure, carrying out some credit checks and requesting a payslip and bank
statements. EDL calculated Ms Ss regular living expenses using ONS data and assessed
her monthly credit commitments.
Id seen a summary of the information gathered by EDL, including the credit report and
bank statements Ms S provided to EDL at the time. From what Id seen, I thought the checks
that EDL carried out before lending to Ms S were reasonable and proportionate, in the
circumstances.
The credit report acquired by EDL showed Ms S had one loan with a total balance
outstanding of £444 and a total outstanding revolving account balance of £784. There was
very little adverse information on the credit report apart from a default at the beginning of
2018 and two further details in 2017 which I thought EDL might reasonably consider to be
historic.
From what Id seen, EDL was aware that Ms S had recently taken car finance and factored
those monthly payments into its assessment of the loans affordability for her, in her
circumstances. I thought EDL would most likely be aware from Ms Ss bank statements that
she had also taken additional short-term lending in the weeks before her loan application.
But I didnt think EDL ought reasonably to have concluded from Ms Ss bank statements that
there were signs of significant financial distress, such as regular high levels of gambling or
significant bank charges for unarranged overdrafts or frequently returned requests for
payment, all of which might have signalled to EDL that Ms S was experiencing severe
financial difficulties.
Ms S told EDL she intended to consolidate some of her outstanding debt with her EDL loan.
I considered whether the information that EDL gathered should reasonably have led it to
decline Ms Ss application. I appreciate that Ms S had borrowed from short term lenders in
the months before she applied to EDL and had taken out car finance. But it seemed to me 
that EDL considered Ms Ss ongoing credit commitments, including her relatively low level of
indebtedness, her low outgoings from living at home, her bank statements, and what Ms S
said were her plans to use EDLs loan to consolidate some of her borrowing. On balance, I
didnt think there was anything which should have caused EDL any additional concerns 
about Ms Ss financial position when she applied for the loan. Or that should have led the 
lender to reasonably conclude that lending to Ms S would be unfair or irresponsible in
some way.
Did EDL treat Ms S unfairly in some other way?
I hadnt seen anything which made me think that EDL treated Ms S unfairly in some other 
way. And from what Id seen, I could not fairly say that EDL ought reasonably to have 
concluded that it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend to Ms S, in her circumstances.
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint and I invited the parties to provide any further 
evidence or comments before I made my final decision.
I have not seen any further evidence from either party and the deadline for commenting on 
my provisional decision has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter.
Given that I have not seen any further evidence that changes my mind about this complaint, 
I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I cannot fairly say that EDL 
ought reasonably to have concluded that it would be irresponsible to lend to Ms S in her 
circumstances and I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman