DRN-3544792
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined a claim on his 
commercial motor insurance policy following the theft of his van.
What happened
Mr Bs van was stolen so he called his insurer Ageas to make a claim. Ageas declined the 
claim as it said that during the course of the investigation Mr B had provided false 
information in a bid to influence it to accept his claim.
Mr B said this wasnt true and complained. He said his van had been stolen whilst both he 
and his father were working out of the van. He said any anomalies about how hed described 
what happened had been corrected once hed confirmed the exact details of what happened 
with his father. 
Ageas said both Mr Bs explanation of what happened when he first called up, and when he 
amended his statement after speaking with his father, didnt match the CCTV footage that 
had been provided. It said that Mr Bs version of events contained inaccuracies and were 
misleading. 
Mr B brought the complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed this complaint and 
asked Ageas what would happen if it was asked to reconsider the claim. Ageas advised the 
investigator that the claim would still be declined. It said the keys were left in the van, a 
scenario that the policy terms and conditions excluded from cover. So, our investigator 
reviewed this complaint in full and having considered everything, felt Ageas was acting 
unfairly. The investigator said that even though there were inaccuracies in Mr Bs version of 
events, it wasnt enough to invalidate the claim. The investigator also said Mr B and his 
father were close enough to the van for it to be deemed as attended. So, our investigator 
said Ageas should now pay the claim in full, plus 8% interest from the date of the theft.
However, Ageas doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2022. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Its our role to make sure Ageas has made a fair and reasonable decision when it declined 
the claim. Our approach is to review Ageass actions and to decide whether it has done 
enough to fairly and reasonably decline Mr Bs claim in line with the available evidence and 
the terms and conditions of his policy. 
The circumstances of the theft
Ageas says Mr B provided false information to influence the claim. It says that as per its 
terms and conditions it can refuse to pay the whole of a claim if any part is in any way 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated. However, Mr B says that he didnt provide false 
information. He says as everything happened so quickly, he wasnt clear about what 
happened. But that when the circumstances of the theft were clarified to him, he called 
Ageas and corrected any factual errors hed made.
There were a number of calls with Mr B following the theft, and Ive listened to them all. In 
the first call Mr B explains that he was with his father washing wheelie bins for a customer. 
He says the van was parked and both the sliding side door and the back doors of the van 
were open. There was a power washer inside the van and the power washer hose was 
running out of the back doors. His father was washing the bins at the back doors of the van. 
He says the side door was open as hed opened it to switch on the power washer. Mr B says 
he had exited the van to run into the customers house. He said the keys were in a small bag 
with his phone and money and were on the ground where his father was working. Ageas 
spoke to Mr B three times that day, and the story stayed the same. During the last call 
Ageas made Mr B aware of a CCTV video of the theft it had found online, and it asked Mr B 
if he wanted to add anything to his version of events. Mr B said no.
A few hours later Mr B called Ageas and said that hed spoken to his father and he wanted to 
amend his version of events. He said that his father had told him that the keys were not in a 
bag at the back of the van. He said they were in the bag, but the bag was on the front seat of 
the van. Mr B said he thought he took the bag out of the van, but he said his father has told 
him this wasnt the case.  At this point Ageas said that it had gone through the 
circumstances with him three times, and asked Mr B if he now he wanted to change his 
version of events. Mr B said yes. Ageas asked Mr B to run through the circumstances again, 
specifically asking Mr B whether the keys were in the ignition, or on the seat. Mr B says the 
keys were on the seat. Ageas asked whether the power washer or the water pump needed 
the van to be running to work. Mr B said no, and Ageas advised Mr B it would review the 
situation again.
In the final call with Mr B, Ageas says that it had reviewed his version of events, alongside 
the CCTV. It said Mr Bs version of events didnt match the CCTV footage of the theft. Mr B 
is very confused by this. He said his van was stolen and he wants to claim. He asked Ageas 
if it thinks hes lying. Ageas said it had given him a number of opportunities to give his 
version of what happened. It said its run through the circumstances a few times, and his 
version of events doesnt match whats on the CCTV, so theres no cover for the claim.
Ageas has expanded this a bit further in its correspondence with this service. It says:
Mr Bs version of events did not match what was shown on the CCTV footage. It says 
the bag was clearly not at the back of the van as the CCTV shows the thief walk 
across the road, get into the van and drive off very quickly. There was no pickup of a 
bag at the rear of the vehicle. 
Ageas also says that its clear the keys were in the ignition and this is shown by how 
quickly the thief drove away. Ageas says the CCTV shows the headlights were on 
and this supports the theory the van was running at the time it was stolen. Ageas 
says if the keys had been removed the thief would not have been able to gain such 
easy access to the vehicle and therefore drive off in a matter of seconds
Ageas confirms Mr Bs father was at the rear of the vehicle, but it says he does not 
see the thief approach. It says the back doors were open and this wouldve blocked 
his view and Ageas says that there doesnt seem to be any deterrent to the theft 
regardless of how close Mr B or his father were to the vehicle.
Ageas says that its likely the thief could see and/or hear the vehicle engine running 
and knew it would be an easy theft  especially as the owner of the vehicle would not 
have seen the thief approach the vehicle.Ageas says that after reviewing this CCTV, it gave Mr B the opportunity to see if 
there was anything he needed to add  he advised no and continued with his original 
version of events. Ageas says Mr B only changed his version of what happened 
when it advised that it had seen the CCTV.  It says this is a clear case of false 
information being provided in a bid to influence the claim. 
Ageas says it wouldnt extend cover for theft when no-one was in the van, unless all 
windows, doors and roof openings are closed and locked and keys removed.
Ageas has provided two CCTV clips which Ive reviewed a number of times. The first CCTV 
clip is a side view and starts as the van is being driven away. You can clearly see Mr Bs 
father stumbling after the van, as it speeds away with all doors open and the power washer 
hose/gun trailing behind it. Mr Bs father shouts at his son, who at this point arrives at the 
scene. 
The other CCTV clip, although slightly blurred, actually gives a clearer picture of what 
happens. You can see the van, and Mr B exiting the passengers side of the van. You can 
see wheelie bins at the back and side of the van. It looks like Mr B picks up a bin and walks 
off to the right. At this point a person crosses from the opposite side of the street, opens the 
drivers door, gets in and drives off. You can see the water from the power washer gun spray 
up in the air and a person at the back stumbling after the van. As the van speeds off another 
person (Mr B), comes into view. The video clips provided by both parties showing the theft 
are the same, but the version provided by Mr B is slightly longer and catches a snippet of a 
conversation between people who are watching the video of the theft. In it a woman clearly 
says she was stood outside when it happened. 
So, the question is whether Ageas did enough to decline the claim based on the evidence 
provided. We can take it from the video evidence that the key was more likely than not in the 
van, and not in a bag at the back as suggested by Mr B initially. The thief goes directly to the 
drivers door. The thief doesnt go to the back of the van first. Ageas says Mr B deliberately 
misled it with this statement. When we spoke to Mr B he said that the key couldve been 
anywhere. He said that depending on whos actually washing, or whos taking calls and 
doing administration etc, both he and his father drive and they tend to leave the key on the 
floor, in the bag, on the seat or in the ignition. 
Ageas is adamant the key was in the ignition. It says the theft happened so quickly; the van 
had to be running. If so, the key had to be in the ignition. But I cant be sure. If you look 
closely at the CCTV, the video clip has actually been speeded up. The footage is actually 
moving at twice the speed of real time, so even though the theft looks to have happened 
very quickly, it actually didnt happen as fast as the video clip would suggest. Looking at the 
timings Im not so sure its as clear cut as Ageas think and the thief could realistically have 
had time to pick up the key from the seat and start the van. 
Ageas also says as the headlights were on, this means the van was definitely running. To 
me it does look like the headlights are on. But on this particular type of van, the headlights 
do remain on, for up to 10 mins after the key has been removed. And all lights will stay on for 
longer if any/all doors are open. So, in short, the van doesnt need to be running for the 
headlights to be on. And this puts a question mark over the assumptions Ageas has made 
about whether the van was running at the time.
So, Im not convinced Ageas conclusions are as strong as we are first led to believe. I agree 
its more likely than not the key was somewhere in the front of the van. But even Mr B when 
we asked him isnt sure whether the key was in the ignition or even if the van was running. 
So, the key could also have been on the drivers seat as he suggested when he amended 
his version of events. This confusion about the key doesnt necessarily mean Mr B was deliberately misleading 
Ageas. Mr B just had his van stolen and as we can see he was actually away from the van 
when this happened. Ive listened to all calls and I do think theres certain hesitation. Yes, I 
agree its clear the keys were not in a bag at the back of the van. But speaking to Mr B its 
clear himself and his father leave the keys in numerous places. And as they work in or 
around the van all the time, its clear they thought this was a reasonable thing to do. Further 
to this, it may be that Mr B changed his version of events when the CCTV evidence came to 
light. But he says the keys were in the van in the amended version of events, and the policy 
excludes cover for the loss of the van when the keys are left in or on the vehicle. So, even if 
he did deliberately amend the story after the video came to light, it wouldnt have gained Mr 
B any advantage or led to the claim being paid out. So, I cant say for certain that Mr B 
deliberately misled Ageas in order to influence the claim. Further to this, its now clear that 
his amended story could very well be what actually happened. The questions around the 
speeded-up video clip and the headlights, call into question Ageas assumptions. And Mr B 
actually sent Ageas the footage from the CCTV, after he had a call with them. So, Im not 
sure this points to a man who is trying to deliberately mislead his insurer. 
Ageas says that Mr B provided false information in a bid to influence us to accept the claim. 
And under the policy terms and conditions this means Ageas can refuse to pay the claim. 
But in order to impose this term on Mr B, Ageas would have to be able to prove that he did 
provide false information. 
My role is to decide if Ageas has done enough to exclude this claim using this specific term. 
And Im not confident that Ageas has done enough to prove this. I agree that what Mr B 
initially said wasnt correct. But Mr B wasnt actually at the scene when the theft occurred. 
So, he was never going to have a true version of events.  His amended version of events is 
plausible. And it was for Ageas to investigate this in full, including, but not limited to 
interviewing Mr Bs father and the potential witness we hear at the end of the video clip. But 
there is no witness statement, nor can I see there was any attempt to get one. The decision 
to decline seems rushed and based purely on CCTV evidence that we now know was 
speeded up, and a version of events provided by Mr B, who wasnt actually there when the 
theft occurred. I dont think Ageas did enough for it to safely say Mr B provided false 
information. And as such I dont think its fair or reasonable for Ageas to use this specific 
term to exclude the claim. 
Policy exclusion
So, lets move on to the second exclusion relating to the keys in the van, and whether it 
applies. We asked Ageas what it would do if we asked it to reconsider the claim given what 
Ive set out above. Ageas has said it wouldnt cover the loss and its told us in an email there 
is an exclusion for Loss of or damage to the vehicle when no-one is in it unless all the 
windows, doors and roof openings are closed and locked and the keys removed.
The policy terms and conditions provided has a similar term, albeit worded slightly 
differently. It says it excludes the loss of or damage to the vehicle when no-one is in it if any 
window, door, roof opening, removable roof panel or hood was left open or unlocked; or the 
keys (or any other device needed to lock the vehicle) are left in or on the vehicle.
The CCTV would indicate that the keys were left in the vehicle. They were either in the 
ignition or on the drivers seat area. So, as per the policy terms the loss would be excluded 
when no-one is in the vehicle. When we talk about keys in car exclusions this organisation 
has a very clear approach. And as part of that approach we pay particular attention to 
whether the driver was in a position to deter the thief or make a theft unlikely to take place.However, the specific term in this particular policy is stricter. It excludes the loss if no-one is 
in the vehicle. So, in essence it doesnt matter whether the driver/named driver was in a 
position to deter. They need to be in the vehicle.
Mr B wasnt in the vehicle. Nor was he close enough to deter the thief, as hed gone out of 
sight to return a bin to a customer. But Mr Bs father was working out of the back of the van. 
Ageas say Whilst Mr Bs father is at the rear of the vehicle, it would seem he does not see 
the thief approach the vehicle as the back doors were open and would have blocked his view 
 it isnt until the thief drives away that we see both Mr B and his father chase after the 
vehicle. There doesnt seem to be any deter to the theft regardless of how close Mr B or his 
father were to the vehicle.
But this isnt the test. The test is whether Mr Bs father was in the van. Its clear the term is 
designed to cover the van when it's left and not in use. But Mr Bs business determines that 
when he and his father are working, they are effectively using the van. They are in and out, 
and around the van at all times. All the back and side doors are required to be open to 
accommodate the use of the power washer. The power washer has pipes and hoses running 
through each door. Mr Bs father is holding one of these hoses as he operates the washer. 
And this is evident as the hose spins up in the air as the van is stolen, and you can clearly 
see Mr Bs father stumble at the back as the van pulls away.  Hes clearly very close to the 
van when its stolen and as Ageas has pointed out hes actually standing between the back 
doors of the van. At any one-time Mr Bs father could be reaching into the van to work the 
power washer, or the hoses, or actually using the hoses at the back of the van.  This 
scenario is similar to someone who is loading or unloading at the back of a van. And in this 
type of situation it would be fair and reasonable to deem the person carrying out the action to 
be in the van. So, I believe in this specific instance, as Mr Bs father is using the van to 
carry out his work he is effectively "in it.  And therefore, it's not fair and reasonable to apply 
this specific exclusion in these specific circumstances. 
So, in conclusion, I dont think Ageas did enough to make a fair and reasonable decision 
about whether or not Mr B had provided misleading information. Its clear the video speed 
was increased. There is a question mark over the assumptions made that were supported by 
the headlights and Ageas didnt interview any witnesses. Further to this Mr B wasnt actually 
there when the van was stolen. So, its not safe for Ageas to say with certainty that Mr B 
provided misleading information, and as such its not fair or reasonable to apply this specific 
exclusion in this specific instance. Further to this, even though its more likely than not that 
the keys were in the van at the time, I think Mr Bs father, who was working out of the van at 
the time was in effect deemed to be in the van. As such, its not fair or reasonable to apply 
this exclusion in this specific case. And its because of this that Im planning on upholding 
this complaint. Im planning on recommending that Ageas settles this claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of this policy with 8% added. Im not planning on 
recommending any compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 13 May 2022 as set out above. Mr B didnt respond. Ageas 
did respond and it raised a number of issues. 
Ageas said the video was not speeded up. It reiterated the point that it believed the keys 
were in the ignition and were not safeguarded. Ageas said it had contacted the manufacturer 
with a query about the headlights remaining on after the key was removed and it asked for 
an extension in order to get a reply.We responded to Ageas. We advised Ageas that the video was speeded up and we 
explained the timings of it. We acknowledged Ageass concern about the keys and advised 
that we agreed the keys were more likely than not in the van as set out in the provisional 
decision. We allowed Ageas an extension to contact the manufacturer. That extension has 
now expired, and Ageas has responded. Ageas has nothing further to add. 
So, as there are no further issues raised, I see no reason to depart from my findings as set 
out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim in full as per the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Add 8% simple interest to the amount paid from date of claim to date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman