DRN-4022958
The complaint
Mr P complains about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finances 
(who Ill call Novuna) decision not to uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr and Mrs P have brought this complaint to our service, but as only Mr P is party to the 
finance agreement I will, on occasion, only refer to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect 
to Mrs P when doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P as I can see hes had a very difficult time here, but I think 
Novuna have fulfilled their obligations in respect of the section 75 claim and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, like the one here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has the same right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the installation has been
performed with reasonable care and skill.
I can see that Mr P and his wife have had a difficult time. Theyve had to call the supplier 
back on many occasions to have remedial work completed and have instructed a surveyor to 
highlight the issues theyve had. Theres also been some damage to furniture and flooring 
and some water staining and cracking that was fortunately resolved when other work was 
completed by the maintenance company.
In September 2022 Novuna explained that there was a conflict between what the supplier, 
who Ill call G, claimed and what the surveyor appointed by Mr P claimed. There was a 
dispute about whether guttering needed to have a fall and whether the gutter boxing was 
insulated to prevent condensation. Novuna therefore suggested that a further inspection was 
completed by an independent third party. That seems a logical and necessary approach 
given the conflicting opinions. Mr P and his wife agreed to allow a company Ill call R to 
inspect the property and provide a report.
That report was completed in January 2023, and I think its fair to rely on the contents of that 
report rather than the preceding reports because:
Mr P, Mrs P, and Novuna had agreed on it in order to resolve any disputes.
The inspector was very experienced and independent.
R was able to comment on the previous surveyors report, and on Gs assertions, and 
was able to provide a considered opinion drawing on the industry guidance.
R concluded that:
The roof is now correctly installed and watertight. It is my opinion that there
were two main causes for the original water ingress; firstly the lack of lead flashing
at the box gutter abutments which was allowing water between the back of the box
gutter and the facia. Secondly the outlet / box gutter adaptor at the right hand side
of the conservatory (above the door) this was allowing water to track back under the
internal capping. Both of these issues have now been resolved and the water ingress 
abated No further remedial works are required unless any further water ingress is
evidenced.
G has therefore resolved the issue for Mr P and has offered what I think is reasonable 
compensation for the damage that has been incurred. In those circumstances I dont think 
Novuna need to take any further action as there is no longer a breach of contract.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman