DRN-3334539
The complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and their decision to 
suspend and then close his account.
What happened
Mr C held a credit card account provided by Barclays with a £2,000 credit limit. 
In September 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr C explaining, due to the way he managed his 
account over the previous 18 months, hed been classed as in persistent debt. They 
explained Mr C had paid more in interest, fees and charges than what hed paid back 
towards the balance of the account. So, they advised Mr C to increase his monthly 
repayments, so he could clear the outstanding debt in a quicker amount of time.
Barclays wrote to Mr C again twice in June 2020, explaining he remained in persistent debt 
and again advised Mr C his monthly repayments would need to increase. Mr Cs payments 
failed to increase to a level that moved him out of persistent debt. So, Barclays wrote to Mr C 
on 2 March explaining that his card would be suspended, while setting out repayment 
options.
Mr C cleared the outstanding balance on the card on the same day. But Barclays proceeded 
to suspend the account on 4 May 2021 and close it in June 2021. Mr C was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr C didnt think Barclays acted fairly when suspending and closing his account and hed 
cleared the outstanding balance. Mr C explained hed never missed a payment, or asked for 
a payment holiday, so he didnt think his management of the account warranted it being 
closed. Mr C explained his financial situation remained the same as when hed taken out and 
throughout the lifetime of the account, so he didnt think Barclays had acted fairly. So, Mr C 
wanted to be compensated for the upset this caused.
Mr C also complained about the service provided by Barclays when he contacted them to 
question the account closure and raise a complaint.
Barclays responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought their decision to suspend 
the account was fair and in line with their process and Mr C was deemed to be in persistent 
debt. And even though Mr C cleared the balance, they thought their decision to continue with 
the suspension was reasonable to ensure Mr C didnt fall into persistent debt again. They 
also explained they customer service centres had been significantly impacted by the COVID-
19 pandemic which had led to staff being asked to help handle customer queries without 
necessarily receiving the full training they needed. So, they recognised Mr C may not have 
been happy with the service he received but they didnt think this resulted from an avoidable 
mistake they had made. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Barclays had 
acted fairly, and in line with the rules set by the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), when deeming Mr C to be in persistent debt. And they were satisfied 
Barclays had followed the correct process when notifying Mr C of this and how his monthly 
repayments needed to increase. As Mr C didnt increase his payments to a level that brought 
him out of persistent debt, they thought Barclays acted fairly when suspending and closing 
the account, even though the balance had been cleared. And they thought Barclays 
explanation of the service Mr C received due to the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic 
was a fair one. So, they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He explained hed been sent a new card in April 2021, after the balance 
had been cleared. So, he didnt think it was clear the account was due to be suspended and 
closed. And he explained he only realised when he came to pay for fuel at a motorway 
services with no other means of payment. So, Mr C wanted to be compensated for this. As 
Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I understand Mr C 
hadnt missed a payment on his account or asked for a payment holiday or repayment plan 
of some kind. So, I can appreciate why Mr C would feel as though he was maintaining the 
account reasonably. And I also recognise Mr C cleared the balance on the account on the 
same day Barclays explained they would suspend the card. Because of this, I can 
understand why Mr C would assume this would prevent that suspension and potential 
closure. So, I can appreciate the upset and anxiety Mr C wouldve been caused when he 
came to use his card to pay for fuel and was unable to do so. And I can understand why Mr 
C would feel as though he should be compensated for the upset and embarrassment this 
caused.
But for me to say Barclays should compensate Mr C, Id first need to be satisfied that they 
had done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that their decision to suspend and 
close the account was unfair, or that they failed to follow the standard persistent debt 
process when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The rules set by the FCA state that persistent debt it when a customer has paid more in 
interest, fees, and charges then they paid towards the capital balance of the account over 
the previous 18 months. And Ive seen Mr Cs statements which show for the period of time 
before Barclays first letter, he was only making his minimum payment or slightly more than 
that amount. So, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong when deciding to follow 
the persistent debt process as this is something they are obligated to do.
I can see Barclays issued letters to Mr C at 18 months, 27 months, 28 months and finally, 36 
months which follows the persistent debt process set out by the FCA. And within these 
letters, Mr C wouldve been made aware of how much he needed to increase his minimum 
payment by in order to remove himself from being classes as in persistent debt. From Mr Cs 
statements, I cant see Mr C increased his payments significantly to a point where his debt 
had significantly reduced to meet these criteria. So, in line with the process set by the FCA, I 
think Barclays acted fairly when proceeding to issue the 36-month letter, which explained 
that his account would be suspended.Im aware Mr C doesnt think the suspension was fair, as he cleared the balance after the 
36-month letter had been issued. While I understand Mr Cs point, I dont think this is the 
case. Barclays have explained they had already taken the decision to suspend the account, 
whether there was a balance. And even though this balance was cleared, the persistent debt 
process is designed to help customers out of debt. In this situation, Mr C had cleared the 
balance and his outstanding debt. So, I wouldnt expect Barclays to rescind the suspension 
and allow Mr C the opportunity to fall back into debt that hed just cleared. So, I dont think I 
can say Barclays acted unfairly.
But I am aware Barclays issued Mr C with a new card, which contradicted Barclays decision 
to suspend the account. So, I can understand why Mr C would assume his account was 
available to use. And I appreciate the inconvenience he wouldve been caused when he 
came to use the account, only to find he was unable to do so at a motorway services where 
he needed to pay for fuel. But I dont think the issuing of this card takes away from the 
correspondence Barclays sent to Mr C, confirming the account would be suspended and 
closed.
I cant see Mr C queried the receipt of the new card with Barclays. And I think Barclays 36-
month letter made it clear that in any eventuality, the card would be suspended. There was 
nothing to suggest that clearing the balance would alter this outcome. So, although I 
appreciate Mr Cs confusion, I dont think this has resulted from anything Barclays has done 
wrong. Because of this, I dont think Barclays need to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint..
Im aware Mr C also raised a complaint about the service he received when he raised his 
concerns. This was done during the COVID-19 pandemic and Barclays have accepted their 
service was impacted by this, with untrained staff manning customer help channels to 
ensure there was availability. While I appreciate the upset, this may have caused Mr C, I 
dont think this upset would caused by an avoidable mistake made my Barclays. So, I dont 
think Barclays needed to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I appreciate this leaves Mr C 
without access to a credit account he feels he maintained fairly, that was provided to him 
when he was in a similar financial position to now. But as Ive explained, Barclays have an 
obligation set out by the FCA to help customers who appear to be in persistent debt. And I 
think theyve done so fairly on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman