DRN-3250154
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Hastings, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Hastings 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr M had a small car. On 2 August 2020, he went online and bought a car insurance policy 
for the year from 29 August 2020. It was a Hastings SmartMiles telematics or black box 
policy. Hastings acted as an intermediary between Mr M and the insurance company.
Mr M had to pay for the installation of the black box in his car.
On about 21 May 2021, Mr M replaced his vehicle and tried to change the vehicle on the 
policy. Hastings said the policy couldnt cover his new vehicle. Mr M cancelled the policy with 
effect from 26 May 2021.
In June 2021, Mr M complained to Hastings that  when hed bought the policy  it hadnt 
told him that the black box was not compatible with all models of vehicles. 
By a final response dated 25 June 2021, Hastings upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It 
apologised for not calling him back and offered £25.00.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in mid-August 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Hastings hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Hastings didnt make him aware of the limited compatibility of the box.
He was under the impression that a new box could have been fitted to any new 
vehicle.
The policy was mis-sold. 
He was forced to cancel the policy as the black box was not compatible with the 
new vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy documents, I see that Mr M was the policyholder and his teenage daughter 
was the main driver. 
The telematic terms included the following:
5. Changing your Car
If you change your Car during your Policy term, a SmartMiles Box must be installed 
in the new Car within 14 days of asking us to change your Policy. This may be a 
different date to when you start driving the new Car. If you dont have a Box installed 
within 14 days, well cancel the Policy. Please see the Cancellations section.
Professional installation
If your new Box needs to be fitted by one of our approved engineers well charge you 
a fee to cover the installation cost. Please see Our fees.
At the time of installation, you must provide the engineer with the V5C logbook for 
your new Car, please see Documents we may ask for. The engineer will take a 
photo of this document for us. If you don't provide your V5C logbook, installation may 
not take place and will need to be rescheduled.
5. When your Policy ends
If your Policy is cancelled or the insured Car is replaced, the SmartMiles Box will stay 
in the Car and well stop collecting data. Any data collected up to that point remains 
our property, subject to the requirements of the Data Protection Act (1998).
If you want the SmartMiles Box to be professionally removed please let us know and 
well arrange this for you. A fee will be charged to cover the de-installation cost. 
Please see Our fees.
You shouldnt attempt to remove the SmartMiles Box yourself as we wont be 
responsible for any damage caused to your Car by you or someone acting on your 
behalf trying to remove the Box.
If you sell your Car, make sure you contact us to deactivate the SmartMiles Box. You 
must also make the new owner aware that a Telematics device is fitted.
Im satisfied that it was clear in the documents Hastings made available to Mr M that he 
couldnt reasonably expect the black box to be moved to the new vehicle even if they were 
compatible. Mr M wouldve needed a new black box for his new car. For that reason, I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Hastings to refund what he had paid for the black box.
I accept that  when he took out the policy - Hastings didnt tell Mr M that the black box 
wasnt compatible with all cars. 
But the box was compatible with the small car that Mr M put on the policy. And Im satisfied 
that he understood the general point that if he changed the car, the new car might not be 
acceptable to the insurer, so he would have to cancel the policy and get a new policy. In the 
event, Mr M used the policy for about nine months before he changed the car. For these 
reasons, I dont find that Hastings had mis-sold the policy. 
If I had thought that Hastings had mis-sold the policy, then I wouldve directed Hastings to 
reimburse the amount of premium Mr M had paid. But that clearly wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable because Mr Ms car had been covered and hed had the benefit of that.
I can understand why Mr M cancelled the policy. But he hadnt completed the policy year. So 
I wouldnt expect Hastings or the insurer to record a years no-claims discount. 
Overall I dont find that Hastings treated Mr M unfairly and I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct Hastings to do any more in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman