DRN-3180901
The complaint
Mr K (through a representative) complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident)
didnt provide an early settlement rebate even though he repaid his loans early.
Following a complaint, Provident accepted that something went wrong and it credited
Mr Ks outstanding loan balance with £50 compensation rather than paying it directly to 
him.
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not intending to uphold Mr 
Ks complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow 
this in italics and in a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr K has had three loans in total, but this complaint only concerns what happened with
repaying the final two loans. A brief overview of the final two loans is included below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly rate
2 £1,000.00 03/06/2019 10/08/2020 78 £27.00
3 £1,730.00 21/01/2020 22/02/2021 104 £39.79
Mr K provided this service with copies of his paying books for each of the above loans.
For loan 2, Mr K was paying £30 per week until 13 July 2020. At which point his payments
increased to £47 per week, until 10 August 2020, when the paying book (provided by Mr K)
showed an outstanding balance of £277, and then this amount was paid in order to close the
account. So according to the paying in book, the loan was repaid 16 weeks early, without an
obvious early settlement rebate.
For loan 3, Mr K repaid this loan early, and received an early settlement figure, meaning he
paid less than the outstanding balance at the time.
Mr Ks representative was unhappy, with the fact that there appeared to be no early
settlement rebate for loan 2, given that the paying in book showed the full balance was paid
and despite repaying the loan around 16 weeks early. There also appeared to be an issue of
how Mr Ks payments were allocated to his loan accounts. A complaint was then made with
Provident.
Provident investigated the complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL) on 2 October
2020. Provident explained, that after seeing the paying in book, it had made several
adjustments to Mr Ks outstanding loan balance. It made the following points;
Loan 2 was closed, on 10 August 2020 but Provident wasnt able to change the closure 
date on its system from 19 August 2020.
Adjustments had been made to loan 3 which total £173.72 which included an early settlement 
figure of £36.37. Provident says this amount is the difference in the Early Settlement Rebate 
had the payment been applied correctly, on the correct date in reference to agreement [loan 
2]. Provident applied the £173.72 due towards the outstanding balance on loan 3.
Provident also made a compensation payment of £50 in recognition of the distress and
inconvenience cause. The £50 was also used to reduce the balance on loan 3. Mr Ks
representative said the early settlement calculation for loan 2 wasnt correct, the refund
shouldve been £226 and Provident shouldnt have used the £50 compensation to lower his
balance on loan 3  it ought to have been paid directly to him.
Mr Ks representative also says, that Provident was benefiting from the extra interest it had
collected. Unhappy with the response, the complaint was referred to this Service. After it was
referred to this Service, we were told that loan 3 had been settled early (around 47 weeks
early) and again, Mr Ks representative said the early settlement figure calculated for this his
loan was incorrect.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt think it ought to have been upheld. She
concluded;
Mr K only had two loans. Loan 1 was cancelled, but it was included in the
adjudicators loan table.
The early settlement figure due for loan 2, wasnt refunded directly to Mr K, instead it
was used to reduce the balance on loan 3.
Provident appear to have accepted this Services findings.
Before the complaint was passed for a final decision, Mr Ks representative made the
following comments;
Mr K had always made regular repayments towards his loans.
Provident had to make adjustments which were that because of the COVID-19 pandemic Mr K 
needed to make payments online rather than having the agent come to collect the payments in 
person.
Mr K and the agent agreed how the payments amounts would be split, but this didnt happen 
and Provident split the payments differently.
Mr K repaid loan two 16 weeks early and hasnt received an early settlement rebate
Mr K accepts that he received an early settlement figure for loan 3 (and this was paid).
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the most recent comments, Mr Ks representative accepts that an early
settlement figure was provided and then Mr K paid this amount in order to close loan 3. So, I
no longer think there is an issue with that loan.
Instead this decision will focus on what happened when loan 2 was repaid, and the
compensation that Provident paid. So, both the account adjustments as well as the £50
payment.
Loan 2The first thing Ive considered are Mr Ks repayments. Both the paying-in book provided by
Mr Ks representative show at the start regular payments were made. Indeed, although there
is a slight discrepancy. As of 6 July 2020, Mr Ks paying-in book showed he owed £465
whereas the statement of account says he owed £495. The difference looks to be due to the
fact that Mr K had been paying £30 a week whereas, from March 2020 when Mr K switched
to paying online Provident was only crediting £28.29 to the account.
From the 13 July 2020 Mr K increased his repayments to £47 per week as can be seen from
the repayment book. However, Provident only increased Mr Ks payments to loan 2 to
£35.16. So, a difference in repayments of £11.84 per week.
This is important because, when the loan was fully repaid on 10 August 2020 Mr Ks paying
in book said he owed £277  which is the amount he paid. Although due to the way the
payments had been apportioned only £128.21 of the £227 was initially credited to loan 2
(according to Providents statement of account).
And because of the way that Provident was splitting the repayments the balance, according
to the statement of account, was £350.01. So, Mr K, according to Provident actually owed
more than he realised. But, Mr K had paid in line with the balance on his paying-in book.
So, I can quite understand why Mr K doesnt feel he has received any early settlement
rebate because according to the paying-in book he had paid all of the capital he borrowed as
well as all of the contractual interest that was due. So, it would seem to him that he didnt
benefit at all from repaying the loan 16 weeks early.
Provident has provided this Service, with evidence to show that it calculated the early
settlement figure using the calculation that is outlined and detailed in the Consumer Credit
Act 2004. This calculation is the one that should be used, and therefore Im satisfied that the
correct process has been followed when working out the rebate.
And I dont think that Provident has helped themselves in this case either. In the FRL,
Provident didnt explain what the early settlement figure was. It said it made some account
adjustments and of the adjusted amount, £36.37 of it was the difference in the early
settlement rebate between what was due and what ought to have been paid had the
payments been correctly proportioned in line with what Mr K was expecting.
Provident has told us the early settlement was £49.79 which was credited to the loan 2
balance when it did the re-calculations. So, it does seem, based on the calculations that an
early settlement rebate was worked out and credited to this loan.
The credit agreement says the following about early settlements figures;
will give you a settlement quote the following week so you know how much you
need to pay in total. The amount you need to settle your account will assume
payments will be made within 28 day after the date of the settlement quote and will
include 13 days interest. This amount payable even when you settle the loan before
the end of the 28 days. This is in accordance with the provisions of the Consumer
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
So even though the a payment was made on 10 August 2020 to settle the account,
Provident was entitled to add an additional 13 days interest. And what is important to note, is
that Providents initial calculation shows that Mr Ks payments were set at the same amount
each week - £27 -and this went towards the balance. The way Provident calculates the early
settlement payment is similar to a mortgage. So while the weekly amount it initially used may
not have been correct, it does demonstrate an important principle.
In the early part of the lending relationship, more of the payments Mr K was making went
towards repaying the interest, and it isnt until towards the end of the loan agreement that the
capital borrowed starts being repaid at a more rapid rate.So while, the loan was settled early, it was only 16 weeks early, and at which point, Mr K had
already repaid the majority of the interest, and therefore he still had capital left to pay. Which is why, I 
dont believe the amount of money Mr Ks representative believes is due to him is
correct, given how late in the term of the loan Mr K was settling the balance.
The other issue here, as Ive mentioned above, is Mr Ks balances didnt match between the
statement of account that Provident had for Mr K. This is likely as a result of any agreement
being made between him and the agent not being communicated to central office.
So when Mr K paid the early settlement figure, the amount he thought he owed Provident and the 
amount Provident said he owed was different  by around £83. So, while Provident has reattributed 
the payments from the third loan account, it look like most of the conclusion and unhappiness in this 
case is because this hasnt been clearly explained.
I know Mr K says he didnt receive the early settlement figure. And I agree that he didnt
receive any money directly from Provident. But that is because, the problem was caused,
due to the way payments were being credited (as explained). But looking at the statement of
account, it does seem that Provident did apply an early settlement repayment based on the
correct account balance.
So, while there has been some misunderstanding as to what has happened, in relation to
the early settlement figure, I dont think Provident has made a mistake in the way it has been
calculated or the way it has been applied.
Compensation
Provident accepted it had caused distress and inconvenience, and ordinarily because of the
reason why such a payment is made, it is normal for this to be paid directly to the consumer.
Although, that may not be appropriate in all circumstances.
And it is clear, that Mr Ks representative isnt happy with this, and she is quite right to point
out that he wanted the money paid to Mr K, and given our approach to payments of distress
and inconvenience there was a reasonable expectation that the funds would be paid directly
to him.
Whereas, what provident had done was pay the £50 towards loan 3, this was done on
5 October 2020. This had the effect of reducing Mr Ks balance on this loan, and therefore
meant when he settled the loan early, it took into account this extra payment. This means, it
is no longer possible, to simply ask Provident to pay Mr K this money as it could have the
effect of reopening the third loan and leaving a balance to be paid. I dont think this would be
fair or the right thing to do in this case.
It is also clear, in my view, that there has been some confusion between Mr K and Provident
as how it allocated payments. While the FRL does answer the complaint, there is clearly
been some miscommunication about exactly what the early settlement rebate was, and how
Provident was taking steps to put things right.
This has clearly caused a great deal of confusion, and while I think the early settlement
figure for loan two has now been calculated correctly, Provident didnt explain this to Mr K,
and its clear the payment of £50 was due to go to Mr K directly. Im satisfied, given the time
that has passed, and what Mr Ks representatives has said is that a degree of distress and
inconvenience has been caused. As a result, Im minded to award a modest sum for this.
Therefore, in order to resolve this complaint, I think Provident should pay Mr K (directly) an
additional compensation payment of £100.
Response to the provisional decision In response to the provisional decision, Mr K provided copies of text messages between 
himself and his Provident agent. He also called into the Financial Ombudsman and I can see 
the adjudicator has made the following points in her call note;
He said the main issue is that the £173.72 which was applied to loan three never 
materialised, only the £50 compensation. 
Mr K says the loan agreements doesnt state interest is paid off first and then the 
capital balance. 
Mr K said he paid the whole amount for loan two and accepted the early settlement 
rebate for loan three. 
Mr K says that when he sent a text message to his agent about the refund of 
£173.72. The agent didnt answer the questions which Mr K says shows that 
Provident didnt do what it said it would. 
Provident responded and let us know it had received the provisional decision and had 
already sent the compensation cheque to Mr K for £100, which was the proposed outcome 
in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Ks comments the Financial Ombudsman approached Provident to ask it 
for some further comments especially around what the paying in book shows. 
Provident responded to the information request and Ive summarised what it told us below;
The paying books are Mr Ks records of the payment but following the pandemic 
payments were made online and split accordingly
The early settlement rebate has been calculated based on the online repayment 
history as this is the record that Provident has of the repayments. 
The payments online are automated, and it has a record of each one made by Mr K. 
Provident also provided contact notes of calls between itself and Mr K following his payment 
to Provident on 10 August 2010. 
These notes dont shed any new light on what happened here. Only I would say that Mr K 
was on top of what shouldve happened following his repayment because he was calling to 
find out why his second loan hadnt been closed following the repayment. He was doing this 
as, based on his repayment book, he had paid enough to repay the total amount borrowed 
as outlined in the credit agreement.  
Provident at this point, also confirmed that it didnt have anything further about the complaint.  
Mr K, in response to the provisional decision refers back to the adjustments of around £173, 
which Provident said would be made in the final response letter  the exact details can be 
found in the provisional decision. 
However, Provident has said the details in the final response letter about the payment of 
£173 may not be entirely correct. Given what I can see in the account movements it looks 
like Provident may have muddled up the loan numbers, so £173 wasnt credited to balance 
of loan three, rather a similar sum was moved from loan three to the balance of loan two and 
this can be seen in the electronic account movements that Provident has provided.  In terms of the credit agreement, the agreement for loan two just says that Mr K has 
borrowed £1,000 and has to make 78 payments of £27 meaning he will repay a total of 
£2,106. 
Ive not seen anywhere in the credit agreement that it explains how those payments were to 
be split between capital and interest. It just says the repayments need to be made and if the 
payments are made, then the loan will be fully repaid. The agreement, also provides, and 
which is quoted in the provisional decision about how Provident will work out the early 
settlement figure, if one is asked for.  
I would point out that the regulations that Provident has referred to in order to work out any 
early settlement rebate is the correct one. So, I think, given what Ive seen that Provident 
has worked out the early settlement figure correctly.  
Ive considered the text messages which Mr K has sent the Financial Ombudsman between 
himself and the Provident agent. But these text messages only show Mr K asking for what 
has happened to the refund he says was due. The agent doesnt confirm whether this is 
correct, instead she is just asks about payments.  I dont think these messages add anything 
further to what happened in August 2020. 
And in my view, the agent not answering this question directly doesnt mean that this is an 
admission of guilt by Provident or evidence that something went wrong. After all, when she 
responded (and this is speculation) she may not have had all the evidence to hand which 
Provident has now provided the Financial Ombudsman. 
So, Ive not put any weight on the way that the agent responded to Mr K in the text 
messages when coming to the outcome of this complaint. 
Ultimately, in this case what looks like to have happened, is that Mr K was making 
repayments and recording them as such in the paying in book he had. However, as the 
payments had to be made online following the pandemic, Providents system didnt split the 
payment in line with how Mr K was recording these in his paying book.
This can be reflected by the paying in book showing on 3 August 2020 Mr K had a balance 
of £277 (which was the amount he recorded as paying on 10 August 2020) whereas the 
online payment record supplied by Provident shows the balance on 3 August 2020 as being 
£385. This difference in balance was caused by the way Provident was splitting his online 
repayment between the two active loan accounts. In effect, Mr K believed he owed Provident 
less than what its online system was showing. 
So, although Mr K was making repayments his balance on loan two was larger than the 
amount he paid to Provident in August 2020, a further complicating factor is that of that 
payment he made, not all of it was applied to loan two, some of the £277 was allocated to 
loan three.
It is also clear that the payment Mr K made on 10 August 2020 wasnt split how he was 
expecting it to be split, which is why he followed up with the phone calls that Ive seen the 
notes from. As he rightly believed hed paid a sufficient amount to close the loan. 
Ive seen the account movements that following the call Mr K made on 11 August 2020 
Provident made a number of account adjustments (and has provided the electronic 
adjustments) which included moving funds from loan three to loan two and then applying an 
early settlement rebate of £49.79 to the account balance of loan two. This is what Id have 
expected to see. And for the reasons Ive explained above the balance of the account was slightly larger than Mr K was expecting at the time due to the way that Provident had been 
splitting his online payments.
I also dont consider it unreasonable for Provident to have used the online payment history 
when working out the early settlement rebate because this is the electronic record of the 
payments Mr K had made. 
Provident has explained the process it undertakes when working out the settlement balance 
and has provided the Financial Ombudsman with the calculations. While we are not 
actuaries the process that Provident has gone through to work this out seems reasonable 
and correct in this case and is in line with what it said it would do in the credit agreement. 
Overall, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in the provisional decision. The early 
settlement rebate was applied to loan two, I accept that it isnt as much as Mr K was 
expecting but a rebate has been applied and Provident has shown this has been calculated 
in line with the credit agreement. This leads me to conclude Provident doesnt have to make 
any further adjustments to the loan two account.  
But for the reasons in the provisional decision I did think Provident needed to pay Mr K 
further compensation due to what happened following the complaint and what it did with the 
£50 compensation that instead of paying it to Mr K it used it to reduce his loan balance. So I 
had recommended a further payment of £100  which needs to be paid directly to Mr K and 
Ive not been provided with any further information that makes me think I should depart from 
this finding. 
It is my understanding Mr K may have already received this money but Ive still outlined 
below what it needs to do in order to put things right in case Mr K hasnt yet had the 
compensation. 
Putting things right
Provident should, pay Mr K directly an additional payment of £100 for the trouble and upset 
that has been caused due to the way that it managed Mr Ks account.
If this payment has already been made than Mr K wont receive any further compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ks 
complaint in part.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman