DRN-2918951
The complaint
Mr H complains that because of branch closures he wasnt able to apply for a new fixed rate 
ISA with TSB Bank plc
  
What happened
Mr H visited his local branch of TSB and was given information about a new fixed rate ISA. 
Mr H already had an ISA with TSB and has explained he wanted to switch to a new product. 
TSB has confirmed Mr H discussed new ISA options in branch and would have needed to 
come back in to sign the relevant paperwork. 
Mr H has explained that when he tried to visit his local branch it was closed due to Covid 
restrictions. The branch was subsequently closed permanently. 
Mr H complained to TSB and explained he doesnt have internet access so couldnt apply 
online. TSB didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and said he could visit a different branch to open 
his ISA.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint and upheld it. They accepted the 
local branch was closed due to Covid restrictions but thought Mr H made a reasonable point 
when he said he wasnt able to visit alternative branches. The investigator recommended 
that TSB pay Mr H the interest he wouldve received if the new fixed rate ISA had been 
opened. 
TSB didnt agree and said its decision to close Mr Hs local branch was taken in line with 
government guidance. TSB didnt agree it had made an error and asked to appeal. As TSB 
asked to appeal, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand government guidance and Covid restrictions led to Mr Hs local branch being 
closed which meant he couldnt visit it to complete his fixed rate ISA application. And the 
branch was ultimately closed permanently as part of a planned process by TSB. Mr H says 
hes been unfairly impacted in this case because he didnt have an option to apply online for 
the product he wouldve taken out in branch. 
I appreciate TSB had genuine reasons to close its branch and I can see it offered some 
customers an alternative application method if they were able to use the internet. But Mr H 
has explained he doesnt have access to the internet or online banking and relies on the 
branch to complete his banking. I note the only other option Mr H was given was to visit a 
different branch. Ive considered whether that was reasonable for Mr Hs circumstances. 
Mr H has explained he wouldve had to use public transport to visit other branches and was 
concerned about the risk. Hes also explained that government guidance at the time said that 
people shouldnt travel outside of their local area. I think those are reasonable points, I 
understand why Mr H didnt travel to another branch at the time. 
Whilst I accept TSB had genuine reasons for closing its branch, I think it couldve done more 
to help Mr H after he explained his situation. Not all customers have access to online 
banking and I think Mr H has been unfairly impacted by the lack of options available to him. 
Based on the information Ive seen, including a branch statement, Im satisfied Mr H 
wouldve proceeded an opened a new two year fixed rate ISA if the branch hadnt closed. As 
a result, I agree with the investigator that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and TSB should 
pay interest to him in line with what he wouldve received from the two year fixed rate ISA. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mr Hs existing ISA so it is administered in line with the two year fixed rate 
ISA he wanted to apply for 
- TSB should recreate the account, backdating interest where appropriate, to ensure 
Mr Hs funds receive the same interest that wouldve been paid if the two year fixed 
rate ISA had been approved 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman