DRN-4002632
The complaint
Mr H complains about the accuracy of Metro Bank PLCs banking app and on-line banking 
and says theyre responsible for his detrimental credit score.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 February 2023, and this is what I 
said: 
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed. 
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 2 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr H complains about the accuracy of Metro Bank PLCs banking app and on-line banking
and says theyre responsible for his detrimental credit score.
What happened
Mr H says he was expecting a refund from Company A for approximately £2189 plus some
additional payments for unknown amounts.
In December 2021, Mr H noticed a payment for £1170.88 from company A went onto his
credit card. So, he thought this was a part payment and called Metro Bank to move £1000 of
this payment to his current account.
When Mr H saw another credit for £1170.88 on his banking app he thought the other part
payment had come through, so he called Metro Bank again to transfer more money out of
his credit card.
However, unbeknown to Mr H Company A had corrected a transaction and processed three
transactions in total  two credits and one debit each for £1170.88.
But it wasnt until January 2021 that Mr H realised this and because hed transferred more
than the amount of the one credit, his account had a debit balance which occurred interest
and impacted his credit score.
Also, Mr H feels there is either a fault or confusion with both his banking app and on-line
banking. In addition to not seeing the above-mentioned debit his banking app is still showing
his account as being in credit for £1170.88  which is the amount of the debit adjustment.
However, Metro Bank are saying this is not the true situation and advised Mr H to delete and
reinstall his app and on-line banking. But, despite doing so, Mr H says this is still displayed.
Furthermore, Mr H thinks this could possibly be his missing credit, so he provided Metro
Bank with information to investigate.
Mr H complained to Metro Bank. Metro Bank couldnt see they made an error as they dont
inform customers of debit adjustments. They did however apologise, refund the interest and
pay £20 compensation for the cash interest charges as their representatives didnt explain
this.
Mr H complained to our service as he feels Metro Bank have treated him unfairly. This is
because Metro Bank havent provided an explanation as to the banking app and on-line
banking anomalies. Also, he feels Metro Bank are responsible for his detrimental credit
score, which may affect his ability to get a mortgage.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and as Mr H remains dissatisfied and his
complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I will explain how I
have come to my decision.
I first looked closely at the reasons Mr Hs account went into a debit balance.
From considering submissions and listening to call recordings Im persuaded that Mr H
thought hed received a full refund in the form of two credits from company A. And he
thought his account would remain in credit by transferring out £1185.94 on 15 December
2021.
I analysed Mr Hs credit card statement and could see that by requesting a transfer of
£1185.95 his account would immediately have a debit balance of -£1170.88. So, I thought
the representative shouldve either informed him, referred or declined the transaction. Had
she informed him, Im satisfied that Mr H wouldnt have gone ahead as he wouldve realised
his balance and that hed only had one credit on 15 December 2021.
I asked Metro Bank if theyd listened to the tape and had any comments but, despite
repeated requests, I havent received a response.
I also asked Metro Bank to further comment on the banking app and on-line discrepancies
reported by Mr H. This is because Mr H says his actions were encouraged by an incorrect
balance and seeing two credits with no debits. In the absence of any response to this
question from Metro Bank, I think it likely that a fault with the banking app was a factor in Mr
Hs balance having a negative balance.
I did consider the investigators comment that Mr H shouldve queried the two credits as they
were the same amount, and the total was greater than the amount he was expecting.
However, Ive considered Mr Hs explanation and Im persuaded that he didnt know the full
amount being credited. Also, from listening to the calls, Im also persuaded that he thought
hed received what he was owed by Company A and they had decided to send it to him in
two separate payments. Furthermore, transferring more money out was clearly going to 
cause him a problem and I wouldve expected the representative to have pointed this out.
So, considering the above and screen shots of the banking app, I think it likely that a faultwith Metro Banks app and on-line system led Mr H to calling Metro Bank to transfer out
more money than was available. And then a subsequent failure to advise him of the status of
his account, led to him going into a debit balance.
I then looked at the evidence Mr H presented about his problems with the banking app and
the displayed credit which Metro Bank say is not the true position.
From analysing Mr Hs statements, I can only see one credit and as Mr H hasnt been able to
get Company A to verify their credits, I think the credit displayed on his app is likely to be
another fault. I asked Metro Bank to comment on this together with the investigation that Mr
H says they committed to. However, with no response, based on the evidence provided by
Mr H, Im satisfied that Mr H reported system issues to Metro Bank. And I cant see any
evidence to show that Metro Bank have either offered him support or resolved the issue.
So, considering all the above, based on the information presented, I dont think Metro Bank
have treated Mr H fairly here.
Im persuaded by Mr Hs submissions that hes been distressed about the impact of an
adverse report to credit reference agencies, and this has been over a significant period of
time. Also, by not providing support to Mr H over the app and on-line system technical issues
Mr H hasnt been able to rely on these important services and get accurate live updates. In
addition, this has caused him to question whether Metro Bank have a credit he is entitled to,
and I cant see that Metro Bank have clarified matters which has caused Mr H further
frustration and distress.
To put things right I require Metro Bank to reverse their report to credit reference agencies.
Also, they should pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed that Im not asking Metro Bank to pay the credit
amount displayed on his banking app, however I haven't been provided with evidence that
this has either been paid by Company A or credited to Mr Hs account.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require Metro Bank PLC to:
 Pay Mr H £250 compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 2 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
Both parties responded before the deadline.
Metro Bank said:
"I can confirm that the amendment with the credit reference agencies has been done. Please 
note this would have had minimal impact on the customer as we did not report that the 
customer missed any payments or was in arrears, simply the amount for December 2021. 
This has been amended but may take 60 days to reflect. We agree that we could have done 
more to support the customer and as such we agree with the amount suggested.
 
Mr H confirmed that I had understood his situation and said:
The final point I would like to make is that to this day the issue with my mobile and online
banking still hasnt been fixed.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to note that Metro Bank agree it needs to take steps to put things right and has 
already completed the Credit Reference Agency amendment.
As Mr H said the technical issues still havent been fixed, I considered everything again and, 
as I factored in the length of time of the distress and inconvenience Mr H experienced here, I 
still think £250 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances.
So, as there are no additional points or information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision which I adopt in full as part of this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint and I require Metro Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr H £250 compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman