DRN-3014952
The complaint
Ms B complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked her account and wont return 
money held in the account to her. She wants the bank to return the money and pay her 
compensation
What happened
 Ms B has a Pockit account. Shes explained that she uses the account to save for holidays 
and essential items. And that she funds the account from an account she holds with another 
bank, which I will refer to as bank D.
In April 2020, Wirecard blocked Ms Bs account while they carried out a review. This meant 
Ms B couldnt access the money in her account. At the time of the block the balance of the 
account was just over £300.
Ms B contacted Wirecard on several occasions to try and find out what was happening with 
her account. Wirecard explained to Ms B that under the terms and conditions of the account 
it was entitled to review a customers account and asked for information.
On 27 May 2020, Wirecard told Ms B that she needed to provide proof of her address and 
identification. Ms B sent provided the information to Wirecard on the same day. 
Unfortunately, Ms B had only sent part of a letter showing her address, so on 3 June 2020, 
Wirecard asked her to send them a copy of the whole document, which Ms B did on 4 June 
2020.
On 23 June 2020, Ms B contacted Wirecard, she explained that she was struggling 
financially, claiming benefits and needed the money in her account to pay bills. Wirecard 
said it couldnt speed up its review process.
On 18 July 2020, Wirecard asked Ms B for information about the source of the funds in her 
account. Ms B explained to Wirecard that the money was made up of her disability benefits. 
And shed been saving for a holiday, but due to the Covid pandemic she now needed access 
to the funds to pay her bills. But Wirecard didnt remove the block on her account or release 
her funds. So, Ms B complained.
 
In response, Wirecard said under the terms of Ms Bs account it was entitled to restrict an 
account in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. Wirecard said it appreciated the 
review had caused Ms B inconvenience, and it would review things urgently. However, on 15 
October 2020, Wirecard told Ms B that her account was still under review.
Unhappy with this response, Ms B brought her complaint to our service. She explained that 
shed sent three payments of £140, £10 and £151 in March and April 2020 to her Pockit 
account from her account with bank D. Shes said that the money originated from her state 
benefits and she hadnt spent any of the money from her Pockit account as at the time she 
was trying to save for a holiday. But her plans changed due to the pandemic. And she 
needed access to the funds in her account to pay bills. Ms B says because of the block she 
had to resort to using food banks and found the whole experience very upsetting and 
stressful.
  
One of our investigators looked into Ms Bs complaint. She asked Wirecard for some more 
information about its review. But Wirecard didnt respond. The investigator upheld Ms Bs 
complaint. She was satisfied Wirecard could review Ms Bs  but she didnt think theyd 
carried out a thorough investigation to satisfy them that Ms B wasnt entitled to the money in 
her account. And hadnt completed its review in a timely manner. So, she asked them to 
return the full balance to Ms B plus 8% simple interest. And pay Ms B £125 compensation 
for the trouble and upset shed been caused. 
Ms B agreed. Wirecard didnt respond. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Wirecard has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review. And ask for information about payments made into an account. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Wirecard was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Ms Bs account in July 2020. Its also entitled to 
review an account under the terms and conditions. So, I cant fairly say Wirecards done 
anything wrong when it decided to review Ms Bs account.
However, while Wirecard are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Wirecard initially blocked Ms Bs account in April 
2020. But I havent seen any evidence to show the actions Wirecard took during the review 
after Ms B provided the information it had requested. I note too that Wirecard didnt ask Ms B 
for any information until 27 May 2020, which was nearly a month after it had restricted 
Ms Bs account. So, Im not satisfied Wirecard completed its review in a timely manner. 
Ms B complied with Wirecards requests promptly  providing the information about her 
address, and identification on the same day or the following day. But Wirecard asked 
Ms B to provide the same information about her address and identification again in an email 
it sent to her on 18 July 2020. I can see that the investigator has asked Wirecard for an 
explanation why it did this  for example was the information incomplete as it was when 
Ms B first sent Wirecard copies of her documents, but it hasnt responded why Ms B had to 
go to the trouble of submitting the same information again. So, in the absence of an 
explanation from Wirecard, I cant say that theres a reasonable explanation for asking Ms B 
to provide the same information twice.  
Wirecard also asked Ms B about the source of the funds in her account and how she used 
her account, in the email it sent Ms B on 18 July 2020.  Under the heading Please answer 
the following questions 
what is the source of the money in your Pockit account? (e.g. wages or benefits)what do you use your Pockit account for?
Again, Ms B responded with the information promptly. Wirecard didnt ask Ms B any further 
questions or to provide any more information. I can see that our investigator asked Ms B to 
provide more information about the source of funds which shed paid into her Wirecard 
account. In response, she gave us screen shots of her account with bank D which showed 
shed received benefit payments into the account in March and April 2020 and transferred 
money directly from these funds into her Wirecard account. So, I think its likely had 
Wirecard asked Ms B for this information she wouldve given this to Wirecard in July 2020. 
And as they didnt ask Ms B for any proof of entitlement, I dont find any plausible 
explanation as to how they satisfied themselves that Ms B wasnt entitled to the funds in her 
account.
Wirecard has told this service that the block to Ms Bs account was applied to meet its 
regulatory requirements in line with the terms and conditions of the account. However, 
Wirecard has failed to provide any information or evidence to support this. Its also not 
provided any information as to why it is still withholding Ms Bs funds, which based on the 
information Ms B has provided originated from her state benefits. So, in this particular case, 
because of the lack of information, I cant be satisfied that Wirecard has treated Ms B fairly. 
It therefore follows that I think Wirecard should refund Ms B the full balance which was left in 
her account when they restricted the account in April 2020.
I also dont think its reasonable that Ms B has been without her money for a long period of 
time. So, like our investigator, I think 8% simple interest should be paid on this amount. 
Having looked at what Ms B has told us about how the blocks affected her, I do think that 
Ms B was caused some distress and inconvenience. Ms B has told us that the money in her 
account came from her benefits, she had no other income. So, I think its fair to say she 
relied on this money. And I can see that she chased Wirecard on several occasions for an 
update.  Ive no doubt all of this had a significant impact on Ms B, causing her concern and 
worry about paying bills. So, I consider £125 compensation to be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Refund Ms B the amount of money in her account - £301.01
Pay Ms B £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor customer 
service, delay in completing its review and withholding her funds
Pay Ms B 8% interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Ms B. They 
should calculate this from the date they restricted Ms Bs account to the date they 
refund Ms B.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Ms B a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Ms B asks for one.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman