DRN-2901784
The complaint
Mr S complains about the decision by Amtrust International Underwriters DAC to 
turn down his building warranty claim.
What happened
Mr S has a building warranty for his home. In 2018, Mr S found that the 
timbers supporting the gutters were rotten. He made a claim under the 
warranty.
Amtrust arranged for its loss adjuster to carry out an inspection. They found that 
the timber was rotting because of constant humidity in the void below the gutter. 
The loss adjuster thought this damage was excluded under the policy, and so 
turned down the claim on behalf of Amtrust.
Mr S arranged for his own surveyor to carry out an inspection. The surveyor 
thought moisture produced in the property passed into the eaves and formed a 
vapour, which had caused the damage.
Mr Ss surveyors report didnt change the claims decision, and so Mr S 
brought a complaint to this service. Meanwhile he arranged the roof repairs 
himself.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 June 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy excludes:
Loss or damage caused by or in consequent upon humidity in a Housing Unit that is 
not a direct result of the ingress of water caused by a defect in the design, 
workmanship, materials and components of the waterproofing elements of the 
Waterproof Envelope of the Housing Unit.
In relying upon the exclusion, the onus falls to Amtrust to show that it applies.
Amtrusts surveyor thought the timber had become rotten due to constant humidity 
in the void below the gutter and the build-up of condensation. They said there was 
no water penetration into the building.
Amtrust spoke with the roofing company that constructed Mr Ss roof. They said We 
believe that this is a condensation issue caused buy [sic] the top of the wall not being 
insulated correctly which is causing heat loss through the top of the wall and through 
the soffits and fascia therefore causing condensation.
Mr Ss surveyor said that moisture is produced in all dwellings, and the moisture laden 
air will pass through the plasterboard ceiling into the roof void. The air within the roof 
void will pass out to the boxed eaves where temperatures are lower, therefore moisture 
in the air will condense onto the cold surfaces, principally the underside of the roof 
gutter and the vertical fascia. During the summer, the boxed eaves will heat up and the 
moisture within the void will then form a vapour which cannot escape, effectively 
steaming the timber within the space, thereby causing its rapid breakdown of the 
material and loss of structural integrity. The surveyor thought it was good practice for a 
vapour control layer to be incorporated immediately above the plasterboard to prevent 
passage of air born moisture into the roof void.
Mr Ss surveyor disagrees with Amtrust that the claim falls under the exclusion. He 
says a material and directly resultant element of the damage which is the subject of 
this claim is in fact a direct result of the ingress of water vapour by virtue of the use of 
an inappropriate construction specification and or failure in construction quality.
I think Mr Ss surveyors report makes it clear that the damage to the timbers has 
been caused as a result of water vapour in the air (humidity). That means the claim 
falls under the exclusion, unless the humidity were the result of an ingress of water 
caused by a defect in the design etc of the waterproofing elements of the waterproof 
envelope.
Waterproof envelope is defined in the policy as:
Shall mean the ground floors, external walls, roofs, skylights, windows, doors
I think its reasonable to say that there was a defect in the design, workmanship, 
materials and components of the external walls/roof - i.e. the waterproof envelope, due 
to there being inappropriate insulation. However, the important point is that the 
humidity isnt a direct result of water entering the property (water ingress). Instead, the 
humidity that has built up in the eaves is the result of normal moisture produced within 
the property itself.
Im therefore satisfied that the exclusion would apply here.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr S, but I think it was reasonable for Amtrust 
to turn down his claim.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr S responded to say he disagreed with my provisional findings. Ive summarised 
his main points to be:
Amtrusts loss adjuster thought thered been a condensation issue caused by 
the top of the wall not being insulated. Mr S agrees with this, and says the 
exclusion doesnt mention condensation. 
Mr S doesnt agree that there was no water ingress. He says when a repair 
was undertaken, the contractor identified that the fascias were incorrectly 
fitted and the waterproof membrane didnt fully extend over the ply. And that 
this allowed water to penetrate the fascia, which saturated the ply and 
exacerbated the condensation issues. 
Amtrust didnt have any further comments to make.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the same opinion expressed in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. 
It seems Mr S doesnt agree that the damage was caused by humidity. Ive looked at the 
evidence again, and Im satisfied that his surveyors explanation of the issue describes 
humidity (essentially, water vapour in the air), and it was this which had caused the problem.
Mr S says there was water ingress, and that this was discovered by the contractor when the 
repair was undertaken. Hes provided some photos with comments on which say the fascias 
hadnt been fit properly, and that this allowed water ingress.
I dont know who made the comments on the photos  it isnt clear if these were made by Mr 
S or his contractor. However, even if I were to accept that the fascias werent fitted properly, 
I dont think this shows that water was entering the property and causing the damage. Given 
that Mr Ss surveyor is a specialist, I think its reasonable to rely on his conclusions. He 
thought the damage was caused by water vapour. 
I therefore remain satisfied that it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the exclusion to turn 
down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman