DRN-1719856
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K took out a packaged bank account with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in November 2002 and they say it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a fee free account with NatWest in January 2002.
They then upgraded to an Advantage Gold account (AGA) with a monthly fee in November 
2002. 
Mr and Mrs K say they were told they had to take out the AGA to get a loan, so the AGA was 
mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs K also say that NatWest led them to believe they could not downgrade the 
account when doing so would have helped their financial position.
Nat West says the AGA wasnt mis-sold and they did provide full and correct information to 
Mr and Mrs K.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. But Mr and Mrs K disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs K knew they had a choice whether to take out 
the AGA in November 2002, and whether they chose to do so. I think they did, and Ill 
explain why.
NatWest has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs K had used a fee free bank account before 
they took out their AGA. So, at the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that they 
were aware that there were a range of fee free bank accounts available from both NatWest 
and other banks and financial institutions.
Mr and Mrs K say they were told they had to take out the AGA to get a loan and this was the 
only reason why they did so. But after taking the AGA out they didnt take out a loan for over 
ten months, so I think its unlikely this was the most important thing to them at the time. 
So, in my view Mr and Mrs K knew they had a choice whether to pay a fee for the AGA or 
not and they chose to take it out. 
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mr and Mrs K personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs K say that NatWest 
did advise them to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Mrs Ks needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show me 
clearly that NatWest did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that 
in providing information to Mr and Mrs K and explaining the benefits of the AGA, NatWest may 
have said or implied that it was a good idea to take out the AGA. But this isnt the same as 
giving a personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of NatWests sales 
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that NatWest sold the AGA to Mr and Mrs 
K on an information only basis. 
This means NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA was suitable for Mr and Mrs K, but it 
did have to provide Mr and Mrs K with good enough information about the AGA so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The AGA benefits in November 2002 included complimentary travel insurance (if travel was 
booked with a Gold card), extended warranty cover, purchase protection; better interest 
rates for overdrafts, loans, and mortgages, discounts on home insurance and a range of 
other offers. The initial cost was £6 per month.
I think its likely NatWest wouldve described the AGA to Mr and Mrs K at some length as it 
was trying to sell the account to them. I think the AGA was of interest to them as they 
subsequently took out a loan, made a successful claim on the travel insurance and made a 
substantial saving on their overdraft. And there was nothing in their personal circumstances 
that would have stopped them using the AGAs benefits; it was for them to decide what they 
wanted to use.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs K knew they had a choice about taking out the AGA in November 
2002 and they chose to take it out. And I dont think there was anything NatWest didnt tell 
them that would have changed their mind and put them off taking out the AGA.
For completeness, I note that Mr and Mrs Ks account was migrated to a Select Platinum 
account in July 2015 as NatWest changed its product offering. Under the terms and conditions 
of the account Nat West was entitled to do this and it has provided evidence that it 
communicated at the time and multiple times in the years that followed about the change and 
the new benefits. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K were aware of this 
change and NatWest did nothing wrong in this matter.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs K have complained that NatWest led them to believe they couldnt 
downgrade their account to a fee free one when doing so would have helped their financial 
position.
Ive considered this carefully. 
The initial information Mr and Mrs K would have received explained that they would need to 
repay any monies owed if they wished to close the account. But it does not say that they would 
have to do so if they wished to downgrade the account to a fee free one. As NatWest explained to Mr and Mrs K in its final response to them, it has records of its 
contacts and discussions with Mr and Mrs K that show there were multiple discussions with 
them about their financial situation. These resulted in payment plans being provided. 
NatWest also has a clear record of it suggesting the AGA be changed to a fee free account in 
2013, but Mr and Mrs K declined the suggestion. And NatWest has no record of Mr and Mrs K 
asking it to downgrade their account at any other time.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs K, Im unable to say that its 
more likely than not that NatWest led them to believe they couldnt downgrade their account 
to a fee free one, as I would have to if I were to uphold their complaint on this point. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman