DRN-2509284
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the fees he is being charged by Hartley Pensions Limited 
(Hartley) for administering his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Background
In 2018 Hartley took over the management of Mr Cs SIPP from a previous pension provider 
that went into administration.
The businesses involved in the set up and operation of Mr Cs SIPP are set out below:
Greyfriars Asset Management Ltd (Greyfriars)
Greyfriars was a regulated SIPP operator that provided Mr Cs SIPP until 2018 when it 
entered into administration.
Hartley Pensions Limited (Hartley)
Hartley is a regulated SIPP operator which acquired Mr Cs SIPP in October 2018 by 
novation when his previous provider, Greyfriars, went into administration.
Hartley SAS Limited (Hartley SAS)
Hartley SAS is the pension scheme administrator.  It conducts the day to day administration 
for Hartley and collects the fees from Mr Cs account.
Whats happened
Mr C said Hartley has collected fees for services that it hasnt provided, and it hasnt given 
him the level of customer service that hes entitled to expect.
Complaints were submitted to Hartley on several occasions, but in summary he said:
A fee note in the sum of £1079.42 was raised on 28 December 2018 and that amount 
was collected from his SIPP in January 2019. An invoice for the fee was provided in 
May 2019 but its unclear what the fee represented.
Conflicting information was given about whether fees are due in arrears of in 
advance.
Fees are being charged in excess of what was agreed with Greyfriars.
Greyfriars were committed to providing half-yearly reports and valuations, but Hartley 
hasnt been doing this on time.
Hartley responded with a final response in which it said:
The invoice of £1,079.42 related to the period between June  December 2017 and 
was collected late due to Greyfriars administration.
There were unpaid fees from December 2017  June 2019, some of which it agreed 
to waive and some which would be invoiced.
It isnt responsible for any liabilities prior to the acquisition from Greyfriars.
Mr C remained unhappy with Hartleys response and so referred the complaint to this 
Service for review.
One of our investigators looked into this and recommended Mr Cs complaint be upheld.  
She set out the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint and the relevant considerations to both 
parties and concluded that it was unfair for Hartley to have charged the fees it was.  She 
suggested that Hartley refund the fees collected and pay £200 compensation for the trouble 
and upset hed experienced for the poor service and uncertainty. Given that Mr C was 
unable to close the SIPP and it held so little financial value, the investigator also 
recommended a nominal fee of just £5 per annum moving forward.
In January 2021 Hartley confirmed that it accepted the investigators assessment and would 
arrange to:
Refund £1079.42 back to Mr Cs SIPP account.
Pay £200 compensation for trouble and upset directly to Mr C.
Charge a reduced annual fee of £5 for the remaining illiquid assets.
Mr C also agreed to this recommendation to put things right.  However, in December 2021 
Hartley confirmed the refund had not been processed and assured it would be done as a 
matter of urgency.
In January 2022 Mr C contacted the investigator to confirm that hed received the £200 
trouble and upset payment, but unhappy the fees still hadnt been resolved.  In fact, not only 
had the £1,079.42 not been refunded to his SIPP, a further payment for fees of £1382.40 
had been collected from his SIPP in December 2021.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that I understand Hartley is not the business that was responsible for 
advising on or accepting Mr Cs SIPP and investments in the first place.  It cannot be held 
responsible for any actions or fees that Mr C was charged before it took over administration 
of the SIPP in October 2018.
So, I have specifically reviewed Hartleys actions since that time  including the fees 
collected which it says relate to periods when the SIPP was administered by Greyfriars.
In reviewing the complaint, I have looked at everything afresh, and taken account of the fact 
that both Mr C and Hartley have already agreed to a way of resolving the complaint  albeit 
also acknowledging Hartley that hasnt implemented the agreed terms.
Relevant considerationsWhen considering whats fair and reasonable in this complaint, I consider the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Businesses to be of particular relevance.
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G).  In addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The 
Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ousely J 
said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated them.  They are the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules (para 77).
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added.  The Principles always have to be complied with.  The specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirements they cover.  The general notion that 
the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate.  It cannot 
be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules (para 162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance:
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
In September 2009 the FSA published a thematic review report on SIPPs which stated:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers.  COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients
The context that these comments were made are in relation to the quality of the business 
that a SIPP operator accepts.  As Ive already explained, I understand that in this complaint 
Hartley is not responsible for the acceptance of Mr Cs business, but its clear from the FSAs 
comments that SIPP operators were obliged to ensure fair treatment of their customers.
So, Ive carefully considered Hartley obligation to treat its customers (and specifically Mr C) 
fairly when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Customer Service
Hartley accepted it had fallen short of the levels of service Mr C was entitled to expect.  It 
agreed with the investigators recommendation and Mr C confirmed he received a payment of 
£200 to reflect the trouble and upset hed experienced from the uncertainty and confusion in 
relation to the fees.
Ive considered whether any further compensation should be paid given that the uncertainty 
has continued, and Hartley never actioned the agreed resolution.  But overall, Im persuaded the £200 is a fair sum and no further payment is required in this regard.  But the key issue to 
resolve is the outstanding position with the fees.
SIPP fees
In January 2021 Hartley had agreed to refund the fees of £1,079.42 collected for the period 
June  December 2017.  It also agreed to charge a nominal fee of £5 moving forwards  to 
reflect the value in the SIPP was only around £2,000 and it held an illiquid asset valued at 
just £1 (ABC Bond).
Im satisfied this agreement was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the 
fact Mr C cannot close the SIPP whilst it holds the illiquid investment.
However, as explained above, the refund of £1,079.42 was never processed into Mr Cs 
SIPP account. And rather than charge £5 for the next annual fee, it collected £1,382.40.  I 
consider this to have been unfair and unreasonable given what was already agreed with Mr 
C.  So, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and require Hartley to take action to put things right.
Putting things right
My understanding is that Hartley has already paid the £200 trouble and upset compensation 
to Mr C directly and so nothing further is required in that regard.
But to put things right, Hartley should do the following:
Refund the £1,079.42 fees to Mr Cs SIPP account as previously agreed.
Refund the difference between any fees collected since January 2021 to date and 
the £5 annual fee that was agreed (and return that difference to Mr Cs SIPP 
account).
Ensure that whilst the SIPP is only used to hold the illiquid investment and cannot be 
closed, only the agreed annual fee of £5 is charged and collected from Mr Cs SIPP.
These steps are in line with what both parties have previously agreed to and so I consider 
them a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Hartley Pensions Limited, and I 
direct it to put things right by following the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman