DRN-3119924
The complaint
Mr B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (trading as Pet Plan) unfairly decided not to pay 
out the full cost of his pet insurance claim.
What happened
Last year, Mr Bs dog unfortunately became unwell and required three different vet visits as 
well as a range of tests and treatments. Allianz received a claim from each of the vets and, 
although it paid out the claim, it decided not to cover the full costs of the treatment. After 
Mr B queried this with the insurer, Allianz reviewed the claim and decided to split the dogs 
symptoms into two conditions. Although this resulted in the insurer paying additional costs 
towards one half of the claim, there remained a significant shortfall because the costs 
werent covered in full.
Mr B complained and Allianz explained that the policy had a maximum claim amount for 
each illness and, because the limit had been reached, it couldnt pay any more towards the 
claim. Mr B didnt agree  in his view, he attended three different vets for different reasons 
and he says his dogs illness wasnt initially diagnosed. So he believes the policy limit hasnt 
been reached.
After Mr B asked this service to review his complaint, one of our investigators decided the 
insurer had acted fairly. The investigator referred to the limit set out in Mr Bs policy and 
explained that this limit had been reached following the multiple vet visits. The investigator 
was satisfied with Allianzs reasons for treating the different vet visits as relating to one 
illness overall. 
Mr B didnt agree and reiterates that the different vet visits were for different symptoms, so 
the limit should apply separately to each individual visit. Because he didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also wont be asking Allianz to review its decision regarding the claim. I 
know Mr B will be disappointed to hear this given the costs hes had to pay himself, so Ill 
explain why.
The terms of the policy explain that a monetary limit applies to claims for each injury or 
illness. And Mr Bs policy certificate refers to the limit being £3,000. In this instance, Allianz 
has decided that each of the vet visits related to a condition known as pyothorax and, by 
the third round of treatment, Mr Bs vet costs had far exceeded the £3,000 limit. Because the 
terms set this out clearly and because I dont find this term to be unusual, I think Allianz 
acted fairly when it applied the limit set out in its terms.
Mr B feels each vet visit was for different symptoms and says these should be treated as 
separate illnesses. Allianz says its own internal expert reviewed the claim and is satisfied 
that the different visits were for the same illness.
Ive reviewed the insurers notes and the claims information it received. Based on the notes 
regarding the dogs symptoms, I dont think it was unreasonable that the insurer concluded 
that the multiple vet visits were related to the same condition. Moreover, Ive seen a request 
sent by one of the vets to Allianz in October 2020  in it, the vet requests that the claim be 
split so that the treatment received for diarrhoea is separated from pyothorax. Other than the 
diarrhoea, theres no indication that Mr Bs dog was experiencing symptoms not related to 
pyothorax across the multiple vet visits. If this was the case, then its likely that the vet 
wouldve also made it clear that the claim needed further separating for the different 
illnesses. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied that Allianz has fairly decided that Mr Bs dog had received 
treatment for the same illness and therefore the policy limit has been applied fairly. So I 
wont be asking Allianz to review it decision regarding this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman