DRN-3183433
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy that it wouldnt refund his premium under his motor insurance policy after hed 
sold his car.
What happened
Mr M sold his car in December 2019 but forgot to tell his insurer about this which meant his 
policy renewed automatically in July 2020. Mr M didnt realise he had paid for a premium for 
a policy that he didnt need until he got renewal documentation around July 2021.
When he explained things to LV it refunded his premium from July 2020 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But Mr M wanted his premium returned from around the time he sold the car 
(December 2019) as he didnt need insurance. And as LV wouldnt do this he complained to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and upheld his complaint. She asked LV to 
clarify if Mr Ms old car was insured elsewhere from around the time he sold it and LV 
confirmed it was. And as LV wasnt responsible for the insurance from that point in time she 
asked it to refund all of Mr Ms premium from around the time he sold his car. 
LV agreed with our investigators position and that this was the fair thing to do in the 
particular circumstances of this case but went on to ask for a final decision. So, the matter 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As LV agrees with the investigators position and all the facts are well known to both sides I 
dont propose to rehearse the arguments or position again here. Indeed, as LV agree with 
our investigator Im surprised the matter has been passed to me to decide.
It is unfortunate that Mr M forgot to tell LV about the sale of his car. And if the car wasnt 
insured by someone else it was possible that LV would be held responsible for any accident 
the car was involved in. But the car was insured elsewhere, as LV has confirmed, so it 
wasnt responsible for the insurance of Mr Ms old car. And so it wouldnt be fair for it to 
retain the premiums when it wasnt on risk as the other insurer was. 
However, as Mr M didnt tell LV that he had sold his car in December 2019 and the car was 
only placed on cover with another insurer on 8 January 2020 it seems only fair that any 
refund should run from this date. I say this as if anything happened before the new owner 
placed the car on cover then LV may have been responsible.
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for LV to refund Mr Ms premium from 8 January 2020 until 14 July 2020. It should 
add 8% simple interest to the outstanding amount from the date Mr M made it aware that he 
had sold his car until the date of settlement. 
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr Ms premium from 8 January 2020 until 14 
July 2020. And it should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr M told them that he had 
sold his car until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman