DRN-3489769
The complaint
Mr O complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr O says that in July 2020 he responded to an advert placed by a company that offered a 
trading platform in cryptocurrency - Ill refer to the company as H. Mr O was told to register 
with H, and that once he had made a deposit we could start using their platform to trade.    
Mr O says an account manager from H contacted him to discuss how they traded and the 
platform they used. He was told H was unique and would offer him lots of support including 
credit to trade with on their platform, as well as insurance whereby in the event of 
catastrophic trading conditions clients are not wiped out.
Mr O says he told the contact at H that he was experienced at using trading platforms, 
however he was cautious so had only been taking small positions in the market. He said his 
main concern was losing all his money. Mr O says he didnt do any real checks on H, he just 
trusted what they said.
Mr O started trading and says he was constantly encouraged to take larger trading positions. 
When he told his contact at H that he didnt want to, he says they took over his account, 
deciding what trades and position sizes to take on his behalf.  Mr O followed the progress of 
his account on the platform, and said his balance was growing fast with the trades doing 
well. However, there were two or three occasions that lead to altercations between him and 
the contact at H.
Mr O made a few attempts to withdraw money from his trading account but was given 
excuses as to why he couldnt. His first attempt to withdraw was after hed funded his 
account by approximately £20,000 and the balance was showing as $200,000USD. Mr O 
was told that hed used Hs credit line to trade and couldnt withdraw without paying that 
back first. He was also told that if he didnt pay up, he would risk being suspended from 
trading and losing all the money hed paid in.
At another point, Mr O says his account was at around $500,000USD. He requested to 
withdraw $100,000USD and was told hed have his money in five working days. But, before 
the withdrawal was processed, the contact at H forced him to trade which wiped out the 
balance of his account. And instead of withdrawing money, he was forced to deposit money 
to his account. 
Mr O says that when his account balance exceeded $1mUSD he tried to take out half of the 
balance. But he was told he had to pay £29,000 to cover the cost of the credit line hed used. 
He suggested they take the costs out of his withdrawal payment but was told it had to be 
paid up front.
In October 2020, when Mr O attempted to withdraw funds again, he was told that he now 
had to pay $170,000USD. He asked what this was for and was told UK HMRC. Mr O says at 
this point he realised it was a scam.
The payments Mr O made to the scammers are below. The transactions in bold were made 
from his Revolut account. These payments were made to 3 different payees as identified 
below.
Date Place/location Type of transaction Amount
17.7.2020 Payment to B  not from his Revolut account £5,000
20.7.2020 Payment to B  not from his Revolut account £6,500
27.7.2020 Payment to B (payment 1) £2,000
10.8.2020 Payment to D (payment 2) £5,000
14.8.2020 Payment to D (payment 3) £6,000
14.8.2020 Payment to D (payment 4) £4,000
19.8.2020 Payment to D (payment 5) £5,720
  1.9.2020 Payment to B (payment 6) £5,000
15.10.2020 Payment to E (payment 7)
Total lost to scammers from Revolut account£23,121.33
£50,841.33
Mr O contacted Revolut in November 2020 and reported the scam. Revolut considered      
Mr Os fraud claim but declined to refund him, saying they were required to execute his 
payment instructions. However, they told Mr O they would contact the beneficiary banks and 
attempt to recover his funds. Ultimately, no funds were recovered from the beneficiary 
banks.
Mr O wasnt happy with Revoluts response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
Prior to our investigator issuing their view, Revolut made an offer to refund 100% of 
payments 1 and 6. Saying the refund offered was due to those transactions being out of 
character, but they declined to offer a refund on any of the other payments. Mr O rejected 
Revoluts offer.
An investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and upheld it recommending that Revolut 
refund 50% of all the payments Mr O made. The investigator highlighted that Revolut had 
said it shouldve done more when Mr O made the first payment, and that if Revolut had 
contacted Mr O it was mostly the scam wouldve been uncovered and the subsequent 
payments couldve been prevented. However, the investigator felt Mr O should share 
responsibility with Revolut as the return he was promised was too good to be true and he 
hadnt made any checks to ensure the investment was genuine  therefore he would be 
responsible for the remaining 50%.
Mr O accepted the investigators recommendation. Revolut disagreed saying that most of the 
payments were made to accounts held in Mr Os name at other institutions, therefore the 
loss didnt happen at his Revolut account. On that basis, they believe Mr O should raise 
complaints with the other institutions to try and recover his funds. Also, Revolut feel Mr Os 
liability should be higher than 50% of the payments.
As Revolut disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Revolut is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking intowhat is fair and reasonable in this case. But Revolut also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Its not disputed that Mr O made and authorised these payments, although I accept that this 
was as the result of a scam. 
Should Revolut have done more to prevent the payments? 
Revolut has told us they had limited information available on Mr Os account to form a 
definitive view of Mr Os transaction patterns and spending habits. However, they offered a 
refund on the first and sixth payments due to the transactions being out of character.
The relevant law and regulations, plus good industry practice and Revoluts own terms and 
conditions, suggest Revolut has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams. Where Revolut identifies transactions as being unusual or out of character, 
Id expect them to take steps to ensure the consumer isnt at risk of fraud or potentially the 
victim of a scam. The first payment Mr O made was to a cryptocurrency exchange in July 
2020. By March 2020 cryptocurrency scams were common and I think Revolut shouldve 
been alive to these types of scam. 
I think that any conversation with Mr O whether it be a phone call or an online chat, wouldve 
identified that he was the victim of a scam and that Revolut couldve and shouldve 
prevented him from making any further payments. I say this because the base information 
Mr O wouldve given them had all the tell-tale signs of a cryptocurrency scam. Mr O was 
promised a return that was too good to be true, H offered him a credit line with which to 
place trades and also told him that he would be insured against losing all his money. 
Also, I think basic questions about the payment he was making shouldve asked what 
checks he had done  and Mr O wouldve told them honesty that he hadnt done any. A 
basic search online wouldve let Mr O know that H was a scam and not a genuine trading 
platform. There were several scam warnings on a popular review website as well as a 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning about H not being authorised. 
While Revolut has only said that the first and sixth payment were out of character, interaction 
with Mr O at the point he made his first payment wouldve prevented him from making the 
subsequent payments. And, I dont agree with Revoluts position that theyre not liable 
because the funds went to accounts in Mr Os name with other institutions. Intervention by 
Revolut at the time of the first payment being made wouldve prevented the loss from 
happening.
But Ive also considered whether Mr O couldve done anything to mitigate his loss or should 
bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence.
Could Mr O have done more to mitigate his losses? 
Mr O has told us that he didnt do any real checks on H before making his first payment to 
them. And, as explained above, a basic online search wouldve showed various concerning 
links including an FCA warning and scam reports on a popular review website. I think its 
reasonable to expect Mr O to have done some checks to make sure that he was interacting 
with a genuine firm, especially as the return he was being offered was too good to be true. 
Also, I think its unlikely that any genuine trading platform would insure a trader whereby they 
wouldnt lose their funds. Trading and cryptocurrency investment are inherently risky and 
returns arent guaranteed  so this offer shouldve concerned Mr O and led him to do 
checks.On this basis, I think its reasonable for Mr O to share liability with Revolut on a 50/50 basis.
Putting things right
To put things right Revolut Ltd should:
Refund Mr O 50% of all the payments he made.
Revolut can deduct the additional 50% they refunded on payments 1 and 6 (which is 
£3,500) if they have already paid this to Mr O.
Pay 8% simple interest on the total refunded, from the date of each of the payments 
to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman