DRN-1989596
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her car insurance 
claim poorly after she was involved in an accident. She says she was caused stress and 
worry due to not being able to get to work, and shes unhappy with the amount of 
compensation paid.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
- Advantage has provided a report which shows the repairs would have cost more than 
the cars pre-accident valuation, i.e. it was a total loss. Whilst Mrs O says that she 
was able to repair the car for less than £250, I understand from her comments she 
only replaced the headlight. Advantages obligation was to repair all the accident 
related damage, not simply the damage that would see the car back on the road. 
Furthermore, Advantage asked Mrs O for evidence that the full repairs could be 
completed for less than the pre-accident valuation, but this wasnt forthcoming. 
Therefore, based on the information we have been shown, Im not persuaded 
Advantage unfairly considered the car to be a total loss.
- The policy terms also explain that a policyholder wont be eligible for a courtesy car if 
their car is considered a total loss; and a courtesy car will only be available to them 
whilst their car is being repaired by Advantages nominated repairer. So, I cant 
reasonably decide Advantage unfairly requested the courtesy car back after it 
decided Mrs Os car was a total loss and it wouldnt be completing a repair.
- Advantage has accepted there were four days of delay before the car was deemed a 
total loss. It also accepts there were some instances where the claim handler wasnt 
available to speak to Mrs O which would have caused frustration. Overall, I consider 
£85 compensation fairly acknowledges these issues, in respect of the impact they 
can reasonably be said to have had on Mrs O. Im not persuaded I would have 
awarded significantly more if Advantage hadnt already paid this amount.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman