DRN-3946920
The complaint
Mr B complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited
mishandled his claim on an agricultural vehicle insurance policy.
Where I refer to NFUM, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include
employees and others insofar as I hold NFUM responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr B is an agricultural engineer. From about 2013, he had one or more tractors insured on
an agricultural vehicle policy with NFUM. The policy was annual, renewed each January.
In about April 2020, Mr B acquired a tractor through an agreement with a finance company.
He added the tractor to the policy. The policy schedule listed it with a value of £48,000.00.
Unfortunately, in late September 2021, that tractor and a trailer were damaged in a collision
and fire. Mr B made a claim to NFUM. NFUM said the tractor was a total loss, but the
damaged trailer was repairable.
For the tractor, in early October 2021, NFUM paid about £33,000.00 to the finance company
and about £15,000.00 to Mr B, a total of about £48,000. He complained to NFUM that it
shouldve paid the market value of about £60,000.00. By a summary response dated late
October 2021, NFUM told Mr B of his right to refer his complaint to us.
In March 2022, Mr B also complained about the repair of the trailer. By a final response
dated mid-April 2022, NFUM partly upheld that complaint but didnt offer compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in mid-April 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. In relation to the
trailer, she thought that, as Mr B had used a non-approved repairer, NFUM couldnt be held
responsible for the delays and issues surrounding the repairs.
In relation to the tractor, the investigator thought it wasnt fair and reasonable for NFUM to
rely on the policy term that NFUM would pay the sum stated in the schedule or the market
value whichever is less. She didnt think it was made clear to Mr B that he would have to
update the value.
The investigator recommended that NFUM should pay Mr B the market value for the tractor,
deducting any premium they wouldve charged if the policy had the correct market value,
and adding 8% simple interest.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B   
and to NFUM on 20 January 2023. I summarise my findings:
As regards the trailer, I agreed with the investigators opinion and Mr B had accepted 
it. So I didnt need to say any more about that.
NFUM believes that, when he acquired the 67 tractor in April 2020  Mr B paid a 
10% deposit and the VAT but financed the balance of about £48,000.00. From that, 
NFUM estimates that the total price had been about £53,000.00. NFUMs belief is 
based on its note of a call from Mr Bs representative on 7 October 2021, quoting her 
as saying that. But I didnt consider that much turns on the price paid or the value of 
the 67 tractor in April 2020, because Mr B renewed the policy from mid-January 
2021.
The policy terms and the IPID made it clear that the maximum NFUM would pay 
would be the lower of the market value or the sum stated in the policy schedule. So I 
was satisfied that - in the context of a long-standing agricultural vehicle policy for an 
agricultural engineer  NFUM had done enough to explain the importance and 
ramifications of declaring a value.
The combination of the change Mr B made in March 2015, the slight change he 
made in mid-January 2020 and the significant reduction he made in mid-January 
2021 show that he knew that the sums stated in the policy schedule would limit any 
claim, as well as believing that the sums stated would affect his premium.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from NFUM, I didnt intend to direct The 
National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
Mr B disagreed with the provisional decision. His representative says, in summary, that:
The ombudsman is supposed to be there to protect the consumer.
Regarding loss of use/earnings from the trailer, Mr B said he was disappointed with 
the investigators opinion. He accepted it providing that NFUM accepted the 
recommendations, which it didnt. So we should look into his complaint regarding the 
trailer repairs.
We should investigate further all of the changes that Mr B supposedly made. For 
example Mr B does not believe that he would have made an increase in January 
2020 of only £250.00 in the sum insured. 
The value in April 2020 would be of no significant relevance- the market value is of 
more relevance at the time of the accident in September 2021. This was due to the 
Covid pandemic, the halt and delays of production due to, and the subsequent 
increases in second-hand values of machinery and equipment once the world was 
starting up again- given that we faced further lockdowns right up until May 2021 
Market Value would be affected and continue to be affected up to and after these 
dates, until production resumed, and backlogs were satisfied.
NFUM sent 20- page renewal invites supposedly 'non advised' in the post. They 
included a small line about the sum stated in the schedule. Despite having numerous 
telephone conversations, NFUM never reminded or made clear in spoken word the 
importance of the sum stated in the schedule. Given times of extreme change such 
as during the pandemic, it is not acceptable to expect customers to call and update 
the market value every time they believe the value of their tractor may have increased.
There certainly seems to be a disregard of a standard consumers understanding of 
historic policy wording as well as a bias in the NFUMs favour. 
The call on 7 October 2021 was with her as Mr Bs representative. She has no 
relation to the business. In discussion with the advisor (who is a personal friend) the 
discussion was along the lines of 'I'm not even sure if the market value includes the 
finance interest'. If the call recordings are available these would reflect accordingly. 
Including this in the final decision seems biased.
Mr B is now insured by a competitor of NFUM. The competitor has the same policy 
wording/IPID. However there is a clear statement, above the sums insured on the 
policy schedule, stating that they would pay the sum stated in the schedule or the 
market value whichever is less. This makes it clear to the customer.
The investigators recommendation would have been a fair outcome. It reflects how 
Mr B would of course have paid the additional premium, had he fully understood that 
the maximum pay- out was as noted, or indeed that he was expected to call and 
increase the sums insured whenever the market reflects. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service
Our role is to decide a consumers complaint against a regulated financial firm. We are 
impartial between the consumer and the firm. We reach our decision based on evidence.
The trailer
I consider that Mr B rather than NFUM chose the repairer of the trailer. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to hold NFUM responsible for any issues with the quality of the repair or the 
time it took. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct NFUM to pay Mr B compensation for 
loss of use of the trailer or loss of income from hiring it out.
NFUMs final response in April 2022 said that it partly upheld his complaint about the trailer. I 
see that it upheld two points. These were that it shouldve liaised more with the repairer to 
provide more frequent updates, and that it shouldve checked with the repairer before saying 
it was closing the claim. 
NFUM hadnt chosen the repairer and Mr B was able to contact the repairer directly. He 
mustve been irritated by the premature notification that NFUM was closing the claim. But I 
dont consider that the shortcomings in NFUMs communication caused an impact on Mr B at 
a level that calls for compensation.
The Maximum Amount Payable
Ive seen that  since at least 2016 - the policy terms included the following:
Maximum Amount Payable
The maximum WE will pay will be:
a) the MARKET VALUE of the VEHICLE, or
b) the value shown on YOUR SCHEDULE,
whichever is less.And  since at least 2018 - the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) included
the following:
what is insured?
If your vehicle is stolen or written off we will pay the market value or the amount
shown on your policy schedule, whichever is less
Mr B hasnt elaborated on his understanding of the policy wording. 
I accept that NFUM couldve made it clear in the schedule that the sum stated was the 
maximum payable.
Nevertheless I consider that the policy terms and the IPID made it clear enough that the 
maximum NFUM would pay would be the lower of the market value or the sum stated in the 
policy schedule. So Im satisfied that - in the context of a long-standing agricultural vehicle 
policy for an agricultural engineer  NFUM had done enough to explain the importance and 
ramifications of declaring a value. I dont consider that NFUM had to give Mr B a verbal 
reminder of this.
Changes in the sums stated in the policy schedule
I dont consider that it would be proportionate to try at this stage to obtain recordings of each 
call preceding a renewal. I say that because I consider that Mr B had a responsibility to 
check each policy schedule and to tell NFUM if he thought that there had been any error in 
the sums stated. 
From at least January 2015, Mr B had a tractor with an 08 registration number. From
March 2015, NFUM issued an amended schedule to change its value to £32,500.00. That 
was after the renewal. So I find that Mr B had contacted NFUM to update the sum stated.
From June 2016, Mr B removed the 08 tractor from cover. In its place, he added a tractor
with a 16 registration number. The policy schedule stated its value as £87,250.00.
In mid-January 2019, the policy schedule listed two tractors, the 16 tractor and a tractor
with an 06 vehicle registration number with values of respectively £87,250.00 and
£20,000.00.
In mid-January 2020, the policy schedule listed the 16 and 06 tractors with values of
respectively £87,500.00 and £20,000.00. I consider that Mr B was responsible for the slightly 
changed value of the 16 tractor from £87,250.00 to £87,500.00. 
In about April 2020, Mr B got an additional tractor with a 67 registration number. It was of
the same make and model as the 16 tractor. He added the 67 tractor to the policy. The 
policy schedule listed it with a value of £48,000.00.
NFUM believes that, when he acquired the 67 tractor in April 2020  the total price had 
been about £53,000.00. NFUMs belief is based on its note of a call from Mr Bs 
representative on 7 October 2021, quoting her as saying that he had paid a 10% deposit and 
the VAT but financed the balance of about £48,000.00. 
The representative says thats not correct. But no call recording is available to me. And 
NFUM made its note of the call for the purposes of its business. So on balance I find that 
NFUM correctly noted what the representative said. Neither Mr B nor his representative has 
provided enough documentary evidence of what he had paid. In any event, I dont consider that much turns on the price paid or the value of the 67 
tractor in April 2020, because Mr B renewed the policy from mid-January 2021.
Mr B removed the 06 tractor from cover. For the year from mid-January 2021, the policy
schedule listed the 16 and 67 tractors with values of respectively £65,000.00 and
£48,000.00. So Mr B had reduced the value of the 16 tractor from £87,500.00 to
£65,000.00 at the same time as re-stating the value of £48,000.00 for the 67 tractor.
Mr B has offered no explanation for the reduction in the value of the 16 tractor or for the 
value of the 67 tractor stated in the schedule for the year from mid-January 2021. Rather 
he has said that by the time of the accident in September 2021, second-hand values had 
increased as a result of the pandemic and subsequent supply issues.
In my view, Mr B has fallen short of showing evidence that the sum stated for the 67 tractor 
was adequate in January 2021 but became inadequate before the accident in September 
2021. 
Mr B had made a mid-term change in March 2015. Even if the slight change in mid-January 
2020 was a mistake by NFUM, I consider that the significant reduction he made in mid-
January 2021 shows that he knew that the sums stated in the policy schedule would limit 
any claim, as well as believing that the sums stated would affect his premium.
In the context of a long-standing agricultural vehicle policy for an agricultural engineer, I 
conclude that Mr B couldve updated the sum stated but he didnt do so.
Conclusion 
Because of the policy terms and the changes in the sums stated, I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct NFUM to do any more in response to Mr Bs claim and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do any more in
response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman