DRN-2856416
The complaint
Mr G, on behalf of his company M, complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund money 
he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr G fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to this complaint to 
be as follows;
In January 2020 Mr G received a call from somebody saying they were from the fraud 
department of his internet service provider. The caller said that some suspicious activity had 
been detected on his IP address, which had left it open to public access, meaning his email, 
shopping and bank accounts were not secure. Mr G has said the caller seemed to know a lot 
about him and the accounts he held.
 
The caller told Mr G the malicious activity on his IP address needed to be cleaned up and to 
do so it was necessary to carry out checks across a number of online accounts that he held. 
This included his email address, accounts that he held with online retailers and his bank 
accounts. The caller told Mr G that even while they were speaking they were tracking his IP 
address live and could see unauthorised access taking place in a location in London. They 
told Mr G they knew they were going to hack his accounts, so they stressed to Mr G the 
importance of having to get things done quickly, to eliminate the risk. But unknown to Mr G 
at the time, he was actually talking to fraudsters.
 
The fraudster told Mr G that in order for the malicious activity to be cleared, it was necessary 
to access his accounts and then come out of the account straight away. Mr G has described 
how he considered what he was being asked to do as notional activities, aimed at just 
ensuring his accounts were safe. The fraudsters told Mr G that, where access had been 
gained illegally, it would have left tags on the account which needed to be cleared, and by 
carrying out this activity of going into the accounts, it would clear the tags and enable any 
further suspicious activity to be identified.
 
The fraudster initially instructed Mr G to check in and out of his email account, and said there 
was no unusual activity, Mr G has said he was told to do this twice to make sure. At this 
point Mr G was passed over to another fraudster, who claimed to be a senior advisor for the 
internet service provider. They told Mr G it was necessary for him to also check his online 
shopping accounts, talking him through how to do this. Mr G has described that for his online 
shopping accounts, he was asked to review a purchase and take the transaction right up to 
the point before payment, to check things were ok. It was Mr Gs belief that if he didnt do 
this his accounts would be at risk and the hackers would be able to use his accounts. The 
fraudsters told Mr G there was no unusual activity on his shopping accounts.
 
It is not completely clear when, but at some point during the conversations with the 
fraudsters, Mr G was struggling to follow their instructions and so they persuaded him that 
they would be able to help him more if he allowed them access to his PC, via remote access 
software, which Mr G agreed to.
 
Mr G has said the fraudsters had offered their credentials at the beginning of the call, but he 
asked them for further credentials. In response, the fraudster directed Mr G to a webpage, 
which hes described as being full of computer code, with white writing on a black 
background. When there, the fraudsters directed Mr G to a twelve-digit number, which they 
told Mr G was a secure device number, linked to his account with the internet provider. 
They told Mr G only the provider would know this code, as they said it was unique to Mr Gs 
PC. When the fraudster was able to recite this twelve-digit number, it gave Mr G further 
comfort that he was talking to his genuine internet provider.
 
Mr G has said he likened what was happening to a comparable experience he had with a 
website he uses, whereby hes said whilst it is possible to access this site directly using a 
standard browser, the link only works if he has already had direct access to it, and if for any 
reason his browsing history has been erased this access would be denied. Mr G thought this 
may be because something recognises his IP address as a previous user. Mr G 
acknowledged that he didnt know if this is factually correct, but in his mind, this experience, 
led him to believe the fraudsters story had credibility. 
Mr G was then told he should check his online bank accounts for any unusual activity. He 
followed the fraudsters instructions and logged into a personal bank account he holds, with 
another bank. Again, nothing untoward was found.
Following this, the fraudster asked Mr G if he had any other business banking accounts. Mr 
G has said he recalled the fraudsters knew about his personal bank account, and that they 
gave the impression they also knew about his account with Starling. The fraudster told Mr G 
that this account should be checked too.
Mr G has said that he usually used a tablet for online banking, but was told by the fraudster 
that in order for a clean to be effective, he should log into his Starling account using his PC.  
Mr G has described how he attempted to log into his Starling account, on his PC, through 
the webpage and he requested a number of verification codes to be sent to his mobile, but 
he didnt receive them. Hes said that after several attempts a notification appeared on his 
tablet that a new payee had been set up. Mr G has said he opened the app on his tablet, 
which said that a payment had been set up, for £10,000, to a name he didnt recognise.
On receipt of this Mr G has said he told the fraudster about the notification and that it was to 
a name he didnt recognise. Mr G was asked to authorise this, but as he didnt recognise the 
name, he told the fraudster he wouldnt. The fraudsters assured Mr G this was all part of 
checking whether his bank account had been compromised and it was just another way of 
logging in and out of his account, as hed done with his email and online shopping accounts. 
Mr G has also said he asked the fraudsters why it had to be done this way and, while he 
cannot recall what he was told, hes said it was a credible answer.
The fraudster added that it was a made-up name and was just a procedure to enable the 
account to be accessed, which was quite safe. The fraudsters offered to change the name to 
Mr Gs name, which they did, and told him that within a few seconds the transactions would 
show back in his account anyway. Alongside this, the fraudsters continued to tell Mr G that 
they were tracking a live login on his IP address from another location.
Mr G was reassured when the fraudsters changed the name of the payee to his name and 
he was told that the funds would be returned within just a few seconds. And, believing it to 
be genuine, Mr G went ahead and authorised the following payment;- 21 July 2020 @ 16:36  £10,000 
Mr G has said that throughout this interaction he felt under intense pressure to take action to 
prevent the unauthorised access to his IP address the caller said they were tracking. At one-
point Mr G said he would ring off and call back the following day. But the fraudster said 
although they were meant to be off duty from 5pm, they were willing to stay behind to help 
Mr G avoid the risk, which Mr G has said he found persuasive.
 
Soon after, Mr G saw another payment had been set up and the fraudsters told him this 
needed to be authorised, as they were very close to clearing the malicious activity. Mr G has 
told us he refused to authorise the payment, even though he says the fraudster was telling 
him they were close to clearing the malicious activity. They told Mr G they could access his 
account through their companys main server, which would speed things up and hed be able 
to see the refund of the first payment, before authorising the second payment.
Mr G has described how then, after a few minutes a blue screen appeared on his PC, 
displaying the internet providers name and saying main server, quickly followed by a 
Starling account summary page appearing.
Mr G has said the summary page was the same as he would usually see. Hes said it 
showed that £20,000 had been credited to the account. Seeing this, Mr G believed that the 
£10,000 he had authorised had been returned to his account, with a further £10,000 being 
an amount to cover, in advance, the other payment he was being asked to authorise. 
Convinced that what he was being shown was his genuine Starling account, Mr G went 
ahead and approved a second payment;
- 21 July 2020 @ 17:26 £10,000
The fraudster then told Mr G the clean-up had not worked and that they were working hand-
in-hand with Starlings fraud team and that a further intervention was required. Mr G has said 
at this point he was apprehensive and so wanted to contact Starling to verify the story. Mr G 
said he tried to find Starlings contact number online, but was finding it difficult as pages on 
his PC appeared, then disappeared, which Mr G now believes was down to the fraudsters 
still having remote access to his PC and being able to see what he was doing. Mr G was 
eventually able to locate a contact number for Starling and called it, which he did from his 
landline, while the fraudster was still on the line on his mobile. On talking to Starling, it 
became clear that Mr G had fallen victim to a scam. 
 
Mr G has said that he doesnt recall seeing any messages or warnings, on either his PC or 
tablet, when the payments were being made. 
 
Starling contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank where the funds were sent to) to try and 
recover the money that Mr G had sent, but only £56.66 remained, which was returned to Ms 
account on 3 March 2020.
Mr G complained to Starling and it issued its final response on 5 February 2020. Starling is a 
signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. In summary, Starling said that Mr G 
ignored an effective warning and didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payment to 
be genuine. 
Unhappy with Starlings response, Mr G then brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought that Mr G hadnt ignored an effective 
warning. In summary he said this because he didnt consider the warning would have been impactful in the specific circumstances of this case, as it wasnt specific to what was 
happening. Our investigator also didnt think it had been established that Mr G didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing he wasnt speaking to a genuine employee of his internet 
provider. In view of this it was our investigators opinion that Starling should refund M the 
money it lost, along with interest. 
Starling disagreed with our investigators view. In summary it maintained that it didnt think 
Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. It said this because Mr G 
had initially refused to authorise a payment to a payee he didnt know, the fraudster then 
changed the payee to Mr G. But the account number and sort code didnt change. Starling 
said if Mr G had checked this he would have been alerted that he was not making the 
payment to himself. Alongside this, it didnt consider that Mr G making such large payments, 
could be related to the resolution of a broadband issue he had been contacted about.
Starling added that it didnt agree with our investigators view that the warnings Mr G had 
been shown were not impactful. It considered the warnings should have been impactful, 
considering the customers circumstances, particularly the first warning it showed Mr G, 
which it said had reference to online banking compromise.
Our investigator considered the points that Starling raised, but they didnt change his 
position. In summary, he said Mr G hadnt set up the payments himself and was following 
the instructions of the fraudster  so he didnt consider that Mr G knew the sort code or 
account number that the payment was going to. He added that the process was following a 
pattern that had been used to check his other accounts and he had been on the phone for 
several hours with the fraudsters assisting him. Our investigator added that Mr Gs age and 
knowledge of computers meant there was a disparity in knowledge between both parties. He 
thought it was reasonable for Mr G to think the service was to help protect him from a cyber-
attack. He didnt consider it was fair to say Mr G had no reasonable basis to believe the 
phone call, considering the sophistication of this particular scam.
Starling responded to say that it believed Mr G would have seen the sort code and account 
details for the payee, when approving the payment in the app. It didnt agree with our 
investigators position that Mr Gs age and lack of knowledge about computers made him 
more susceptible to the scam. As well as this, it said that the fraudsters had shown a 
statement with a refund after the payment had been made, and the CRM code states that 
reasonable basis needs to be established at the time of making the payment. 
Our investigator responded to the further points that Starling had made, but his view 
remained the same. In summary he said the type of fraud Mr G fell victim to was particularly 
sophisticated, the fraudsters had spent a long time building rapport with Mr G and asking 
him to carry out a number of tasks to secure his accounts. Given the amount of time
the fraudsters had spent building their credibility with Mr G and the apparent threat against 
the security of his accounts, our investigator considered he had a reasonable basis of belief 
when he made the payment. 
Starling responded. In summary it re-iterated the previous arguments it had made and 
fundamentally disagreed with our investigators recommendation.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Starling should have reimbursed M in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect M from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr G was tricked into making the payments. He feared his 
personal details had been compromised and that his accounts were at risk if he didnt act 
quickly. But this alone, wouldnt mean that M is entitled to a refund under the CRM code. 
It is for Starling to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those exceptions are: 
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
 
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief. But they do not persuade me that Mr G 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why;
Effective Warnings
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
Starling has said Mr G would have seen the following warning(s) when the payment was set 
up;
Trying to set up a new payee with Online Banking but not seeing the details you have entered on thewebsite here?
Its likely that the computer or tablet youre using to access the Online Banking has been 
compromised or youre using a fake version of the Online Banking website.
Stop using the service until you can be sure your device is secure and ensure you always access 
Online Banking through the link on www.starlingbank.com
Someone asking you to do this?
Starling Bank will never ask you to add a payee or make payments to a safe account. If someone 
has asked you to, this may be a scam.
Not trying to add a payee to your account?
If you didnt add a new payee yourself with Online Banking, please stop and contact customer 
service
Mr G has said he doesnt recall seeing any warnings. I dont doubt he doesnt recall seeing 
them, particularly given he was being coached by the fraudsters around what steps to take. I 
think it more likely than not though these warnings were shown. But in any event, even if Mr 
G had seen the warnings, Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning 
exception were not met in the circumstances of this case, Ill explain why.
I appreciate that, in displaying this message, Starling took steps to provide Mr G with an 
effective warning during this payment journey. However, despite this, Im not persuaded 
Starling has demonstrated that the warnings it presented met the minimum requirements of 
an effective warning under the CRM Code.
 
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. The warning 
Starling gave does, at least in part, appear directed at the prevention of scams whereby a 
customers online banking may have been compromised, where a customer may be asked 
to set up a new payee or where they may have been asked to move money to a safe 
account. 
But Im not satisfied this warning did enough to counter the specific type of impersonation 
scam that Mr G was falling victim to. I dont consider it would bring to life what this type of 
scam might look or feel like and it doesnt provide any context on how prevalent these types 
of scams are and how fraudsters are able to disguise themselves and impersonate trusted 
organisations (such as, but not limited to, a customers Bank, HMRC, the Police or, as in this 
case, their Internet Service Provider). I dont think the warning would reasonably have had 
the desired impact on Mr Gs actions to reconsider the payment as a result.
I dont find the warnings sufficient to make the nature of that scam risk apparent to a typical 
customer (including a microenterprise or charity) or give them enough information to allow 
the practical assessment of the level of that risk in a specific transaction.
In short, the warning fails to get across in an impactful way what an incipient risk of this type 
would look like for a customer who hasnt already recognised the scam they may be falling 
victim to. Im also mindful that in order for the warning to meet the CRM Codes minimum 
requirements of an effective warning it should clearly set out the consequences of not 
taking the suggested steps in the warning. I dont find the warning given makes this sufficiently clear: for example, setting out that the transaction will be irrevocable, and that if it 
proves not to be legitimate this will likely mean the funds cannot be recovered. So, Im not 
satisfied Starlings warning met the requisite criteria here either. 
Overall, I dont consider the warnings given were effective warnings as defined by the CRM 
Code. It follows that Starling has not established it can fairly apply the exception to 
reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning.
Did Mr G make the payments with a reasonable basis for belief?
I have also carefully thought about Starlings representations about whether Mr G had a 
reasonable basis for belief. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. I say that 
because;
- Mr G had an existing relationship with the Internet Service Provider the fraudsters 
were impersonating. He held both business and personal accounts with them  so I 
think it reasonable that he could have considered they would genuinely want to 
discuss matters with him if his accounts were at risk.
- I dont think Starling has given enough consideration to the fact the fraudster had 
created an environment where Mr G thought he had to act quickly to protect his 
accounts from an attack. The convincing nature of these scams can often have a 
negative effect on a persons thought process and make them take steps that, in the 
cold light of day, they might not otherwise take.
- Mr G, albeit maybe incorrectly, likened the scenario the fraudsters portrayed, of his 
IP address being compromised, to something he had experienced. So, I think it is 
understandable and not unreasonable why he may have thought what was 
happening seemed plausible.
- The fraudsters took Mr G through a number of steps over a prolonged period of time, 
keeping him on the phone for several hours and checking numerous accounts.  
Importantly, in the circumstances of this case, the fraudsters lulled Mr G into a false 
sense of security by confirming there were no issues with multiple accounts, before 
targeting his Starling account. 
- In particular, the fraudsters bypassed another account Mr G held with a different 
bank, which they could equally have focused their attention on and sought to gain 
funds from. Indeed, Mr G has indicated that had they chosen to, it would have been 
as lucrative for the fraudsters to have defrauded him on that account, as it was for 
them on his Starling account. But by not doing so, and by reassuring Mr G that things 
seemed in order, I can understand why it wouldnt have been at the forefront of his 
mind that the intention of the call was to defraud him.
- In following what he believed were instructions to protect his accounts, I find Mr G did 
have a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was being made for legitimate 
purposes, particularly so in that Mr G had been persuaded that he was carrying out a 
notional activity, that would mean funds showing back in his account, within seconds.
- Mr G has said the fraudsters knew a lot of details about him, including his email and 
bank accounts that he held. Mr G checked the callers credentials and they were able 
to direct him to a webpage and recite a twelve-digit number, that they said only they 
would know. This persuaded Mr G they were genuine. Which I think is reasonable 
considering I dont think Mr G would have been aware, that fraudsters would have 
been able to mockup such a situation.- Although I acknowledge this would only be relevant for the second payment, the 
fraudsters were able to mimic a summary page of Ms Starling account, showing that 
credits had been received totaling £20,000. I dont think Mr G would have fairly or 
reasonably been aware that it was possible for a fraudster to replicate this type of 
information, in the same way that he was used to seeing from his genuine bank.
- This was a particularly sophisticated scam, where the fraudsters created a number of 
layers, gained remote access and were able to show Mr G screen images to support 
their claims of both where they were calling from and that funds were being credited 
into Ms account. Im not persuaded the average consumer would understand they 
still might not be talking to a legitimate person, even when the callers are providing 
complex detail, such as happened here. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Starling has established Mr G didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief that he was making a legitimate payment. It follows that Im not persuaded the 
exception for reasonable basis for belief applies to the payments Mr G authorised and that 
Starling can choose not to reimburse M.
Putting things right
Starling should now;
- Refund M the money lost, being £20,000 less any funds that have already been 
recovered and returned to M and;
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date it declined Ms claim 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman