DRN-4340031
The complaint
Mr K, Mr D and Mr A complain that Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect mis-
sold a home insurance policy.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mr K in my decision.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr K said he asked Homeprotect to change his buildings insurance policy 
from homeowner to a let to tenant policy after he moved out of his property. And 
Homeprotect agreed to this. Homeprotect sent Mr K the amended policy documents.  
In March 2022, Mr K said he was told that the policy would renew and payment would be 
taken. But the payment wasnt taken and the policy was lapsed. Homeprotect said the policy 
shouldnt have been agreed to when Mr K had told them he was no longer living at the 
property. Mr K when he spoke to Homeprotect said he was told that he wouldnt have been 
covered by the policy, even though hed paid the premium. He complained to Homeprotect.
Homeprotect said that when Mr K asked for the change to his insurance policy it should have 
been referred to their underwriters. If it had been the policy wouldnt have been agreed to as 
it wasnt something they offered as the policyholder needed to be resident in the property. 
Homeprotect said as the error was theirs, they would have honoured any claim made by     
Mr K. They also said that Mr K shouldnt have been told that the policy would renew. 
Homeprotect offered Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this 
had caused to him.
Mr K wasnt happy with Homeprotects response and referred his complaint to us. He said as   
Homeprotect has told him his property wouldnt have been covered, the policy had been mis-
sold and he wants his premiums refunded.
Our investigator said it wasnt fair that Mr K had paid for an insurance policy he shouldnt 
have been sold. He said Homeprotect should refund Mr K the premiums hed paid, plus 8% 
simple interest. And £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Homeprotect didnt agree they said any claim would have been honoured so there wouldnt 
have been any detriment to Mr K. They asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that when Mr K asked to amend his insurance cover, Homeprotect did 
something wrong. So in reaching my decision the remaining issue is how to put things right. 
Homeprotect said theyd previously been able to provide cover under the policy as their 
criteria covered several flats with multi occupancy within the property provided  one of the 
flats was occupied by a freeholder, in this case Mr K. But when he left the property all the 
occupants were tenants, meaning several leasehold flats under one roof. And this fell 
outside of their risk appetite.  
 
When Mr K moved out of the property, there was no longer a freeholder at the address and 
so when he notified them of the change  in August 2021, it should have been referred to their 
underwriters, and the policy cancelled. But this didnt happen. 
I can see after Mr K notified Homeprotect, in August 2021 of the change, he was sent  a 
policy adjustment letter with the policy schedule. I cant see any mention in the policy 
schedule for the need for one of the properties to be occupied by a freeholder. So, I dont 
think Mr K would have known about the impact of his move. And I cant see that 
Homeprotect notified Mr K of this before he looked to renew the policy, so leading him to 
believe the policy would continue.
In March 2022 Mr K was sent notification by Homeprotect that his policy was ready for 
renewal, and this would happen automatically from 06 April 2022, with payment being taken 
a week before. Homeprotect said they sent Mr K an email 22 April 2022 explaining that the 
policy had been lapsed. Mr K has said he didnt receive this email.
When considering mis-sale complaints the fact a policy might have been mis-sold isnt a 
deciding factor on its own. I also need to consider whether the consumer would have done 
something differently, but for the mis-sale. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS) 6.4.12 says about midterm 
changes:
(1) When explaining the implications of a change, a firm should explain any changes to 
the benefits and significant or unusual exclusions arising from the change.
(2) Firms will need to consider whether mid-term changes are compatible with the 
original policy, in particular whether it reserves the right to vary premiums, charges or 
other terms. Firms also need to ensure that any terms which reserve the right to make 
variations are not themselves unfair under the Unfair Terms Regulations (for contracts 
entered into before 1 October 2015) or the CRA. 1
ICOBS also says an insurer should ensure customers can make an informed decision: the 
appropriate information rule
ICOBS 6.1.5 (1): A firm must ensure that a customer is given appropriate information about 
a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
ICOBS 6.1.6 The appropriate information rule applies: (1) at all of the different stages of a 
contract and includes pre-conclusion and post-conclusion, and also when mid-term changes 
and renewals are proposed.
In this case the change wasnt compatible with the original policy. And it wasnt explained to 
Mr K what the impact of the changes would be. I think if Homeprotect hadnt made the error 
the policy would have been cancelled as it was a product that didnt satisfy their underwriting 
criteria. And Mr K would have had to have done something differently as he would have 
needed to find another insurer who would cover his insurance needs. 
When thinking about how the business should put things right, the guiding principle is putting 
the consumer back in the position they would be in now if the business hadn't done 
something wrong.I think if the error had been identified during the period of the policy there were two options  
to cancel the policy or to tell Mr K any future claims would be settled. But Mr K wasnt given 
the option of cancelling the policy or accepting the reassurance of any future claim being 
met. As the error was only addressed when the policy was due for renewal.
I cant know what Mr K would have done if hed been given the right information  but if 
Homeprotect hadnt made the error and referred Mr Ks change request to their underwriters 
I think the policy would have been cancelled. Ive considered the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which says where there has been 
careless misrepresentation (albeit this would be by the consumer) regardless of who cancels 
a policy, the insurer should return any unused premiums to the consumer (sometimes 
referred to as a pro rata refund). 
Homeprotect has said they would have honoured a claim if Mr K had made one as the error 
was theirs, so there hadnt been any detriment to Mr K. And if Mr K had made a claim, during 
the life of the policy when he was unaware Homeprotect had made an error, this is what I 
would have expected Homeprotect to do. But Mr K didnt make a claim. And he wasnt told 
until after hed looked to renew the policy that the policy shouldnt have been accepted when 
he reported the change in August 2021.
Ive also considered that if the error had been Mr Ks and a policy had been put into place 
that shouldnt have been the insurer could under CIDRA avoid the policy, treating it as if it 
had never existed. 
Putting things right
If Homeprotect hadnt made an error and referred Mt Ks change to their underwriters I think 
the most likely outcome would have been the cancellation of the policy, and Mr K would 
have been paid a pro rata refund. So, to put Mr K back into the position he would have been 
in, they should refund the premiums for the remainder of the policy term. 
This has caused Mr K distress and inconvenience. He has the distress of thinking his 
property was uninsured. And the inconvenience of having to seek other insurance cover 
after he was led to think his policy would continue.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect to:
Refund Mr Ks premiums from the 14 August 2021 to 05 April 2022 plus *8% simple 
interest from date of payment to date of settlement; and
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect to take 
off tax from this interest. Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mr D and Mr 
A to accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman