DRN-3219404
The complaint
Mr B complains about the poor service he received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) when he tried to buy some premium bonds.
What happened
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from NS&I. He sometimes had problems with 
the security questions depending on which staff he spoke to. And it felt as if half of the staff 
hadnt been trained properly. When Mr B wanted to buy some more premium bonds he was 
advised he could purchase sequential numbers to the ones he already owned. He was told 
to put the request on his application form. But NS&I collected his payment without carrying 
out his instructions. And he shouldve been told to sell the old bonds and then buy all of the 
replacements together. So Mr B wants NS&I to improve its level of service.
NS&I said Mr B held premium bonds in differing amounts. Each bond had a separate 
number. After Mr B increased his holding hed been sent a single sheet of paper showing all 
of his bond numbers in one place for his convenience. But Mr B would have to sell all of his 
bonds and then reinvest the proceeds together if he wanted a single block with sequential 
numbers throughout.
NS&I was sorry Mr B felt he hadnt always received a high level of service. It apologised for 
any misinformation Mr B had been given when he spoke to its helpline. And NS&I said itd 
arranged for a payment of £30 to be sent to Mr B as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator explained the role of our service was to settle 
disputes between consumers and businesses. It was the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority to monitor businesses and tell them how to operate. 
Our investigator could see NS&I had apologised for not properly understanding or explaining 
to Mr B how to achieve the sequential bond numbers. And he felt the £30 compensation paid 
to Mr B was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But he couldnt tell NS&I how to train 
its staff. That wasnt our role. And he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more. 
Mr B said he realised our service couldnt give instructions to NS&I about training. But he 
wanted our investigator to at least suggest that NS&I consider improving its staff training to 
avoid repeated mistakes. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the frustration Mr B has been through while trying to increase his 
holding in NS&I premium bonds. It mustve been exasperating to be told misleading 
information about how to obtain sequential numbers for his new bonds. 
Mr B says he found that NS&I staff treated his level of security responses differently 
depending upon who he spoke to. And he feels NS&I should make improvements to staff 
training so that he, and other customers, receive a more consistent level of service. 
Its clear Mr B couldve received a better service from NS&I. He did receive a single sheet of 
paper with all of his NS&I bonds listed together. And that wouldve made it easier to look 
after and monitor. But Mr B wasnt given the right information about how to make sure all of 
his bonds had sequential numbers. 
To do so, Mr B needed to sell his existing holding and then reinvest the full amount in one 
go. But NS&I has pointed out that wouldve meant his existing holding wouldnt have been 
eligible for any prizes for a month while the new, complete, investment became active. 
As our investigator has explained the role of this service is to see if NS&I has made any 
mistakes. And if so what needs to be done to put things right. 
NS&I, like any business, is bound by the law and its regulatory requirements. And its the 
role of NS&Is regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to ensure it meets those 
obligations. But the steps it takes to do that are a matter of commercial judgement. And its 
not the role of this service to tell NS&I how to run its business.
Ive taken on board Mr Bs frustration about the service he received from some of NS&Is 
staff. And I can see Mr B has contacted the Financial Conduct Authority to suggest NS&I 
should make improvements to its staff training. Mr B has acknowledged that our service isnt 
able to instruct NS&I what to do. But I understand our investigator has also passed on Mr Bs 
comments to NS&I.
While I dont have the power to consider how NS&I trains its staff Im sure it looks at the 
outcome of all the complaints it receives to see if it can improve things. And NS&I has 
responded that it monitors the performance of staff members to ensure their work is of a high 
and accurate standard. And it will take appropriate action if those standards arent met. 
I think thats a reasonable response to the problems Mr B has experienced.
NS&I has apologised for the poor service Mr B received. And its paid him £30 as a gesture 
of goodwill. I think thats a fair outcome in the circumstances. And Im not able to ask NS&I 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman