DRN-3333171
The complaint
Ms K complains Barbon Insurance Group Limited didnt tell her about the cancellation of a 
rent recovery policy which she had an interest in. 
What happened
Ms K is a landlord. In December 2018 her lettings agent took out a rent recovery policy 
through Barbon. The policy was in the name of the lettings agent but Ms K was named as 
having an interest in it (meaning she could benefit from a successful claim on the policy). 
The following year Ms K cancelled her arrangement with the lettings agent and it cancelled 
the rent recovery policy. 
Ms K complained shed never received notice of that cancellation. She said she only found 
out the policy had ended when she subsequently spoke to Barbon. If she had been told 
about the cancellation shed have renewed the policy meaning cover would have remained 
in place. 
Barbon said it had sent notice of the cancellation by email to Ms K and the lettings agent. It 
also queried whether this was a complaint we could consider because the policy was in the 
name of the lettings agent and not Ms K. 
Our investigator thought we could consider the complaint because although the policy wasnt 
in Ms Ks name she did have one of the qualifying relationships set out in our rules. She was 
a person for whose benefit a contract or insurance was taken out or was intended to be 
taken out with or through the respondent. But she didnt think Barbon had done anything 
wrong. Ms K didnt accept that. She said Barbon should have sent the cancellation notice 
direct to her (rather than to the lettings agent). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barbon didnt query our jurisdiction to consider the complaint in response to the 
investigators view (or a further email I sent). And for the reasons the investigator set out Im 
satisfied we can consider whether Barbon got anything wrong here. 
But I dont think it has. I think it was reasonable of it to send the cancellation email to the 
lettings agent given the policy was in its name. And Ive seen evidence which satisfies me it 
did that. In any event Barbon has provided evidence which shows the cancellation was also 
sent by email to Ms K at an email address which she subsequently contacted Barbon from. 
I understand she was in hospital at the time which may be why she wasnt aware of this but 
that isnt something Barbon knew about. So while Ms K may have been unaware the policy 
had been cancelled I dont think thats as a result of anything Barbon got wrong. And I dont 
think its responsible for the fact a policy wasnt in place when she needed to make a claim. 
I appreciate Ms K says the lettings agent didnt tell her the policy was in its (rather than her) 
name. And she says it didnt tell her about the cancellation. But those arent matters for 
which Barbon is responsible. If Ms K wants to pursue those matters shell need to do so 
outside of our service; our rules dont allow us to consider a complaint about the lettings 
agent. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman