DRN-4098415
The complaint
Mr L complained to our Service after experiencing long delays in obtaining information about 
his personal pension. Phoenix Life Limited is responsible for answering his complaint. So, to 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Phoenix Life.
The complaint initially raised was essentially about Mr L wanting to begin his retirement. 
However, due to the complexities of his personal circumstances on the effect of his pension, 
he wasnt issued with the financial information he needed to retire by Phoenix Life. This 
included not being given a retirement pack showing how much his pension benefits were 
worth, and obviously this was a major factor for Mr L in considering his future plans. 
Mr L says he told Phoenix Life what he wanted but the way he was treated was 
unacceptable in that the information he needed was first incorrect, and then consistently 
delayed. Because Mr L couldnt retire without the right financial information and benefits 
statement, he says Phoenix Lifes inactions have caused him a great deal of stress and 
inconvenience, and he has had to put all his retirement plans on hold for many months. 
Phoenix Life has since made a financial offer to Mr L to put him in the correct financial 
position he ought to have been in in the first place. Its also offered him £2,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its failures. Mr L agreed to the first element, which 
was about him getting the correct retirement benefits. However, he thinks the offer for the 
distress and inconvenience element doesnt adequately reflect what hes had to go through. 
So, to be clear, the original and substantive complaint has been resolved. What Im looking 
at here now is the distress and inconvenient elements only.
What happened
The original pension issue largely related to Mr L being unhappy when Phoenix Life mis-
quoted his overall pension benefits and then was unable to provide him with a pension 
valuation and retirement options pack. A part of the problem related to the settlement of a 
Pension Sharing Order (PSO), which was issued as part of Mr Ls divorce. So when his 
financial adviser requested an up-to-date value for the remainder of his pension, the figures 
were much lower than Mr L expected. 
Further to this, Mr Ls pension also had a guarantee which related to compensation following 
an industry-wide pension review carried out some time ago. And the valuation he requested 
ahead of retirement also hadnt accounted for this compensation he was owed. Despite well 
over a year passing since Mr L first requested a valuation, Phoenix Life still hadnt sorted 
these things out.
However, by March 2023 Phoenix had engaged a specialist who completed the necessary 
redress calculations, using a pension crystallisation date of 8 November 2021 thus assuming 
that Mr L would have retired from his employers scheme on this date. Mr L was then 
provided with detailed calculations showing his pension benefit calculations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case with care, I have decided not to uphold 
Mr Ls outstanding complaint about the distress payment. 
What the complaint is really about now
As Ive said, the core issue of this complaint has been resolved. Mr L was written to on 8 
March 2023 and I can see that after what appears to have been careful consideration, hes 
accepted the offer relating to his overall pension benefits and so he now knows where he 
stands.
As Mr L is able to move on with his plans, Im not going to go into any more detail about the 
original complaint issues. What remains is that Mr L has clearly had to work very hard 
indeed in first getting Phoenix Life to understand his complaint and for the business to then 
actually do something about it.
Mr Ls position now is that whilst he accepts the original complaint points have been 
resolved, he rejects the offer in respect of distress and inconvenience as he believes it does 
not provide the appropriate level of compensation based on the unacceptable delays he 
encountered. He says this has caused him a considerable amount of stress and that he is 
also financially out of pocket since his intention when he purchased a new home in 
December 2020 via a two-year fixed rate mortgage, was to pay of the remainder of the 
mortgage on conclusion of the two-year deal with the tax-free element of his pension. Mr L 
says hes been unable to do this due the delays and poor administration by Phoenix Life. As 
a consequence of all this, he says he is now having to continue to pay the mortgage on a 
standard variable rate and at a higher level of interest than it was when it was fixed. 
How much, if anything, should Phoenix Life pay to Mr L?
In determining a fair outcome Ive considered a number of factors. Ive first looked at whether 
an award for distress or inconvenience is appropriate. Ive also thought about how the 
business responded to its original failures and then what the impact of this on Mr L was. Ive 
also considered his age and his retirement plans and what he might have done with the 
money when it started being paid to him.
However, as Mr L himself acknowledges, putting an actual figure on this is quite difficult. He 
hasnt provided me with evidence of actual financial losses although I completely accept 
delaying his retirement plans would have caused him stress, as he now implies. Ive also considered our own general approach to distress and inconvenience awards. 
For example, I think an award of over £1,500 is appropriate as a starting point. I think such a 
figure would be reasonable to start from where a businesss mistakes cause sustained 
distress, potentially affecting health, or severe disruption to daily life typically lasting more 
than a year. A mistake that has an extremely serious short-term impact could also warrant 
this level of compensation, or even higher, but usually Id expect some acute ongoing effects 
if more money was to be considered. Examples at the higher end could include where the 
effects of the businesss mistake have a demonstrable lasting impact on someones health 
or even resulted in a personal injury or mental health issue. Once a persons health is 
affected, or an injury is sustained, I would consider making an award for pain and suffering.
However, in coming to a decision here, whilst Ive got no doubt of the effects of these errors 
and delays would have most likely cause, theres certainly no supporting medical or financial 
evidence from Mr L for me to go to a higher level. So Ive used my own experience of cases 
and judgement, to help me arrive at a figure.
The figure proposed by Phoenix Life is £2,000 and I dont think thats unreasonable. In my 
view, the personal and financial effects of Phoenix Lifes failure have been relatively short 
term  although again, I fully accept they might not have felt like this at times to Mr L.
Summary
Im pleased weve been able to help Mr L resolve his substantive complaint. 
However, for the remaining issue about the obvious distress and inconvenience suffered, I 
think the offer from Phoenix Life is fair. In the light of the tangible evidence we have, around 
the known effects of any distress, inconvenience or losses caused by Phoenix Lifes failures, 
I think the offer of £2,000 is appropriate. 
Given Mr Ls only remaining complaint point was about the distress and inconvenience 
award, Im not upholding this part of the complaint. 
This is based on the understanding Phoenix Life Limited must now pay Mr L the further 
£2,000 as already offered. I think that is fair.
My final decision
I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Other than to pay the further £2,000 I do not require Phoenix Life Limited to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman