DRN-2441189
The complaint
 Mrs P (through a representative) complains Morses Club PLC (Morses Club) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mrs P took five home collected loans between July 2018 and March 2020. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £400 18/07/2018 19/02/2019
2 £400 19/02/2019 03/10/2019
3 £200 26/07/2019 05/03/2020
4 £400 03/10/2019 *
5 £600 05/03/2020 *
*When Morses Club provided us its file, there was an outstanding balance for loans 4 and 5.   
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted the first four home collected loans. 
But he said loan 5 shouldnt have been lent. He thought that the pattern of lending 
suggested repayment of loan 5 was unsustainable. 
Morses Club disagreed with the adjudicators assessment for loan 5. It doesnt feel it was 
wrong to lend this loan. In summary, Morses Club has said that:
the repayment history showed Mrs P used the credit correctly;  
there are no rules or regulation which govern home credit that state a consumer 
should only have one loan running at a time; 
the income and expenditure assessments considered existing loans before deciding 
if Mrs P would qualify for further credit;
there isnt any evidence in the form of bank statements or Mrs Ps credit file to show 
she was borrowing again, finding funds from other sources or missing repayments to 
make the repayments for the home loans; and
when Mrs P initially made the complaint, she didnt wish to complain about her home 
loans but about other loans which Morses Club wasnt responsible for  suggesting 
she didnt see any issue with the home loans provided by Morses Club.
Mrs P (or her representative) hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs P doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses Club wasnt 
wrong to lend loans 1 to 4. It seems therefore that these loans are no longer in dispute and 
so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about them. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses Club did anything wrong when it 
granted loan 5. But I have kept the other lending in mind when thinking about the overall 
lending relationship between Morses Club and Mrs P. 
For the lending which remains in dispute, Morses Club had to assess the application to 
check if Mrs P could afford to pay back the amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. 
It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Morses Clubs 
checks could have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses Club should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs P. These factors include:
Mrs P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs P.
Morses Club was required to establish whether Mrs P could sustainably repay her home 
loans  not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs P was able
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The
Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ps complaint.Having looked at the overall pattern of Morses Clubs lending history with Mrs P, I agree with 
our adjudicator that Morses Club should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because:
By loan 5 it was almost 20 months into the lending relationship with no breaks 
between loans. There wasnt a single day where Mrs P wasnt indebted and some of 
the loans overlapped. In my view, Mrs Ps loan history up until this point was a clear 
indication that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving.
Mrs P took some loans on the same day that she repaid previous ones. For example, 
loans 2, 4 and 5 were each taken out on the same day as repayment of a previous 
lending that this was indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable.
The loans show a broadly similar pattern of borrowing and her overall debt was 
broadly increasing over the period. Mrs P generally took loans of £400. And with 
loans overlapping and her final loan being £600, her outstanding debt generally 
increased. I think its most likely this pattern of borrowing over the period showed that 
Mrs P didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting 
regular living expenses or other financial commitments.
Mrs Ps lending history was prolonged and after more than 19 months of 
indebtedness she borrowed her highest loan of all, loan 5 being for £600. The 
amount of time that Mrs P spent indebted to Morses Club meant that she was 
servicing a debt to Morses Club over an extended period.
I think that Mrs P lost out when Morses Club provided loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the number of loans and time spent in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
I appreciate, from what Morses Club has told us, that it appears Mrs P didnt make a 
complaint about the Morses Club home collected loans when she contacted Morses Club 
about some other loans. But this doesnt persuade me that Mrs P doesnt wish to complain 
about the Morses Club loans (as she has raised a complaint to this service about them) or 
that loan 5 was correctly lent.  
So, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint about loan 5. And Ive set out what Morses Club should 
do to put things right as detailed below.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided Mrs P with loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs P may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs P would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In order to put thing right Morses Club should:
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the current outstanding balance on 
loan 5, meaning Mrs P only has to repay the principal;  
apply any repayments already made towards loan 5 as if they were made towards 
the principal sum. If after doing this, Mrs P has already paid enough for this loan to 
be fully repaid, then any overpayment needs to be refunded, from the date the over 
payment became due to the date of settlement. 8% simple interest per year should 
also be added to any overpayment*. 
If there is still an outstanding balance due for loan 4, then any refund for loan 5 can 
be offset against it. 
However, if an outstanding still remains due for loan 5, Morses Club and Mrs P 
should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order to repay any 
remaining outstanding balance but Id remind Morses Club of its obligation to treat 
Mrs P fairly;   
remove loan 5 from Mrs Ps credit file entirely, this is because the period of time    
Mrs P owed Morses Club money means that any information still recorded about this 
loan is adverse. Loan 5 doesnt have to be removed from Mrs Ps credit file until it 
has been repaid, but Morses Club should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about this loan.   
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs P as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman