DRN-2665559
The complaint
Mr M complains that a carpet he obtained through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, is not of satisfactory quality. 
He wants a full refund or the carpet to be replaced.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr M bought carpet for three rooms and the hallway. In July 2018, during 
hot weather, the carpets creased and raised. He complained to the supplier who arranged 
for the fitter to re-stretch and re-fit the carpets. The same thing happened in summer 2019 
and the carpets were re-stretched and re-fitted for a second time. 
In June 2020, Mr M complained to the supplier again as the same thing had happened. The 
supplier didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, so he complained to Hitachi.
An independent report was arranged and, as a result of its conclusions, Hitachi didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that there had been a breach of contract or mis-representation by the supplier. The 
problem seemed to be with the fitting of the carpet which wasnt paid for with the fixed sum 
loan.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the independent report concluded that the 
carpet had been bent and that this must have happened before the carpet was in his 
property. So the carpet must have been delivered in a damaged or faulty condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr M brings his complaint under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Mr M 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also 
bring that claim against the lender, in certain circumstances. 
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the carpet wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether the carpet was of satisfactory quality, Ive relied on the findings of the 
independent report  as this was completed by an expert. The report concludes that:
All of the reported problems relate to the original incorrect fitting plus a poor standard of re-
stretching. No evidence of a manufacturing fault.
The fitting of the carpet wasnt paid for through the fixed sum loan  Mr M paid the fitter in 
cash. So I agree with our investigator that Hitachi isnt responsible for putting right a fault 
which has been caused by the fitting of the carpet.
Mr M points out that the report says that:
There is no doubt the fitters bent the carpets fitted to the lounge and master bedroom which 
created creases.
And Mr M says this must have happened before the carpet was in his property meaning it 
wasnt supplied in a satisfactory condition. I appreciate he feels strongly about this and Ive 
considered what he says very carefully. But Im not persuaded by all the evidence that the 
carpet was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. I find that, in all likelihood, the carpet was 
bent by the fitters during the fitting process.
Im not satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and it follows I dont find Hitachi needs to do anything to put things right for Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman