DRN-3989150
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
for a washing machine on his home appliance insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
On 10 May 2022, Mr F reported water escaping from the machine, and when it was on a 
spin cycle it would move across the floor. An engineer attended however didnt find any fault 
and said the machine had been installed on an uneven floor.
Later the same month Mr F reported a substance being left on his clothes and a further visit 
took place in June 2022, where again D&G said no fault was found.
On 25 August 2022, Mr F reported the machine was shaking and it had damaged his floor 
and cupboards. Parts were ordered to repair the machine, and this was completed the 
following month.
Mr F was unhappy about the damage that the leaking machine had caused and the failed 
repair attempts, so he raised a complaint. D&G said that the terms of the policy allows it to 
try and repair the machine initially. It also said that the policy didnt provide any cover for 
damage as a result of a faulty item.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the policy terms 
showed that D&G would always look to repair the item in the first instance, and that the 
policy doesnt cover for damage as a result of the water leak.
Mr F disagreed with our investigator, saying that he made D&G aware of the issues with his 
machine on several occasions and as it failed to resolve the issues, it should be liable for the 
resultant damage thats been caused.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mr F asked D&G to attend and inspect his machine on multiple occasions, 
however there was a timeframe between June until late August whereby Mr F didnt raise 
any concerns. This would indicate that the machine was in a working condition at this time 
and/or the machine had intermittent issues.
D&G sent out qualified engineers to inspect the machine and on the initial two visits they 
couldnt find any faults. It was only in August that an engineer found a fault and ordered 
parts. If the faults were intermittent then an engineer needs to be able to see it in order for a 
diagnosis to be made. I havent seen any evidence to show that D&G failed to identify issues 
in their previous visits.
The policy that Mr F has doesnt include a set number of visits that D&G can undertake 
before an appliance is written off. I can see that when the parts were fitted it didnt rectify an 
issue so to prevent any further delay D&G have offered a replacement machine. The 
decision to replace an item is one for D&G to make and Im satisfied that it has fairly applied 
the terms of the policy. 
The policy also doesnt provide cover for consequential losses from a faulty appliance. The 
policy has the following exclusion which says D&G wont be liable for:
Damage to any other property or possessions, unless its our fault
I havent seen evidence that the damage caused to the flooring or cupboards is due to the 
conduct or diagnosis of D&Gs engineers. Im satisfied that D&G have correctly applied its 
policy and as the damage is due to the fault on the machine and this type of damage is 
excluded from the policy, I wont be asking D&G to do anything further. 
I appreciate Mr Fs comments that he had to raise issues with the machine on several 
occasions, and there seemed no lasting repair. However, based on the evidence Ive 
reviewed, Ive not identified that D&G have acted unfairly in the claim journey. Whilst I 
understand Mr Fs frustration, Im satisfied that D&G have acted in line with the policy terms 
and conditions that were in place for this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman