DRN-2455879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premium 
they paid for an annual, multi trip, travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 January 2020, Mr and Mrs P bought an annual, multi trip, travel insurance policy, 
underwritten by Great Lakes (the policy). Subject to the terms of the policy being met, the 
policy provided Mr and Mrs P cover for European trips (excluding certain stipulated 
countries) of up to 35 days duration. 
The policy started the following day, on 15 January 2020. It was due to end on 14 January 
2021. 
The policy cost Mr and Mrs P £446.47 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel 
insurance cover (including a discount of £25.31). And it provided cover for several pre-
existing medical conditions which theyd both declared at the time of taking out the policy. 
The declared medical conditions were also factored into price Mr and Mrs P paid for the 
annual premium. 
Mr and Mrs P went on holiday in February 2020. And on 29 July 2020, they contacted the 
insurance broker whod sold the policy to them, with the intention of cancelling it and 
obtaining a premium refund. 
Mr and Mrs P were told that they werent entitled to a monetary refund. However, if they did 
choose to cancel their policy on 29 July 2020, Mr and Mrs P were offered credit to the value 
of £193.82 to put towards any of following, underwritten by Great Lakes:
-a new 15-month annual policy for the price 12, at the current market rates; or
-a deferred annual policy (a 12-month policy, at the current market rates). Allowing 
Mr and Mrs P the choice of when to start the cover at any time within 12 months 
of buying the policy; or
-a UK only annual multi trip policies, with the potential to upgrade the destination 
area, at a later date.
Ill refer to this as Great Lakes Refund Offer.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think those options were fair. So, they didnt cancel the policy. Instead, 
they complained to Great Lakes who, ultimately, maintained its position. Unhappy with the 
response they received, Mr and Mrs P complained to our Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. In the circumstances he didnt think 
Great Lakes offer was unfair. Mr and Mrs P disagree. So, their complaint has been passed 
to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
Our investigator has previously set out to the parties the relevant industry rules and 
guidance. But to summarise: 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules and guidance about a 
consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. Theyre contained in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says consumers have the right to cancel insurance contracts like the one 
Mr and Mrs P bought within 14 days of taking it out, without penalty and without 
giving any reason (the right to cancel). 
Under ICOBS, a firm may also provide longer or additional cancellation rights. So 
long as they are on terms which are no less favourable to the consumer (unless the 
differences are clearly explained). 
ICOBS 7.2.2 says if a consumer exercises the right to cancel, they may only be 
required to pay for the service actually provided as per the contract. This may 
include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk). 
ICOBS 7.2.4 says: In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys 
exposure that relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, 
where there is material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a 
more accurate method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an 
amount commensurate to the risk incurred. 
It isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs P didnt cancel the policy within 14 days; both parties accept 
that they didnt cancel it at all. But under industry rules, even if they had cancelled it within 
14 days, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. 
The policy terms and conditions
Mr and Mrs Ps policy sets out their right to terminate the policy as:
 You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation rights under the contract of insurance it 
had with Great Lakes are more favourable to them than is required by industry rules. But, even so, when Mr and Mrs P contacted Great Lakes on 29 July 2020 asking for a 
monetary refund of the premium, with a view to cancelling the policy, many months had 
passed since the start of the policy. This call took place long after the 14-day cooling off 
period set out in the policy.
Although the policy says Great Lakes has the discretion to refund the premium to Mr and 
Mrs P, if cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period; thats only in exceptional 
circumstances. I dont think it would be fair to have expected Great Lakes to use its 
discretion to refund the premium, had Mr and Mrs P cancelled the policy on 29 July 2020. 
The examples of exceptional circumstances expressly mentioned in the policy are very much 
based on the policyholders individual circumstances - bereavement and/or a change in a 
policyholders medical conditions. So, Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 global pandemic 
amounts to exceptional circumstances akin to bereavement and/or a change in medical 
condition. And I dont think such a situation, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which this term (which allows Great Lakes some discretion to offer a 
refund outside of the 14-day cooling off period), is intended to cover. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs P were entitled to a refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with Great Lakes should they have proceeded to cancel the policy 
when they called Great Lakes on 29 July 2020.
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
I understand why any future travel plans which Mr and Mrs P might have had during the
remainder of the policy year  and so the need for their annual multi-trip insurance policy 
changed due to circumstances outside of their control. 
So, Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart 
from industry rules and the policy terms in the circumstances of this case  particularly given 
the exceptional, extraordinary and unexpected circumstances surrounding the pandemic.
I know Mr and Mrs P say that Great Lakes shouldve offered a monetary refund when they 
called on 29 July 2020. And in response to our investigators view theyve said theyve been 
effectively unable to use the policy since March 2020 due to the government advising 
against all but essential travel. 
But Im also conscious that Covid-19  and its global impact - couldnt have been anticipated 
and foreseen. It was outside of the control of Mr and Mrs P, and Great Lakes. And I dont 
think Covid-19 made it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ps contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  or for them to have benefitted from the policy.
Cover under the policy started on 15 January 2020 and they were insured from that date, for 
the duration of the policy, for trips to most European countries lasting up to 35 days at a 
time. The benefit of the policy had been continuously in place from 15 January 2020 up to 29 
July 2020, when Mr and Mrs P called the insurance broker. 
Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of 
knowing how many trips Mr and Mrs P had taken or how many had been booked (unless 
theyd made a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips booked or, as it 
transpires in Mr and Mrs Ps case, only the one theyd booked and went on in February 
2020. Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force 
including Mr and Mrs Ps trip in February 2020. Great Lakes were on risk for any claim that 
may have arisen should that trip have been cancelled between the policy start date and date 
they were meant go on holiday. And for any claim they might have needed to make as a result of an insured event occurring whilst away  for example if they required urgent 
medical care or needed to be repatriated back to the UK. 
The price set by Great Lakes for the policy also covered Mr and Mrs P for cancellation of any 
other holidays which they had booked and were due to take during the period of cover  or 
until 29 July 2020 if theyd gone ahead and cancelled the policy then. And Great Lakes 
covered the risk of Mr and Mrs P making any successful claims during that same period. 
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear the risk 
concerned  for however short amount of time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation rights were, I dont think its unfair for Great 
Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, had Mr and Mrs P decided to cancel the policy on 29 July 2020 due to Covid-19, 
Great Lakes would no longer have incurred any risk of any claim going forwards  especially 
as Mr and Mrs P had no other trips booked at the time. And based on the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, I think, it was fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to have offered them a pro-rata refund of the premium theyd 
paid for the policy from 29 July 2020 up the policy end date; 14 January 2021.
When considering whether Great Lakes shouldve offered a pro-rata monetary refund of the 
premium or by way of credit, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable to both 
parties.
As our investigator said, it was Mr and Mrs Ps decision to contact Great Lakes on 29 July 
2020 with the intention of cancelling the policy. I, of course, appreciate the reasons why they 
wanted to cancel the policy, but Mr and Mrs P had entered into a contract with Great Lakes. 
And theyd paid a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim 
occurring under the policy during the period of cover. Offering a refund by way of a credit 
means the risk Great Lakes had agreed to accept is simply moved to a future date.
Overall, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly by declining to offer a pro-rata monetary 
refund to Mr and Mrs P if theyd gone ahead and cancelled the policy on 29 July 2020. 
So, I think Great Lakes Refund Offer was a fair alternative to a monetary refund Mr and Mrs 
P sought in the circumstances of this case. I understand the reasons why they wouldve 
preferred a cash refund. However, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes refund offer, in the 
form of a voucher, are unreasonably restrictive.
The calculation of the credit
When calculating the policy premium Great Lakes doesnt distinguish between pre-travel 
cancellation and post-departure cover. Rather, the premium charged is split equally across 
the whole period of cover. 
As our investigator explained, an insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates 
policy premiums, considering factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment 
of the likelihood of claims arising and its own commercial interests. Thats if it treats each 
customer fairly when doing so.
Given Great Lakes explanation, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
prevalence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. Im also 
persuaded that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly, or any differently, to other 
customers in similar circumstances by calculating the premium in this way. The credit amount offered by Great Lakes on 29 July 2020 was calculated based on Mr and 
Mrs Ps unused period of standard travel insurance cover from that date to the end of the 
policy. The policy was intended to cover Mr and Mrs P for around 366 days, from 15 January 
2020 to 14 January 2021  and the premium they paid for the policy was representative of 
the period cover was in place for.
The value of the credit which Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs P on 29 July 2020 (£193.82) is 
equivalent to 170 unused days of cover from 29 July 2020 to the end of the policy; 
14 January 2021. This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wouldnt have been covering any 
further risk under the policy had it been cancelled on 29 July 2020. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt cancel the policy then; it continued until 14 January 2021. Theyve 
confirmed that it wasnt renewed. So, Great Lakes were still carrying the risk of a claim being 
made on the policy, had Mr and Mrs P booked a trip and / or had taken a trip after 29 July 
2020 and before the policy was due to end.
However, notwithstanding this, Great Lakes has confirmed to our Service that should Mr and 
Mrs P wish to accept one of the options set out as part of Great Lakes Refund Offer then it 
would still provide them with credit to the value of £193.82 to use towards one of the options.  
Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable. And if Mr and Mrs P would like to take up that offer, 
it should contact Great Lakes directly, and without delay.
I know Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help them to 
know that their complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman