DRN-2694653
The complaint
Miss M complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a curtailment claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy.
Miss Ms represented by Mr M.
What happened
Miss M was travelling on a multi-centre holiday. She was due to travel between 15 February 
and 4 June 2020. She travelled as planned to a country which Ill call N and was then due to 
fly to a country which Ill call P on 12 March 2020. However, shortly before she was due to 
fly, she learned that P was likely going to be placed into a lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. So Miss M chose not to take the flight. As it became clear that N was also going 
to go into lockdown, Miss M booked a flight to a country Ill call A. While she was in A, she 
stayed with family and friends. A short while later though, it became clear that As 
government intended to close its borders too. So Miss M decided to cut short her trip and 
she flew back to the UK on 20 March 2020. She made a claim to URV for the costs 
associated with cutting short her trip.
URV turned down Miss Ms claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy didnt cover 
Miss Ms circumstances. And while Miss M also had catastrophe cover under her policy, it 
said this only applied if Miss Ms original pre-booked accommodation suffered an outbreak of 
infectious disease.
Miss M was unhappy with URVs decision and so Mr M asked us to look into her complaint. 
Mr M felt that by opting not to fly to P, Miss M had taken reasonable steps to avoid becoming 
ill and to avoid becoming quarantined abroad.
Our senior investigator thought Miss Ms complaint should be partly upheld. She agreed that 
Miss M had taken reasonable steps to avoid illness and to avoid becoming stranded abroad. 
But she didnt think that Miss Ms situation was covered by the curtailment section of the 
policy. Thats because Miss M had chosen not to fly because of the likelihood of P becoming 
locked-down in the near future  she hadnt been quarantined in N. 
However, our senior investigator also considered the catastrophe cover provided by the 
policy. She didnt think the terms suggested that a policyholders pre-booked 
accommodation itself had had to have an outbreak of infectious disease in order for cover to 
apply. She considered that the only reason Miss M had chosen not to take her flight to P was 
because of the outbreak of Covid-19  an infectious disease. This meant Miss M hadnt been 
able to continue the rest of her trip as planned. On that basis, she felt the fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for URV to accept Miss Ms claim under the catastrophe 
section of the policy. She explained though that this section only provided cover for 
additional accommodation and travel expenses  not the cost of unused pre-booked travel or 
accommodation. So she explained this meant any settlement would be limited to the costs of 
Miss Ms flight from N to A. As she hadnt incurred any accommodation expenses during her 
stay in A, no payment for accommodation would be due. And she said that Miss Ms 
curtailment costs wouldnt be covered.
URV accepted our senior investigators recommendations. It agreed to accept Miss Ms 
claim under the catastrophe section of the policy.
Miss M and Mr M disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They said Miss M had had the 
choice of either curtailing her trip or being quarantined in P for at least six weeks. They didnt 
agree that Miss M hadnt been quarantined  if shed taken the flight to P, she wouldve 
been. They felt Miss M had mitigated URVs potential losses  both by avoiding being 
locked-down in P and by not staying in a hotel in A. They considered that URV had sought 
from the start to turn down Miss Ms claim. They didnt think URV had met its obligation to 
treat its customers fairly. They said that Miss M had bought the policy in good faith. They 
questioned whether it was fit for purpose. And they didnt feel that URV had considered Miss 
Ms claim as a whole.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think URVs offer to settle the cost of Miss Ms flight to N under the 
catastrophe section of the policy is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Miss M and Mr M that while Ive summarised their detailed 
submissions, Ive read and considered everything theyve said and sent us. In making my 
decision though, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues, so I havent 
responded to each point Miss M and Mr M have made.
As our investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making 
my decision, Ive thought about, amongst other things, the terms of Miss Ms policy and the 
circumstances of her claim to decide whether URV treated her fairly.
Ive first carefully considered the terms of Miss Ms policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with URV. Theres no dispute that Miss M cut short her planned trip and returned to 
the UK a few months early. So I think it was appropriate for URV to first assess her claim 
under the curtailment section of the policy. This provides cover in the following 
circumstances:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result of
pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
a) any person who you have arranged to stay with
b) your close relative
c) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person you are travelling or have arranged to travel with (which 
qualifies under current United Kingdom redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of 
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant).4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of
the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or
are called up for operational reasons, provided that the curtailment could not reasonably
have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking
any trip.
5.The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence,
fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether or not Miss Ms situation falls within any of these 
specific, listed scenarios. I appreciate Miss M and Mr M feel that if Miss M had taken the 
flight to P and continued with her trip, she wouldve been locked-down and effectively 
quarantined there. Its clear that P did go on to be placed in lockdown and that ultimately, N 
and A were also put under national restrictions. But its also clear that Miss M decided not to 
take the flight to P from N because she didnt want to be locked-down there. At that point, 
there were no restrictions in N and she wasnt quarantined or locked-down. So the reason 
Miss M cut short her trip wasnt due to any of the insured events covered by this section of 
the policy. This means I dont think I can fairly find that URV should treat Miss M as if she 
had been quarantined and settle her claim under the curtailment section of the policy.
Next, Ive turned to consider the catastrophe cover provided by the policy. This says:
We will pay you up to the amount as shown in the Schedule of benefits (£1,000) for
reasonable additional accommodation and transport costs incurred up to the standard 
of your original booking, if you need to move to other accommodation at any point during the
trip as a result of fire, flood, earthquake, volcanic eruption, explosion, tsunami, landslide,
avalanche, hurricane, storm or an outbreak of food poisoning or an infectious disease
meaning you cannot use your booked accommodation. (Bold is my emphasis).
Our senior investigator didnt think this term only specifically applied to a policyholders own 
pre-booked accommodation being affected by an infectious disease. She was satisfied that 
Miss M had had to change her travel and accommodation booking in P because of an 
infectious disease - Covid-19. So she thought the fair outcome was for URV to consider Miss 
Ms claim under this section of the policy. Im pleased that URV accepted our investigators 
recommendations on this point and I too think this is a fair outcome for the same reasons our 
investigator gave.
However, it is clear that this section will only cover additional accommodation and transport 
costs if a policyholder cant use their original pre-booked accommodation. It doesnt cover 
the costs associated with a policyholder cutting short their holiday. In this case, Miss M 
wasnt able to make use of her pre-booked accommodation in P and instead flew from N to 
A. So her additional travel costs are limited to the new flight she booked from N to A. URV 
has now agreed to settle Miss Ms claim for this specific flight. As Miss M stayed with friends 
and family in A, she didnt incur any accommodation costs there which URV is liable to pay.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Miss Ms position. Given the developing situation 
with Covid-19, I think she took a reasonable and sensible decision to return to the UK early. I 
think she had little choice but to do so and Im aware that shes taken steps to try and 
recover the costs of her cancelled flights directly from the applicable airlines. So I appreciate 
shes tried to mitigate her losses. But as Ive explained, I simply dont find that the 
curtailment section of Miss Ms policy covers her situation. And the catastrophe cover 
doesnt include the costs associated with cutting short her trip. So while I understand Miss M 
has been left significantly out of pocket for circumstances which were beyond her control; I think its fair for URV to limit its settlement to the cost of Miss Ms new flight from N to A, 
together with interest. This means Im not telling it to pay anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay the cost of Miss Ms flight from N to A on 14 
March 2020. It must also add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of claim until the date of settlement.
*If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman