DRN-2995705
The complaint
Mr M and Mr S complain about the advice they were given by TSB Bank plc when they took 
out additional borrowing. They say as a result of the advice they had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) when they re-mortgaged with another lender. Theyd like this 
refunded.
What happened
Mr M and Mr S had a mortgage with TSB. This had a fixed interest rate product which 
expired in March 2020. Mr M and Mr S took out additional borrowing in early 2019 with a 
five-year fixed interest rate product. They say TSB shouldnt have recommended this as they 
had to pay an ERC when they re-mortgaged in 2020. They say the products offered by TSB 
didnt have competitive rates and, in order to re-mortgage, they had to pay the ERC of about 
£1,000. Mr M and Mr S say if theyd known the impact this would have, they wouldnt have 
taken out further borrowing in 2019.
TSB said Mr M and Mr S hadnt told the mortgage adviser they intended to re-mortgage in a 
years time. If they had, his advice would have been different. It said the ERC was made 
clear in the mortgage offer. TSB offered compensation for poor service when dealing with 
Mr M and Mr Ss complaint. Mr M and Mr S didnt accept this and brought their complaint to 
us.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I didnt think it was fair and 
reasonable to require TSB to refund the ERC. My reasons were substantially as set out 
below. I didnt receive any further comments or evidence from the parties after sending my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In early 2019 Mr M and Mr Ss mortgage balance was about £187,000. They wanted to 
borrow another £22,000 to repay unsecured debts to reduce their monthly outgoings.
TSB said the borrowing was affordable and recommended a five-year fixed interest rate 
product. Its recommendation letter said this was because Mr M and Mr S had said they 
wanted their monthly payments to be stable for a specific period. They were concerned 
about interest rate rises reducing their disposable income. Mr M and Mr S wanted a product 
that didnt have a product fee. The recommendation letter says a product with an ERC was 
acceptable to Mr M and Mr S as they didnt intend to make any overpayments.
The fact find says Mr S and Mr M needed stability to allow them to budget. They wanted a 
minimum of five years as they saw no changes to their circumstances in that period. They 
wanted to be free of ERCs after this as they might be able to increase their mortgage 
budget.
There might have been some discussion of the existing mortgage as the fact find records the 
balance, the monthly payments and that it was to be retained. However, theres no evidence 
of a discussion about what Mr M and Mr S might do when the existing fixed rate product 
expired the following year, in particular whether they might want to re-mortgage with another 
lender.
The product recommended in early 2019 had an ERC. This started at 5% of the balance 
repaid and reduced by a percentage at the end of March each year. Mr M and Mr S repaid 
their mortgage on 11 March 2020 and paid an ERC of about £1,000.
Mr M and Mr S arent saying here that they didnt know the product they took out had an 
ERC. They say they didnt understand the impact this would have when their existing 
product expired  that theyd have to choose whether to pay the ERC or stay with TSB 
despite other lenders offering more competitive rates. They say if theyd known the impact of 
taking out the additional borrowing they wouldnt have taken it out at that time.
Mr M and Mr S took out the additional borrowing to repay unsecured debts. The fact find 
sets out the unsecured debts that were to be repaid. Together, these have a balance of 
£22,000 and stated monthly payments of £798. Over 12 months this would have totalled 
about £9,500. The monthly payments for the additional borrowing of £22,000 were £115, 
with a one-off payment of £180 for the first month. Over 12 months this totalled about 
£1,400.
By taking out the additional borrowing and repaying unsecured debts Mr M and Mr S would 
have reduced their monthly outgoings by about £680 and expected to reduce their debt 
payments by over £8,000 each year.
The parties dispute whether the mortgage adviser discussed the existing borrowing with 
Mr M and Mr S. Ive considered what Mr M and Mr S would likely have done if the mortgage 
adviser had said their existing product was due to expire in about a years time and asked 
them what they might do. Mr M and Mr S wouldnt have known in February 2019 whether, a 
year later, theyd be able to get better interest rates by re-mortgaging with a different lender. 
They did know that consolidating some of their unsecured debts would reduce their monthly 
debt payments. Mr M and Mr Ss stated aims were to reduce their outgoings and keep 
payments stable to protect their disposable income. Given the amount that their outgoings 
were reduced by consolidating their debts, on balance, I think its likely Mr M and Mr S would 
have gone ahead with the additional borrowing.
I think TSB made Mr M and Mr S aware of the ERC, in its recommendation letter and the 
mortgage offer. Mr M and Mr S accepted this when they took out the additional borrowing 
and the five-year product. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require 
TSB to refund the ERC.
TSB offered compensation for poor service when dealing with Mr M and Mr Ss complaint. 
As complaint handling isnt a regulated activity I wont look into that here. Ill leave it to Mr S 
and Mr M to decide whether to accept the compensation offered by TSB.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman