DRN-4290827
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly declined her 
claim.
What happened
Miss P has a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral. 
Whilst on holiday abroad, her bag was stolen and so she obtained a police report and made 
a claim on her policy.
Admiral declined the claim on the basis that her bag was unattended, based on what was 
contained in the police report. 
Miss P complained and unhappy with Admirals response, she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Admiral had unfairly relied on the 
policy report or declined the claim. 
Miss P disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy covers personal belongings which are lost or stolen but says: We will not pay any 
claim for unattended personal belongings.
The policy definition of unattended is:
Not in your full view, where you are not in a position to prevent your property being 
taken without your consent  unless it is locked safely in your personal 
accommodation, or in the secure area of a motor vehicle (locked and covered boot or 
locked luggage compartment. 
The translated police report says the bag may have been stolen when Miss P went to 
purchase something. And so Admiral says this means that its likely the bag would not have 
been in full view. Miss P says she never left her bag unattended and the police report is 
wrong. But there is no alternative evidence to show that the police report is incorrect or other 
evidence to show Miss P didnt leave her bag unattended. So for that reason, I dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable of Admiral to rely on the police report. 
Based on the above definition of unattended in the policy, I dont think Admiral unfairly 
declined this claim. 
Im sorry to hear of Miss Ps difficult personal circumstances which I have fully and carefully 
considered. But based on the available evidence and the police report, I dont think Admiral 
has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman