DRN-3090011
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complain that they didnt receive the full cash incentive 
they expected to when they switched their account from National Westminster Bank Plc to 
another bank. 
Mr H, an owner of S, brings the complaint on S behalf.
What happened
Mr H is the owner and director of several companies who banked with NatWest. In late 2020, 
Mr H received some communications from NatWest about a cash incentive that was 
available to certain eligible customers for moving their accounts to another bank.
In November 2020, Mr H called NatWest to ask for more information about the scheme. 
Following this call, he entered the details of one of his companies into the Business Banking 
Switch (BBS) website and received offers from three different banks.
In January 2021, S account with NatWest was closed and the account successfully switched 
to another bank. A cash incentive of £1,530 was paid into S new account. However, S was 
expecting to receive £4,200 so Mr H complained to NatWest.
NatWest explained the offer of £4,200 was only applicable to the account whose details Mr 
H had entered into the BBS website. They said not all business accounts were eligible to 
receive a cash incentive and for those that were, the amount payable was linked to the 
turnover of that specific business. They said S had received the correct payment based on 
their turnover.
Mr H was unhappy with this explanation, so he brought the complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter and said he didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. He said the scheme rules were applied fairly and the correct incentive was paid to S.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. Mr H said our investigator had missed the crux of the complaint which is that 
NatWest had provided misleading information about the switching scheme and how much of 
a cash incentive S was going to receive. He also said all communications about the 
switching scheme were non-company specific.
Mr H wants NatWest to pay the full incentive amount to S and recognise the time Mr H and 
his team have spent on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
Mr H called NatWest in November 2020. At the beginning of the call he provides the details 
for another of his companies which Ill refer to as Z. He enquires about the incentivised 
switching scheme for which he has been receiving marketing communications from 
NatWest. The staff member from NatWest carefully explains the details of the scheme, why 
it exists and how the scheme works. She tells Mr H that if he enters the account details into 
the BBS website, the offers available from the other banks will be displayed and if hes 
interested in any of the offers he can enter his details and a consent code will be sent to him. 
During the call, Mr H mentions that he has two other business accounts with NatWest in 
addition to Z who the call is about. He doesnt ask any questions about these accounts 
including whether they would be eligible for the scheme and he quickly moves on to another 
matter about the direct debit scheme he has in place on Zs account.
Having listened to this call, I am satisfied that all information provided by NatWest in this call 
was specific to Z.  
Following this call, Mr H enters the account details for Z into the BBS website. From the 
evidence available to me, I can see that the account details entered were for Z however the 
email address used was connected to another of Mr Hs businesses, which Ill refer to as U. 
Mr H receives an email to the account connected to U with offers from three another banks. 
Im satisfied that these offers were specific to Zs account turnover. The email address 
requested by NatWest was for communication purposes only so I cant say NatWest did 
anything wrong here. I would not expect their system to be able to identify that the email 
address Mr H provided was linked to another of his companies.
The information provided up to this point was only relevant to Zs account. When Mr H chose 
the bank he wanted to switch S account to, he followed the link to his preferred bank 
through the apply here button in the email with the offers available to Z. At that point, he was 
entering information into another banks system. This system is not linked to NatWests, so 
the new bank processed the switch based on the information Mr H then entered which was 
for S account. 
S account was eligible for the scheme, so the incentive payment was automatically 
calculated and paid by the other bank based on the information Mr H had entered about S 
account. They would not have been aware that Mr H originally entered the details for Z into 
the BBS website and was following a link sent as a result of that enquiry.
I appreciate Mr H says that this was not clear to him, but I dont agree that any of the 
information NatWest had provided was misleading. All communications and marketing 
material were for information purposes only up to the point when the switch commenced. 
The staff member Mr H spoke to in NatWest explained how to check for available offers and 
the details he entered up to that point were all for Zs account. So, I cant see that NatWest 
have misled Mr H in any way.
The BBS website provided information on eligibility and incentive payments available once 
the information for the correct account was input. However, I cant see that Mr H ever 
checked the eligibility or potential cash incentive for any of his accounts other than Z. 
Furthermore, there was a dedicated switching team available in NatWest to answer any 
further queries Mr H may have had before he proceeded to switch S account.  
Mr H was not required to switch any of his accounts, this was his decision and if he was 
unsure about the process, he couldve contacted NatWest or the other bank he wished to 
switch to before making any irreversible decisions.  I understand Mr H thinks the marketing material was misleading, but those leaflets were for 
information only and did not constitute an offer from any bank. The marketing literature 
stated that all applications were subject to status and eligibility and that all amounts shown 
were indicative only. As a result, I cant say that the information provided by NatWest in the 
marketing material for the scheme was misleading.
In conclusion, I can see that the incentive S was paid was calculated based on the 
information provided to the other bank by Mr H about it. The incentive received was correct 
for the turnover of S account and was paid in a timely manner. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that NatWest have treated S unfairly or unreasonably and Im satisfied that their 
literature was not misleading.
As a result, I wont be asking NatWest to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman