DRN-3539376
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Europ Assistance S.A. (EA) declined her travel insurance claim. My 
references to EA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs F booked a trip abroad through an online holiday provider. She says when she booked 
her tickets from the UK she bought a travel insurance policy and when she booked her 
return ticket to the UK she bought a second policy. Both policies were insured by EA.
Mrs F says her travel dates were originally from 22 June 2021 to 10 July 2021 but because 
of Covid-19 travel restrictions she couldnt travel in June. So she travelled on 4 July 2021 
intending to return 10 July 2021. 
While on the trip Mrs F injured her arm and went to hospital. She says she contacted EA 
asking for assistance as she wasnt able to return to the UK as planned as she couldnt carry 
her luggage until her hand was better. She complains that EA didnt offer medical or other 
financial assistance. Mrs F says she wasnt able to return to the UK for another three weeks, 
she spent an uncomfortable time in the hospital and accommodation and she was very 
distressed by the whole situation, particularly as she was travelling with a child. Mrs F also 
says she spent a lot of time trying to contact EA but the emails she sent to EA in the UK 
were redirected to representatives in other countries which was confusing.
Mrs F wants EA to pay the medical and additional expenses she incurred, which she says 
totals over £4,000. She also wants compensation for her time spent contacting EA and for 
her distress. She was concerned shed bought insurance from a business which wasnt 
allowed to sell policies in the UK.
EA said Mrs F had bought two policies, one policy was for travel from 22 June 2021 to 
10 July 2021 and the other was for travel from 4 July 2021 to 25 July 2021. On 17 June 2021 
Mrs F had asked for a refund for cancellation of the trip which it dealt with. On 19 July 2021 
she asked for a refund for cancellation for the second set of travel dates due to injury. EA 
said both policies covered trip cancellation only and as the hospital document showed Mrs F 
was already on her trip when she was injured there was no cover under the policy for the 
expenses she wanted to claim.
Mrs F complained to us. She said EA had ignored that she was still insured for the planned  
return flight to London on 10 July 2021 which she couldnt take so it should at least pay that 
cost. She referred to a decision wed made in another complaint where EA was the insurer 
where one of our ombudsmen had said if EA had been more proactive it could have 
improved the effectiveness of the emergency assistance provided. Mrs F said her case was 
worse as EA hadnt helped her at all.
Our investigator said EA fairly declined Mrs Fs claim. She explained that in the decision for 
the case Mrs F referred to the insurance policy provided additional cover such as medical 
expenses and/or cover for cutting short a trip, which Mrs Fs policy didnt provide.
Mrs F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Its for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover under a particular policy and the  
contract of insurance between Mrs F and EA is set out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy she bought. EA insures some other policies and the cover those policies provide can 
be different from the policy Mrs F bought. We make decisions of the individual 
circumstances of each complaint which includes what the complainants policy terms and 
conditions say. In the decision Mrs F referred to the policy terms were different to her policy.
The policy Mrs F bought is titled General conditions cancellation and says: 
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR:
The object of the cover is to reimburse You for the expenses You incurred directly 
due to the cancellation of the covered Travel product in case one of the following 
insured events occurs before the Travel starts, subject to the application of an 
exclusion and the limits mentioned in the Table of Guarantees.
The policy defines travel as:
A trip that takes place during the Period of insurance which begins when You leave 
home and ends when You get back home in Your home country
So the policy only covers cancellation of a trip before Mrs F begins the trip from her home in 
the UK. 
Theres no cover under Mrs Fs policy for her having to extend her trip (as happened) or any 
medical or other expenses she incurs during her trip.
I think the policy documents are clear about the cover EA provides under the policy Mrs F 
bought.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which sets out the key points of the 
policy says:
What is insured?
Cancellation: we will reimburse the cost of Your unused ticket and that of Your 
travelling companion (if they are insured and named on this policy), if you are forced 
to cancel before the beginning of Your Trip
The Demand and Needs statement says:
In accordance with policy terms and conditions, this insurance will provide You in the 
following coverage:
Travel Cancellation.
This insurance does not cover everything
And the policy says:Duration of the covers
If You purchased a Cancellation cover, You are covered from the start date of the 
Policy or when You book Your Trip (whichever is the later) until the Travel starts.
Ive also reviewed Mrs Fs insurance certificates, the same policy terms apply to both. The 
first one states Mrs F is insured by Europ Assistance travel Insurance Policy, since June 22, 
2021 to July 10, 2021. The second certificate states Mrs F is insured by Europ Assistance 
travel Insurance Policy, since July 4, 2021 to July 25, 2021. Both certificates are clear cover 
is for Cancellation expenses of trip not started. 
Im sorry Mrs F had a difficult time when she was abroad. But Mrs F had already started her 
trip from her home in the UK so the cancellation cover under both insurance certificates had 
ended. And theres no cover under the policy for the expenses she claimed. So Im satisfied 
that EA acted fairly and reasonably in declining the medical and additional expenses she 
incurred on her trip and the cost of her planned return flight which she didnt take. 
Mrs F says when she contacted EA in the UK she received responses from EAs 
representatives from outside the UK. Its for an insurer to decide how it wishes to set up its 
business processes, ensuring it complies with regulatory requirements. The reason EA didnt 
cover her claim wasnt because she had a policy that shouldnt have been sold in the UK, as 
Mrs F suggests. EA declined the claim because she wasnt covered for those expenses 
under the terms of the policy she bought.
Theres no basis for me to say EA has to pay any compensation to Mrs F for any her distress 
and inconvenience she had.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman