DRN-1149991
The complaint
Mr F complains that he received an email from Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) that 
he didn't sign up to receive. He says this email severely compromised his confidentiality.
What happened
On 9 July 2019 Mr F received an email from Nationwides Savings Watch service. The email 
was an Annual Savings Summary that listed the interest rates and names of the savings 
products Mr F had with Nationwide. It also included Mr Fs postcode. The email set out 
various options for saving with Nationwide, and included information about alternative 
savings accounts.
The purpose of the Savings Watch service is to alert customers to changes that could affect 
or benefit them, and to give them an opportunity to review their options for saving with 
Nationwide. Significantly, the service is one that eligible customers can register for if they 
wish, rather than something that is universal to all Nationwide customers.
Mr F was unhappy to receive the email. He said he hadn't at any time signed up for this. So, 
he complained to Nationwide.
Initially, Nationwide said Mr F had signed up for the service on 26 February 2019. As this 
date coincided with a visit Mr F had made to a branch, they said he must have signed up in 
branch. They said the adviser would have gone through everything because, Savings 
Watch isn't something we are able to opt members in for without a discussion and 
confirmation.
Mr F spoke to the branch manager and then challenged Nationwides response. He said the 
branch manager had acknowledged that Mr F was already clued-up with regard to savings 
options, and hadn't been signed up for Savings Watch in branch. Nationwide agreed to 
review his complaint.
In their second response Nationwide explained that Mr F had been signed up for the service 
several years ago, but opted out due to a technical error in July 2017. This technical error 
was corrected in February 2019 and so Mr F had been opted back in on 26 February 2019. 
Nationwide also said that the content of the Savings Watch email had been carefully chosen 
to ensure that it didn't compromise customers information or security.
Nationwide offered Mr F £50 as an apology for incorrectly saying that his visit to branch 
explained how hed been signed up.
When Mr F approached our service he said that Nationwide had fabricated an explanation 
for how hed been signed up, and that the email itself had been a breach of data protection 
law. He said he was seeking at least £250 compensation, and an apology from Nationwides 
Chief Executive.
Our investigators viewOur investigator didn't uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said the email hadn't compromised 
Mr Fs data, as it was sent to and received by him. He also explained hed seen records from 
Nationwide which showed Mr F had first been opted in to Savings Watch in February 2016, 
opted out in July 2017, and opted in again in February 2019. Although Nationwide 
couldn't provide any information about how Mr F had originally been signed up for the 
service, he didn't think Nationwide had acted unfairly in February 2019 by correcting the 
technical error that had opted him out.
Overall, he found that Mr F had provided Nationwide with his email address, and Nationwide 
hadn't made any significant errors by sending him the email they did. He said the £50 
compensation already offered was fair.
Mr Fs response
Mr F didn't accept the investigators findings. He said Nationwide had made false 
assertions as he had never agreed to receive Savings Watch emails. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly about his complaint, and he rejects any suggestion that he 
ever knowingly signed up for Nationwides Savings Watch service. But from the evidence 
Ive seen Im satisfied Mr F was originally opted in for Savings Watch on 17 February 2016.
The evidence also corroborates Nationwides explanation that there was a technical problem 
with the marketing teams system in 2017 which caused some opted in customers to be 
excluded from the Savings Watch service. This happened when they opted out of receiving 
marketing emails more generally, and was realised in 2019. An IT service request was made 
on 25 February 2019 to return customers to the position theyd been in before the technical 
problem. This was actioned between 25  28 February 2019 and resulted in Mr F being 
opted back in on 26 February 2019. His visit to a branch of Nationwide on that date was not 
the reason for this change.
Nationwide have been unable to provide any evidence about how Mr F became opted in in 
2016, so its difficult to assess whether it more likely than not happened with Mr Fs 
knowledge. I accept that he was genuinely surprised by, and didn't expect, the email he 
received in July 2019. But I dont think that means he didn't sign up for the service in 2016. 
The email would have been unexpected and unfamiliar because by that point hed been 
opted out for more than a year and a half. And it was the first Annual Savings Summary hed 
been sent  that feature of the Savings Watch service didn't begin until 2019.
Now Nationwide are aware he doesn't want this service, Mr F has been opted out and 
shouldn't receive any further emails about it. Although I cant say for sure that Mr F 
knowingly signed up in the first place, I wouldn't expect Nationwide to do any more now than 
respect his current wish to be opted out.Turning to Mr Fs complaint about the content of the email and the security of his personal 
data, Ive seen that the email was sent by Nationwide to an email address provided by Mr F, 
and Mr F received it. There is no suggestion or evidence that Nationwide sent the email to 
any third parties. So I dont think theres been any disclosure of personal data here, or that 
Nationwide have handled Mr Fs personal information improperly.
The email also included limited personal data (his title, surname, and postcode). And it only 
listed the product names of the four savings accounts he held with Nationwide at the time. 
The email didn't include account numbers or balances. Overall, I dont agree that by sending 
this information to Mr F Nationwide severely compromised Mr Fs confidentiality.
Mr Fs strength of feeling about whats happened is clear, and he has provided very detailed 
submissions to support his case. But while I appreciate the frustration and annoyance Mr F 
has felt at receiving this unwanted Savings Summary, Im not upholding his complaint or 
asking Nationwide to do any more.
I think the £50 already offered is fair compensation for the error Nationwide made during the 
handling of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman