DRN-4275903
The complaint
Miss W complains about end of contract charges when her lease agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss W was supplied with a car and entered into a lease agreement with 
MBFS.
When the agreement ended, the car was inspected. MBFS asked Miss W to pay charges for 
damage which it said went beyond acceptable wear and tear and for extra days hire.
Miss W disputed the charges. She said that when the vehicle was inspected at handover, 
the inspector hadnt identified any damage. However, following a second inspection at the 
compound, several items of damage were identified which came to over £4000 in charges. 
Miss W says that these charges were reduced to just under £2000 following her complaint, 
but she still disputes the charges. 
In response to Miss Ws complaint, MBFS said the charges had been correctly applied. Miss 
W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. They reviewed the inspection report and said 
they were satisfied that all of the damage exceeded the fair wear and tear guidance, with the 
exception of the damage to the LHR door speaker. The investigator said that the charge for 
the speaker should be removed. 
MBFS didnt agree. It said there was a crack through the centre of the speaker grille which 
meant that it couldnt be repaired.
Miss W didnt agree either. She said she didnt agree with the charges for the extra days hire 
because she had agreed with MBGS that there wouldnt be a charge for this. She also said 
she thought the damage to the car had happened after the handover inspection and on the 
journey to the compound. She said the first inspection had been carried out in daylight and 
any damage wouldve bene visible to the inspector.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that the complaint should be partially 
upheld. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly and in less details that the investigator. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here  is 
it fair and reasonable for MBFS to ask Miss W to pay for damage charges and extra days 
hire.
If theres something I havent mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
point but only those which I think are key to me reaching what I think is a fair resolution. The 
rules of this service allow me to do this.
The crux of this complaint is whether the charges Miss W is being asked to pay are fair and 
reasonable.
Ive reviewed the lease agreement. This says that when the car is returned it must meet 
MBFSs vehicle standards. Full details of these are set out in the agreement. The agreement 
also says that Miss W will have to pay charges if she returned the car with damage which 
exceeded the vehicle returns standards. 
Miss W agreed to these terms and conditions when she signed the agreement. So, Im 
satisfied that MBFS was allowed to charge Miss W for any damage which fell outside of the 
vehicle returned standards.
Ive gone on to consider whether the damage being charged for exceeds that which is 
allowed by the vehicle returned standards. Ive looked at the inspection report and the 
photos. Im satisfied that all of the damage  with the exception of the speaker  exceeds the 
allowable damage set out in the vehicle returns standards. So, Im satisfied that its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge for the damage. 
In relation to the damage to the speaker, Ive taken account of what MBFS has said about 
the grille being cracked. Ive looked at the photo but I dont think it shows a crack, so Im not 
persuaded that the charge has been fairly applied.
Im not going to comment on every item of damage because the investigator has already 
done so in detail. However, I would like to address the point made by Miss W about the 
damage happening after the car was collected from her. I think this is unlikely for two 
reasons. Firstly, the collection agents have specifically confirmed that no damage was 
incurred post collection. Secondly, the extent of the damage affects the whole vehicle and 
not just one area. Its more likely that this widespread damage occurred whilst the car was in 
Miss Ws possession.
I appreciate that Miss W has said that no damage was noted on the handover inspection. 
However, the initial inspection is to look at the general condition of the car rather than the 
more detailed inspection which is carried out at the compound.
Ive also thought about the extra days hire charges. Miss W has said that it was agreed with 
MBFS that there would be no charge. Shes explained that one of the days was a bank 
holiday and that after this she was unwell.
The agreement started on 19 December 2019 and ended on 19 September 2022. The 
agreement says that if Miss W fails to return the car at the end of agreement, additional hire 
charges will be calculated pro rata up to and including the day when the car is returned.
I can see that collection was agreed for 27 September. This is after the end date of the 
agreement, so Miss W had possession and use of the car for this extra time. Im satisfied 
that the extra days charges have been applied in line with the terms and conditions. I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that MBFS agreed not to charge for these extra days. I 
appreciate that the collection date may have changed due to Miss W being unwell but I 
havent seen any medical evidence to support this, so Im not persuaded that theres any 
basis to ask MBFS to remove these charges.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that Miss Ws car was returned to MBFS with damage which exceeded the vehicle returns standards and 
that the charges for damage  with the exception of the speaker as Ive explained above  
have been fairly applied.
Putting things right
To put things right, MBFS must refund the charges for the LHR speaker.
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint. Mercedes  Benz Financial Services Limited must refund the 
charge for the speaker in the sum of £50.40.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman