DRN-3078213
The complaint
Miss P complains about a loan provided to her by Bamboo Limited Bamboo, which she 
says was unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Miss P with a loan of £4000 in March 2019. The loan was to be repaid 
over 60 monthly repayments of £176.05. If Miss P made each payment when it was due, 
shed pay £10,563 in total. Miss P has to date, not repaid this loan.
Bamboo said that Miss P had declared her income as £1,196.00 but it verified that she 
received a monthly income of £1061.89. Bamboo also carried out a credit file search and 
checked through a bank statement covering a month between December 2018 and 
January 2019. Bamboo concluded through its searches, that Miss P had enough 
disposable income to afford the contractual repayments.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Bamboo gathered some information from Miss P about her income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It asked Miss P for a months worth of her 
bank statements. It also carried out a credit check.
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how Bamboo asked about Miss Ps financial 
circumstances by checking her credit file and looking through a bank statement. But Im 
not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 60 months and Bamboo needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of time;
Bamboos analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Miss Ps 
declared income;
There was some adverse information on Miss Ps credit search.
For the above reasons, I consider Bamboos checks should have included a full review of 
Miss Ps financial circumstances, including further verification of her income and 
expenditure so it could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable. This could have 
involved looking into Miss Ps finances over a longer period than a month.
I need to think about what Bamboo would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Our investigator has recently asked Miss P to provide her bank statements from 
around the time she applied for the loan, for a longer period than the month that was 
checked at the time the loan was granted. Im not suggesting here that this is the check 
that Bamboo should have done. But I think looking at her bank statements over a longer 
period such as three months would give me the best picture of what the lender should 
have seen.
Miss P has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and 
around when she took out the loan though, other than what was provided to Bamboo at the 
time. So, I havent been able to see what Bamboo would have most likely seen if it had 
carried out further checks. So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Miss P 
was given a loan that was unaffordable for her. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im currently not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Bamboo responded on 3 September 2021 and said it had no 
further comments to make. Miss P responded on 28 September 2021 and said the 
statement she had is the one sent to Bamboo to get the loan. She says this is the 
statement Bamboo would have seen prior to giving her the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bamboo has not made any further points. Miss P has reiterated that the only statement she 
has is the one she submitted to Bamboo to obtain the loan. I concluded in my provisional 
decision that Bamboo should have carried out further checks. I felt it should have gathered 
more than the statement that Miss P submitted. So, I asked Miss P if she had more 
information than the statement she initially submitted, to check what it would have shown 
and whether the loan was affordable or not for her. 
I agree with our investigator, when they concluded that based on the one statement that 
Bamboo checked, the loan would have seemed affordable for Miss P. But again, I felt after 
looking at Miss Ps complaint, that Bamboo should have carried out further checks. But as 
no further information has been provided, I havent been able to see what further checks 
would have uncovered. 
So as no further information has been provided or new points have been raised, if follows 
that I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman