DRN-3315234
The complaint
Mr C complains about a hire purchase agreement provided by Volkswagen Financial
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). He says he was unfairly charged more for the car supplied
under the agreement because he crashed a courtesy car.
What happened
Mr C says he went to a dealer Ill refer to as D to discuss getting a car. Mr C says he
agreed to acquire a used model, but it wasnt immediately available and he was told he 
would have to wait a couple of days to pick it up.
D agreed to lend Mr C a courtesy car until he collected his car, but then unfortunately Mr C
was involved in an accident in the courtesy car. When he returned to D, he says the cost of
the car he had agreed to take had increased, which he believes was to cover the cost of the
accident. Mr C then acquired the car using a hire purchase agreement with VWFS.
Mr C complained to VWFS. It issued its final response in January 2020. This said, in
summary, that it thought D should deal with Mr Cs complaint and it gave him Ds contact
details along with a referral to our service.
Mr C then brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy with the price of the car increasing.
He said he wasnt aware additional products had been added to the agreement. He said
incorrect details had been recorded on his finance agreement. He said he didnt think he was
insured to drive the courtesy car. And he said the APR on the agreement had increased.
VWFS told us the car had increased in price but it didnt think this was to do with the
accident. It said this was a VAT issue instead.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining he thought the complaint should be upheld. He
said, in summary, that he hadnt seen a reasonable explanation for the cost of the car
increasing and so thought this was unfair. He asked VWFS to restructure the agreement to
reflect the lower price of the car.
VWFS was unhappy with this. It said, in summary, that there was no evidence to support
what Mr C said. It said the difference in the price of the car was due to VAT. And it said there
was no issue with Mr C affording the agreement.
The case was then passed to me for a decision. I sent Mr C and VWFS a provisional 
decision on 21 January 2022 explaining I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The 
findings from this decision were as follows:
Mr C complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts
like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr Cs complaint against
VWFS.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S56) is relevant to this
complaint. This explains that, under certain circumstances, a finance provider is liable for
what is said by a credit broker before a consumer enters into an agreement.
Im satisfied here that S56 means VWFS are responsible for what Mr C was told by D before
he signed his hire purchase agreement. So, Ill consider if Mr C was misled or given incorrect
information.
Ive seen copies of two Vehicle Order Forms for Mr Cs car. One is dated 2 February 2019
and the Vehicle Basic Price is listed as £8,715. Mr C says the accident took place on 3
February 2019. And Ive seen a second order form from 4 February 2019 with the Vehicle
Basic Price of £9,715.
So, Im satisfied that the cash price of the car increased between Mr C initially discussing it
with D and when he signed the credit agreement. And, it isnt in dispute that Mr C was 
involved in an accident in Ds courtesy car.
Ive thought about VWFSs explanation here. It said:
When (D) initially provided the invoice from the sale of the vehicle, items which cannot
have VAT applied were included in the invoice. When this was reviewed by our 
Underwriters, it was identified the loan to value was to (sic) high and therefore a request was
sent to (D) to review the invoice and ensure the VAT was correct.
A new invoice was sent, which did not include those items which could not have VAT
applied.
Ive thought about this. But this explanation doesnt make sense to me. The loan to value
requested didnt change, as it appears Mr C was due to pay no deposit. And the only thing
that changed on the order forms was the Vehicle basic price and subsequent total.
I do note however that, while I appreciate its attempt to explain things, VWFS also explained
the staff working at D at the time had left, so it was difficult to find out from Ds side what
happened. And our service has also attempted to get further details from D without much
response.
So, Ive gone on to consider what Mr C says he thinks happened. He believes the cost of
repairing the car was added to the finance. But, I dont think this is most likely either. This is
because D has said the cost of the repairs was over £3,000. From the very brief footage Ive
seen of the accident this seems reasonable. And I think on balance £1,000 is too round a
figure to accurately reflect any cost of repairs.
So, in summary, I dont know why the cost of the car increased. I do think its entirely
possible that any goodwill Mr C had with D was lost when he crashed its car. And I can see
why this would lead to him, for example, losing a deal that had been agreed and so to D
deciding to increase the price of the car it was selling him. But, I dont actually think this is
the key thing to consider here. What I need to consider, taking into account S56, is whether
D misled Mr C about the cost of the car or forced him to take it. And I dont think it did.
Mr C himself has said he was aware of the increase in cost. He has signed the second
vehicle order form on 4 February which clearly says the cash price of the car is £9,715. The
credit agreement, which Mr C also signed on 4 February, shows the vehicle price as £10,663
 which is the total on the road price from the second vehicle order form signed on the
same day.
Ive also considered that the first vehicle order form doesnt appear to have any commitment
to go ahead with the acquisition of the car or to take any credit. It appears Mr C onlycommitted to take the car after the price increased. I note, importantly, that I havent seen
anything to suggest Mr C couldnt have just walked away from the proposed deal following
the accident without paying anything.
Thinking about all of this, regardless of the reason for the cost of the car increasing  and
including if it was because of the accident - I havent seen enough on balance to make me
think Mr C was misled about the finance or the price of the car, was given incorrect
information or was forced into taking the agreement or car. It follows I dont think VWFS
need to take any action on this point.
Mr C complains he didnt know extras were added to the agreement. I can see Mr C took
two insurance products and a warranty. These were listed on the vehicle order form and the
cost can be seen. And, Mr C sent in paperwork from the time that shows a confirmation of
the warranty cover and a quote for the insurance. So, I think on balance its most likely he
was aware of these products.
Mr C complained that the interest rate was increased when he took the second deal. I
understand he later said he didnt want to pursue this point, but I think its worth pointing out I
havent seen anything to suggest Mr C signed a different credit agreement with a different
interest rate.
Ive considered what Mr C said about the fact that on the agreement he is listed as being
employed for a year, when he was actually employed for three months. I dont know what
happened here, but Mr C has told us he can afford the agreement and this doesnt appear to
have had any affect on him. So, Im not going to consider this further.
I understand Mr C believes he may have been uninsured to drive the courtesy car he was
given and wasnt asked to sign anything at the time. I cant see that, even if this was the
case, that this has had an impact on Mr C. But, either way, Im satisfied that this falls outside
of what I can consider VWFS responsible for under S56, so I wont consider this further.
Id like to assure Mr C that Ive carefully considered everything else hes told us in relation to
this complaint. But, having done so, I still dont think it should be upheld.
I gave both parties until 4 February 2022 to come back with any further evidence or 
comments. 
VWFS responded and said it accepted the decision. Mr C came back and said he was very 
unhappy with the decision as he felt he had proven all of his points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive very carefully thought about what Mr C said in response to my provisional decision. And 
Ive reviewed all of the information on the case again. But, having done so, I still think this 
complaint should not be upheld. This is for the same reasons that I explained in my 
provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman