DRN-4307191
The complaint
Mr K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) are holding him liable 
for an overdraft debt which he says was taken out fraudulently in his name.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In late 2016, a NatWest current account was opened in branch in Mr Ks name, using his 
passport and proof of address. The overdraft was maxed out and the account defaulted.
Mr K disputed the debt in 2017 and 2018. He raised this again in 2023, and NatWest issued 
their final response. NatWest held Mr K liable for the overdraft on the basis that it was taken 
out using his passport and hed had some fraud markers registered against him.
Mr K came to our service. He explained that his passport and proof of address documents 
were stolen by a friend whod been staying with him. The friend looked similar enough to him 
that they could impersonate him in branch. Theyd opened other accounts in his name, and 
he showed that other businesses had accepted this was a case of ID theft. He noticed things 
were wrong when a family member overheard his friend refer to themselves as Mr K on the 
phone. When Mr K checked his friends belongings, he found his passport. The friend left 
and cut contact, and Mr K reported them to the police.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr K and NatWest a provisional decision on 8 August 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be mostly upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I understand NatWest thought that Mr K complained too late, which would mean that 
the complaint was outside of our jurisdiction. However, I can see from Mr K and NatWests 
correspondence that this matter was raised in 2017, and Mr Ks notes evidence that he 
expressed his dissatisfaction at the time. NatWests own records show that an ID theft case 
was raised in 2018. I think its most likely that Mr K did complain within the 6 years he 
needed to. I can also see that he referred the matter to us within 6 months of NatWests final 
response. So I find that this complaint was brought in time.
I need to consider whether NatWest are entitled to hold Mr K liable for this overdraft. Broadly 
speaking, the onus is on NatWest to show that they are.
This case is finely balanced. On the one hand, I understand why NatWest  and our own 
investigator  found that Mr K should be liable for the debt. It was taken out in branch using 
Mr Ks passport, by someone who the branch staff confirmed looked like Mr Ks passport 
photo. And NatWest spoke to another bank who also had a current account opened in 
Mr Ks name at the time, who said that they didnt have any ID theft concerns and that Mr K 
used to have some fraud markers registered against him  though those are not showing, 
possibly due to the time thats passed.
On the other hand, I have substantial concerns that this current account application was not 
genuine. For example:
The phone number provided is not Mr Ks, and public records show that it is actually 
the number for the friend who Mr K accused.
The email address provided is not one Mr K used in any of his historic 
correspondence and does not appear to be his.
There is a clear and plausible point of compromise for Mr Ks documents and 
personal details.
While signatures can and do vary, the signature on the application bears little 
resemblance to genuine examples of Mr Ks signature and appears to be false.
The handwriting on the NatWest application is very similar to the handwriting on the 
friends public documents.
While one business did not have ID theft concerns, Mr K has shown that other 
businesses involved accepted that hed been the victim of ID theft, and some even 
registered that he was a victim of impersonation on the national fraud database.
The way the account was used is consistent with what Id expect if it was opened 
fraudulently using ID theft.
Mr K has been consistent in his testimony and reported the matter to the police.
While I accept that NatWest were told Mr K had fraud markers against him, this was 
the recollection of a staff member from another bank. Ive not been given anything to 
substantiate that these markers existed or why they were added; they were a type of 
marker that is normally for a different matter than the matter being decided in this 
case; and I can see that in fact some of the businesses involved actually registered 
markers confirming that Mr K was a victim of fraud rather than a perpetrator  so 
I cant rule out that there was some sort of mix up or miscommunication there.
So while I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in holding Mr K liable for the debt, taking 
into account everything thats been said and provided so far I dont think they have the 
balance of evidence needed to continue holding him liable. Im not satisfied that Mr K 
opened this account, and it looks likely that it was opened by someone else. It follows that 
I currently think NatWest should no longer pursue Mr K for this debt.
Mr K asked for compensation, and Ive thought carefully about this too. But Id normally only 
award compensation if I found that the business had got things substantially wrong. Here, 
Ive found that NatWest had good grounds to open this account and to hold Mr K liable for it, 
even if I ended up disagreeing with them overall. Indeed, Im very much conscious that its 
possible Mr K did take out this account or work together with his friend. Further, its the 
fraudster who was primarily responsible for the fraud and for the distress Mr K suffered here, 
rather than NatWest  who were also victim to the fraud and also lost out. And while the 
case has taken a long time to come to us, thats mainly because Mr K chose not to bring it to 
us until 2023. I do also acknowledge that NatWest had a 1-letter typo in one of their letters, 
but I dont find that to be of any real significance. And its worth bearing in mind that were 
here to resolve complaints informally, not to issue fines or punish businesses.So while I do understand Mr Ks position, I do not intend to award compensation here. I think 
the best thing is for NatWest to now disassociate him from this account.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides replied, and Ill talk 
about what they said below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest reiterated why theyd previously raised jurisdiction issues  because of all the time 
thats passed. Its not clear whether they still object to us considering the case, or whether 
they were just giving more context to their prior position. So just to be on the safe side, Ill 
reiterate that Ive found this complaint to be in our jurisdiction as the evidence suggests that 
Mr K expressed his dissatisfaction by 2018, and that he brought the matter to us within 6 
months of NatWests final response.
Mr K felt that NatWest must not have investigated things, since if I found the loan to most 
likely be fraudulent then he felt they should have too. He felt NatWest didnt have reasonable 
grounds to believe the account was his. However, I can see that NatWest did investigate. 
And as I explained in my provisional decision, I can see why NatWest  and our own 
investigator  thought Mr K was liable for the account. It was taken out in person using 
Mr Ks genuine passport and proof of address, by someone who the branch staff confirmed 
matched his passport photo. The other bank NatWest spoke to also thought Mr K had 
applied for their account, and they also warned NatWest that Mr K had committed fraud 
elsewhere. I also have not ruled out the possibility that Mr K really did take out this account, 
such as by working with his friend. I still find that NatWest had reasonable grounds to believe 
this was Mr Ks debt  even if I have ended up disagreeing with them on balance.
Mr K argued that he was too successful to have a reason to commit fraud. But while I can 
understand his argument, successful people can and do commit fraud, so I dont find this 
argument compelling. Mr K also asked me to consider character references. But this 
decision is not a judgement of Mr Ks  or anyone elses  character. I am impartial and dont 
make my conclusions based on personal interpretations of peoples character. I am also 
unsure what difference it would make for me to consider Mr Ks character references when 
Ive already agreed with him that the account probably wasnt his.
Mr K said NatWest passed him around and wouldnt deal with him. This isnt reflected in the 
records which either side have provided, though I accept records may be limited due to the 
time thats passed. But Ive not found that NatWest ignored Mr K. As far as I can see, things 
took as long as they did primarily because Mr K didnt pursue the matter further until 2023.
Similarly, Mr K said this had affected him for years, hed been denied a particular credit 
facility in 2022, and we were letting NatWest get away with things. But as I set out before, 
the delay seems to have mostly been down to Mr K, were not the regulator and are not here 
to fine or punish businesses, the fraudster is the party mainly responsible for the fraud being 
committed, and I find that NatWest had reasonable grounds to think this might have been 
Mr Ks account. So while I do understand where Mr K is coming from, and while I understand 
this may come as a disappointment to him, I do not think it would be fair to award further 
compensation in this case.Lastly, NatWest have explained that the account involved is closed, it is no longer linked to 
Mr K, theyre not pursuing Mr K for it, and it should no longer be reporting on his credit file as 
its been over six years since the default. So hopefully that will give Mr K some reassurance 
that he will no longer have to deal with this account.
Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Take this account out of Mr Ks name and disassociate him from it, if it has not done 
so already;
Make sure that Mr K is no longer pursued for this account; and-
Remove any record of this account from Mr Ks credit file, if any remains.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way I set out above. I dont make any further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman