DRN-4390771
The complaint
Mr H complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Advantage cancelled Mr Hs telematics policy with them because they were not receiving 
driving data about his car, and he hadnt responded to the two communications theyd had 
sent him about that. Mr H said he hadnt received them and the first he heard of the 
cancellation was the cancellation letter email. By then it was too late to  prevent it. He said 
he had to take out new insurance with another insurer in a hurry just before Christmas and 
without having been able to budget for it. It was also more expensive because hed had to 
declare Advantages cancellation. 
He wanted Advantage to apologise for Mr H not receiving the emails, delete the record of 
cancellation, and compensate him for the extra payment he had to make the new insurer. He 
also felt that Advantage had implied to him that he could choose not to disclose the 
cancellation in future, and he felt this was unethical and they should explain themselves. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Advantage had acted reasonably and in line with Mr Hs policy terms. Mr H remained 
dissatisfied and so Ive been asked to decide. Mr Hs father dealt with the complaint on his 
behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Hs policy and it says on pages 46 and 47 that Advantage have the right to 
cancel the policy at any time by sending him seven days' written notice to the last postal or 
email address on their system, stating why the policy has been cancelled. The reasons for 
cancellation include that the policyholder shared an insufficient amount of driving data with 
them. Most policies we see allow an insurer to cancel a policy with at least seven days 
notice in writing and we think thats fair and reasonable.  
Advantage cancelled his policy on 22 December and sent him an email and letter confirming 
that. He phoned them about it that day. He said that was the first hed heard about it, and it 
was completely out of the blue. He felt that Advantage should have called him about it first 
and made sure that hed got their letters and emails before cancelling. 
Advantage showed us copies of their communications with him before they cancelled the 
policy. On 24 November 2022 they wrote and emailed saying that he hadn't sent them any 
driving data in a while so they were checking if all was OK, and he could contact them if he 
needed help. On 8 December 2022 they wrote and emailed again saying there was a 
problem with his driving data, and theyd have to cancel his policy on 22 December 2022 if 
he didnt fix the problem or get in touch with them about it. When they didnt hear from him 
they wrote and emailed confirming the cancellation on 22 December. Mr H says he didnt 
receive the 24 November and 8 December communications and I dont question that. But 
Advantage have shown us copies of them and I see that that theyre correctly addressed and 
the email they have for him is correct. Advantage have also shown us evidence from their 
systems showing they were sent when Advantage said they were. 
Mr H thinks that Advantage should have phoned him or otherwise checked with him before 
they cancelled his policy. He also thought that even if Advantage had sent the 
communications, they should have given him the benefit of the doubt that he hadnt received 
them, and reconsider and help him when he did get in touch. But though I appreciate that 
this situation would have been distressing for Mr H, its not our role to stipulate that insurers 
should do these things, or to require what method of contact they should use. Thats a 
matter for their commercial judgement, in which we dont get involved. We think that as long 
as an insurer uses two different methods of contact before cancelling thats fair, and 
Advantage have shown they did that.
I do think that Mr H has found himself in an unfortunate situation, and I understand that he is 
upset. But what Im deciding is whether Advantage did anything wrong, and its not their fault 
if communications they sent were not received. I think that Advantage did all they needed to 
do to inform Mr H that the policy would end if he didnt contact them, and so I dont require 
them to do any more.
And though Mr H felt that Advantage implied to him that he neednt disclose the cancellation 
in future, I dont interpret Advantages phrasing in that way, and I havent seen anything else 
from Advantage which would suggest thats what Advantage meant. So I dont require them 
to do anything in that regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
