DRN-2372742
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided him with incorrect 
information when he purchased an annuity in November 2017. He says that Aviva should 
honour the terms of the original agreement, and that seeking to change those terms some 
18 months later is unfair.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in October 2020. Both parties 
have received, and commented on, that decision but for ease I will reproduce an extract of 
my provisional findings below. I said;
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the 
submissions that have been made by Mr J and by Aviva. Where the evidence is 
unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or 
should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something 
has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem 
hadnt occurred.
Here Aviva accepts that some of the information, and quotations, that it gave to Mr J 
in 2017 was incorrect. But I think I do need to explore in a little more detail how 
reasonable it was for Mr J to rely on that information.
Mr J was being assisted in taking his pension income by a firm of financial advisors. 
I think it was clear to that firm that there were problems with the quotations that Aviva 
was providing. Mr J has provided us with recordings of at least two calls his advisor 
made to query the quotations that Aviva had provided since they appeared to be 
incorrect. But each time, although acknowledging there was a problem, Aviva issued 
new, but still incorrect, quotations.
I can accept that there must come a point where Mr J accepts the quotation from 
Aviva. But I think, at the very least, his advisor knew the quotation remained 
incorrect. It is very rare to see an annuity with an annual escalation as high as 9.5%. 
And even less common to see an annuity with that level of escalation providing an 
identical level of income to an annuity with an escalation of just 5%. So whilst 
I entirely accept that the financial advisor took reasonable steps to make Aviva aware 
of the error, I dont think it can ever reasonably argue that it truly believed the 
quotation Mr J accepted was correct.
I have not said the above to criticise the actions of Mr Js financial advisor. But the 
significant difference between the quotation that Mr J accepted, and what Aviva says 
should have been provided must influence my decision. Aviva has given us two 
comparisons.
The first comparison is as I have set out earlier. Mr Js annuity gave him a starting 
income of around £5,700 per annum. The correct quotation would see that income be 
increased by 5% each year. So broadly speaking, after just 10 years, Mr Js income 
from the incorrect quotation, with a 9.5% escalation, would be around 50% greater 
than with the correct 5% escalation. And as time went on, that difference would grow 
at an increasing rate. The income would be doubled after around 17 years, and more 
than three times as great after 27 years. 
Alternatively Aviva has provided information about the annuity Mr J should have 
received with a much higher escalation  however Aviva has also told us that the 
maximum escalation it offers is just 8.5%. If Mr J had been given a correct quotation, 
Aviva tells us that the starting income would have been around 25% of the amount 
being paid to Mr J.
In deciding this complaint I am not tasked with deciding whether Aviva did something 
wrong. Aviva accepts that the quotations it provided to Mr J were incorrect. What 
I need to decide here is what is the fair and reasonable way to put things right.
As I said earlier, my starting point for deciding that question would be to consider the 
position Mr J would have been in, if nothing had gone wrong. But, as Mr J has 
pointed out to us, the decisions he took at the time were not just in relation to his 
annuity. He also made decisions about his retirement, and the future income he 
would take from his family business as time goes on. Mr J tells us that those 
decisions cannot be easily reversed, and to a degree were predicated on the annuity 
quotation he accepted from Aviva.
I entirely accept the difficulties that this situation presents to Mr J. But I dont think it 
is reasonable to conclude that Aviva should honour the incorrect quotations that it put 
into payment. I think the difference between what Mr J was entitled to receive, and 
what he would receive if I directed Aviva to honour the quotation, is simply too great 
to be considered a fair or reasonable resolution to the complaint.
My understanding of the resolution proposed by Aviva is that it will allow Mr J to 
retain the initial 9.5% escalation that was added to his annuity in November 2018. So 
the effect of that will be that his future income will always be higher than it would 
have been had the quotations been correct in the first place. Although I appreciate 
that income will be significantly lower than the incorrect quotation suggested I think 
this is a fair resolution to the problem.
But I dont think it is right that Aviva should be prescriptive about how Mr J should 
restructure his annuity payment. I think the mistake that Aviva made should afford 
Mr J the opportunity to reconsider his annuity options and look at whether it might be 
more appropriate for him to ask Aviva to set up his annuity with a different rate of 
escalation. Or indeed Mr J might consider that he would have been better off to not 
take an annuity from Aviva at all.
Given that I think the offer Aviva has made is fair, I dont expect Aviva to offer Mr J 
anything more if he chooses to alter his annuity than he would have been offered 
with a correct quotation in 2017. So if for example Mr J chooses an annuity with a far 
higher rate of escalation, and so a lower annuity income, I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to ask for any overpayment to be returned. And similarly if Mr J 
chose a lower rate of escalation, and thus a higher starting income amount, I would 
expect Aviva to pay Mr J any underpayment that would be due. I leave it with Mr J, in 
response to this provisional decision, to let me know what option he might choose. 
I will then ask Aviva to confirm the financial details of that choice for Mr J to accept 
before I issue any final decision.
I have also noted that Aviva has offered to pay Mr J £500 for the trouble and 
inconvenience this matter has caused to him. I think that is fair, and regardless of 
what Mr J decides about how the annuity should be reconstructed, it is what I will 
direct Aviva to do. But I have also seen that Mr J has said it might be necessary for 
his financial advisor to review the advice it gave him in 2017 about the annuity he 
should take. Should that result in Mr J incurring additional costs, I will consider 
whether to direct Aviva to pay those costs, on receipt of suitable evidence of them 
from Mr J. 
So in summary I think the offer Aviva has made to Mr J, that I have set out above, is 
fair and reasonable. And in the absence of anything further from Mr J it is how I will 
direct Aviva to resolve the complaint. But I leave the door open for Mr J to suggest an 
alternative resolution in line with my guidance above for me to consider when I look 
at this complaint once more.
Both parties have provided me with additional comments in response to my provisional 
decision. Although I am only summarising here what Mr J and Aviva have said, I want to 
reassure them that I have read their entire comments with great care before writing this final 
decision.
Aviva has said that its stance in relation to the complaint is unchanged. Although it accepts it 
made an error in the quotations that were provided it thinks it should have been clear to 
Mr Js financial advisor that the quotation he accepted remained incorrect. It thinks the way it 
has proposed to resolve this error remains the fairest and most reasonable outcome.
Mr J has asked a number of questions in response to my provisional findings. He has asked 
at what point would I see the responsibility for the incorrect quotations pass from Aviva to his 
financial advisor, and he wondered if my decision would have been different if he had not 
taken financial advice. Mr J questions whether it would have been correct for a financial 
advisor to have recommended that he took the inferior quotation if he suspected that the 
quotations were incorrect. Mr J asks why I dont think he was entitled to receive the higher 
quotation despite Aviva offering it on three separate occasions, and he wonders what 
formula I would use to assess whether the cost differential was unreasonable. He points out 
that he is the entirely innocent party, and a layman, in this matter but is the only one that is 
losing out financially. He stresses that the financial decisions he took were irreversible and 
that he is now caught in an impossible situation. He asks how a contract can be broken 
solely for the convenience of Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Aviva accepts that some of the quotations it issued 
to Mr J were incorrect. And I have no doubts about what Mr J tells us in regard to the 
changes he made to his working arrangements following his acceptance of the quotation he 
accepted from Aviva. In this decision I will explain why I think the offer made by Aviva is the 
most reasonable resolution to this complaint.I am required to decide complaints on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable, 
although I will of course be guided by what the law says about a particular matter. But at 
times, given the nature of this Service in providing a quick and informal alternative to Court 
proceedings, what I will consider to be fair and reasonable might differ from what might be 
found by a Court. Should Mr J choose not to accept my final decision he would be free to 
seek a more formal resolution to his complaint by way of legal proceedings.
In particular Mr J has asked here whether it is right that what he considers to be formal 
contract can simply be set aside for the convenience of Aviva. I appreciate how strongly Mr J 
feels about the binding nature of that contract, but Im not persuaded that matters are quite 
as simple as he suggests. When considering the formation of a contact, my understanding is 
that the Courts would consider what both parties knew before that contract was formed. 
Here as I have previously explained there is some doubt about whether it was reasonable to 
rely on the incorrect quotations provided by Aviva. And so in my determination of this 
complaint I think an assessment of what I think is fair and reasonable might be more 
appropriate than deciding the complaint on a strict assessment of contract law.
Mr J says that he is the innocent party in all of this. And it is clear that he will receive less 
income from his annuity than he was expecting before Aviva discovered the mistake. But 
I would expect that his financial advisor made him aware of its obvious concerns with the 
quotations that Aviva was providing. As I said in my provisional decision, even after three 
matching quotations had been received, I dont think that the financial advisor could honestly 
argue that it believed them to be correct. And so I would hope that Mr J was given some 
words of warning about the risks of making irrevocable decisions as a result of his expected 
retirement income.
Mr J describes himself as a layman at the time he was making decisions about his 
retirement income. But I think he was supported by two expert parties here  Aviva and his 
financial advisor. However, rather importantly, in terms of their relationship with Mr J, Aviva 
was only providing (albeit incorrect) information  his financial advisor was providing him 
with advice. I would expect that Mr Js ultimate decision to take the annuity was informed by 
the advice he received, and that advice would have taken account of the risk that the annuity 
quotations appeared incorrect and borne in mind the decisions he would be making as a 
result.
My assessment of a fair resolution isnt influenced by the cost to Aviva of this error  and so 
any comparisons between that cost and Avivas profitability are irrelevant. As I explained in 
my provisional decision I need to consider the annuity that would have been paid to Mr J had 
Aviva provided him with correct quotations. Had the difference been smaller I might have 
concluded that it was more reasonable for Mr J and his financial advisor to have been 
unaware of the error. But the difference can in no way be described to be small. And so 
I think a fair resolution would be for Mr J to only receive what he would have been paid had 
the quotations been correct.
Aviva has already implemented what it considers to be a fair and reasonable correction to 
Mr Js annuity income. It has allowed him to retain the first increment that was added at 
9.5%. But it says it will only pay future increments at a rate of 5% per annum. Mr J hasnt 
proposed any other resolution that I think would be fair and reasonable so I am left to 
conclude that the actions Aviva has taken are appropriate here.As I explained in my provisional decision I think Aviva needs to pay Mr J £500 for the trouble 
and inconvenience this matter has caused to him. I appreciate how disappointing my final 
decision will be for Mr J. As I explained earlier he might achieve a different outcome should 
he reject my final decision and refer the matter to the Courts. I cannot guide him on that 
choice but I am satisfied that my decision provides for a fair and reasonable conclusion to 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman