DRN-2523077
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold Mr and Mrs J 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1996 and 2001 to cover a 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 20 and 24 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the 
original documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the 
evidence when considering the case. 
Mr and Mrs J have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. However, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. 
As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person or organisation 
has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. And HSBC has presented some evidence that 
Mr and Mrs J would have had to sign a separate mandate for the PPI insurance. So I think 
its more likely the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mr and Mrs J dont now remember it. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Js 
consent.  
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I dont think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. 
It would have been for Mr and Mrs J to decide whether it was suitable.  
But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay 
a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr and Mrs J received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And theyve said they 
didnt have savings to fall back on  and even if they did have other means of support, it 
would have delayed the time when they would need to rely on those. So the PPI would have 
put Mr and Mrs J in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford 
the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard now to know how well HSBC explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mr and Mrs J took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Mr and Mrs Js sick pay, they didnt have substantial savings, and the cost wasnt 
significantly high. So fuller information is unlikely to have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman