DRN-3272204
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Northridge Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
NFL. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered around 20,800 
miles.
In May 2021 Mr M experienced issues with the car losing power. The car was diagnosed 
with poor compression and Mr M was advised that a new engine was needed.
Mr M complained to NFL. In response, it said that because the engine had failed around a 
year from the point of supply, and because the engine had been functional in February 2021 
when the car had passed a MOT, it was up to Mr M to prove that the fault was present at the 
point of supply.
Mr M was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. he said he didnt think a reasonable person would 
expect an engine to fail in a car of this age and mileage and said it wasnt durable and that 
Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
NFL didnt agree. It said that a used car which had covered several thousand miles in the 10 
months since the point of supply was sufficiently durable, and that neither the AA not the 
RAC had determined that the fault with the engine was present at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there a fault with the car. This is because the 
supplying dealer has diagnosed engine failure.
Ive looked at the available evidence to determine whether the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
The fault occurred in May 2021, around 10 months after the point of supply. This is relevant, 
because the Consumer Rights Act says that where a fault occurs after the first 6 months, its 
up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Theres no report in this case. The two companies who Mr M 
approached for a report told him that they wouldnt be able to say whether the fault was 
present at the point of supply.
The garage who ran a diagnostic check when the car was towed to them in June 2021 
stated that they would need to strip the engine for further investigation. Mr M was quoted 
£500 for this, which he couldnt afford.
Theres no engineering evidence which addresses whether the fault would have been 
present at the point of supply. So, I cant safely conclude that there was a fault at the point of 
supply. But I also need to consider whether the car was sufficiently durable, because 
durability is an aspect of satisfactory quality.
Durability means that the car should be fault free for a reasonable period of time, taking into 
account the age and mileage of the car, and the length of time and mileage covered since 
the point of supply. 
When the car was supplied it was around 3 years old and had covered around 20,800 miles. 
The engine failed when the car was around 4 years old and had covered around 30,000 
miles. The car had only covered around 9000 miles since the point of supply, which is 
average mileage. Theres nothing to suggest that excessive mileage has contributed to the 
engine failure. 
Ive taken into account the point that NFl has made about the car passing a MOT in February 
2021. However, this of itself doesnt mean that there wasnt a fault with the engine. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect an engine to fail on a car of this age and mileage.
Theres nothing to suggest that the engine failure was caused by external factors such as a 
lack of servicing. I can see that Mr M had the car serviced in February 2021. Taking 
everything into account, in my view, the engine has failed prematurely. I dont think the car 
was sufficiently durable, which means that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Putting things right
To put things right NFL should allow Mr M to reject the car. I dont think repair is a 
reasonably remedy here because of the likely cost of a replacement engine. Further, Im 
satisfied that the dealership has been given a reasonable opportunity to repair the car when 
it was returned to them in May 2021.
Mr M hasnt been able to use the car since 22 May 2021. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Mr M to make payments for a car hes unable to use, so Im asking NFL to refund all 
payments made by Mr M since that date.
Its clear that Mr M has been caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to purchase 
another car. At the same time, hes had to continue to insure the faulty car. I think its fair to 
ask NFL to pay compensation to Mr M to reflect the inconvenience caused, and to refund the 
insurance premiums.
 .
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Northridge Finance Limited must:End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr M
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £1550
Refund all payments made since 22 May 2021
Refund £150 insurance premium
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman