DRN-3190753
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the contact he received from TSB Bank plc. He says TSB made him 
feel like he was being contacted by scammers. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr V received a voicemail from someone who said they were calling from 
his bank (without naming the bank) and left a number to call back. He called TSB but he was 
told by the call handler that no one had contacted him from TSB. So, Mr V asked for his 
account to be looked into and for him to be made aware if there were any requests to 
change his details.  
Mr V said he then spent a lot of time trying to figure out who called him. TSB said it had sent 
two letters in January 2021 to Mr V after the voicemail asking him to call back. Mr V spoke 
again with TSB on 26 January 2021 and he was told to contact the account review team 
which he did. In April 2021 Mr V contacted TSB again and made a complaint about the 
communication he had received. 
TSB reviewed the complaint and apologised for any confusion it caused by its voicemail. But 
it didnt think Mr V was entitled to any compensation. Mr V disagreed and brought his 
complaint to this service. He said TSB should pay him £150 compensation and improve the 
way it communicates with him and other customers. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said TSBs voicemail 
message shouldve been clearer in January 2021. But he was satisfied it also sent two 
letters asking Mr V to call its account review team. And he didnt think Mr V had been treated 
unreasonably here. 
Mr V disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he was inconvenienced 
by the voicemail and wants TSB to make improvements to the way it communicates with its 
customers to avoid any confusion in the future. He added that this situation meant he 
increased his security in relation to his banking because he thought scammers were trying to 
call him which caused distress and inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr V feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr V is clearly unhappy about the voicemail he received, but in order for me to agree that 
TSB should pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience, Id need to be satisfied 
TSB treated him unfairly and unreasonably. And Im not satisfied it did. 
Both sides have agreed that the voicemail Mr V was left in January 2021 shouldve made it 
clearer it was TSB calling him. And TSB has said it shouldve checked the file more 
thoroughly when Mr V called back that day to confirm if it had attempted to speak with him 
about his account. But Ive also seen that two letters were sent by TSB to Mr V. One on 
8 January 2021 (which Mr V said he didnt receive) and a further letter on 20 January 2021 
which he did receive. He then spoke to TSB on 26 January 2021 who told him it was the 
account review team who he needed to speak to. Mr V spoke with that team and the matter 
wasnt taken any further by TSB. 
I can understand the points Mr V has raised here and that TSB shouldve handled this 
situation better. But that doesnt mean I think he is entitled to compensation. Im sure he was 
worried by the initial contact and I dont believe it was unreasonable for him to be more 
cautious with his account security. But I dont agree that he should receive £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience he has said this caused him. TSB wanted to discuss Mr Vs 
account activity, which I dont consider unreasonable as checks are regularly made on 
customer accounts. TSB followed up the voicemail with a letter which was correctly 
addressed. And I cant hold TSB responsible for the letter going missing in the post. When 
the follow up letter was received, Mr V contacted TSB and then subsequently the correct 
team, the matter was resolved. 
As a result, Im satisfied that TSBs written apology sufficiently recognises the distress and 
inconvenience Mr V suffered here. And Im not going to ask TSB to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman