DRN-1657389
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1996 with a 
credit card. Mr H says Barclays Bank UK Plc, (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr H says he would never have knowingly opted for PPI and says he applied for his credit 
card via a postal application. He said he never spoke to someone in branch. Barclays says it 
was added to his account after he requested cover on his paper application form which 
couldve been completed either in branch or via a postal application. But to offer Mr H the 
best service, its treated the sale as a branch application. 
When there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the 
available evidence - this includes Mr Hs testimony and any documents both Mr H and 
Barclays have submitted. 
Barclays has provided us with a copy of Mr Hs application form, and on it, I can see there is 
a separate section for PPI. Customers had to tick the Yes box to add PPI or a No box to 
decline it. I can see on Mr Hs form the Yes box has been ticked and he has then signed the 
form to confirm the selections made. 
Although Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs testimony, and understand his strength of 
feeling reading this, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr H ticked the Yes 
box and selected PPI, although given how long ago this policy was sold, I can understand 
why he may not remember that now. So, overall, I think Barclays made it clear that Mr H 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
Mr H is adamant he applied for his credit card via a postal application and was given no 
advice about the PPI. Barclays has treated it as a branch sale and assumed it did provide 
advice. It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either an 
advised (or recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale requires a 
business to assess the suitability of a policy where as a non-advised sale only requires a 
business to provide clear information. So, an advised sales holds Barclays to a higher 
standard which is why Barclays treated this sale as a branch (and therefore advised) sale  
so it held itself to this higher standard.
I accept Mr Hs testimony that this was a postal application and therefore no advice was 
given. But for completeness and to hold Barclays to the higher standard, Ive also assessed 
this case as an advised sale. This means Barclays had to check the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, I think it was. For example, Mr H was 
eligible for the policy, and he wouldnt have been affected by any of the main exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover. He also seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr H says his employer provided him with six months full followed by six months half sick 
pay and he also couldve relied on his wife to help him make repayments if he had found 
himself unexpectedly out of work. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any employee 
benefits his employer provided such as the sick pay. It could also have paid out for up to 12 
months if Mr H couldnt work because of illness, injury or unemployment. I think he wouldve 
found that useful especially for the period after his full sick pay ended. And while I have no 
doubt that Mr Hs wife would want to help him, her ability to help would depend on her own 
circumstances at the time  which could change. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I can see the application form explained the PPI provided cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. It also made clear premiums would be charged  so I think 
Mr H knew hed be paying something for it and he still wanted it. As he chose to take it out, it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as Ive said above, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions and it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. 
Overall, I think having a policy pay out in difficult times for up to 12 months would still have 
been useful for him. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Barclays doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman