DRN-3305888
The complaint
Mr K, as a representative of the estate of Mrs K, complains that Standard Life Assurance 
Limited (Standard Life) used the date that his wife died to calculate the value of her pension 
fund instead of a more appropriate later date. Hes also complained about Standard Life 
paying 100% of the fund to him and not allocating some to his children  he says it would 
cause tax problems if he had to gift the money to the children himself. In addition, Mr K says 
Standard Life has lost some documentation during the process, so it couldnt speak to him to 
begin with and couldnt allocate the funds in line with his late wifes wishes. 
What happened
The late Mrs K took out a stakeholder pension plan with Standard Life in 2001. 
The plan was invested between the with-profits fund and the stock exchange fund. 
The annual statement for the period ending 29 July 2018 noted the value of the plan as 
being £31,422.45. 
Unfortunately, Mrs K passed away in December 2018. So in January 2019 Mr K contacted 
Standard Life to find out if he had authorisation to discuss the plan and if there were any 
beneficiaries noted. Standard Life said it couldnt find either a nomination of beneficiary form 
or a letter of authority (LOA) for it to deal with Mr K on the file. 
In March 2019 Mr K contacted Standard Life again to discuss the options for his late wifes 
pension plan. It was at this point he made it aware of her death. Standard Life confirmed the 
value of the plan it was going to pay out was £28,615.89 and that it would pay the benefits at 
its discretion as the trustee  but would take into consideration any previous expression of 
wishes as well as Mrs Ks family situation. It said there were four options available to Mr K 
regarding the pension fund.
 
Standard Life subsequently decided that it would pay the benefit to Mr K as the primary 
dependent/beneficiary. 
Following a number of phone conversations, it was confirmed that Standard Life had 
calculated the value of the plan as at the date of Mrs Ks death. However, the value of the 
plan when Mr K made Standard Life aware of her death was £29,984. So Mr K complained 
that he should have been paid the fund value from either when he informed Standard Life of 
his wifes death or when it transferred the money to him. He wanted the units in the fund to 
be passed over to him directly whereas Standard Life had simply encashed them.
He also complained about the overall service hed received from Standard Life as he didnt 
think it had answered his questions and he was still concerned as to why the benefits 
couldnt be paid directly to his children. He also raised concerns about the missing 
nomination form and LOA. 
Standard Life upheld part of Mr Ks complaint. It said that, while it thought it had acted 
correctly and according to its provisions by using the date of death to calculate the value of 
Mrs Ks plan, it had made a number of service related errors.
Its telephone notes from March 2019 didnt reflect Mr Ks concerns about the plan 
benefits not being able to be paid directly to his children.
It didnt call Mr K back on 27 March and when it did call back on 28 March 2019 it 
didnt answer Mr Ks specific questions. 
When Mr K called Standard Life on 3 April 2019, he requested a call back or asked to 
speak to the person hed recently spoken to from another department. Mr K was very 
frustrated with the lack of answers at this point, but this wasnt logged as a complaint.
The call in which Mr K was expected to decide how he wanted to take the benefits 
wasnt relevant because he still hadnt been given the answer to his questions about 
beneficiaries. 
Standard Life said it would be willing to speak to Mr K again, explaining its decision to pay 
the benefits to him, and to ask if he would rather not be a beneficiary of the money. It said it 
would pay Mr K £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience its service had caused 
him at what was clearly a difficult time. 
However, Standard Life said there was no record of a nomination of beneficiary form being 
provided to it or being held on file.
But Mr K remained unhappy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us. He said 
Standard Life had refused to transfer his late wifes pension fund directly to him but had 
instead encashed the plan on the date of her death.
 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He made the following points:
Standard Life had asked Mr K to contact its bereavement team to discuss the subject 
of who to pay the funds to. But to date Mr K hadnt taken up that invitation or given 
Standard Life permission to contact some of his children to ask if they would like to 
be considered as beneficiaries.
He was unable to confirm where the missing nomination and LOA forms might have 
gone. He said he was unable to conclude if they could have gone astray in the post 
or had been misplaced by Standard Life.
Standard Lifes policy provisions made it clear from the outset that, in the event of 
Mrs Ks death, it would calculate the value of the plan on the date of death and keep 
the money in cash until it could be transferred to a new plan in the beneficiaries 
name. He thought that Standard Life had acted according to how it said it would. 
Standard Life was the trustee of the plan and had discretion on how it should pay out 
the funds. It said it would take the family circumstances into consideration, but it 
wasnt for Mr K or any other possible beneficiaries to decide how the funds would be 
allocated.
The sentence from the 2018 annual pension statement which said, if you die before 
retirement well pay out a lump sum or a pension or both. The value would at least 
equal the current value on the date of death, wasnt as clear as it could have been. It 
could have been seen to suggest the value was guaranteed until the next statement 
although the statement did also say the plan value wasnt guaranteed.  
In any case the statement didnt constitute a contract, unlike the policy provisions, 
which did set out that it formed a contract between Standard Life and the late Mrs K. He thought Standard Lifes offer for £300 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr K was caused, at a difficult time, was fair and reasonable. He 
thought that if Mr K had been given a single point of contact most of his questions 
could have been resolved. 
Mr K didnt agree and made the following points in response:
Standard Lifes final response letter said that it was only prepared to pay the 
proceeds of the policy to Mr K. It hadnt remedied that situation or completed the 
transfer to the children in all the time since  so he didnt accept that Standard Life 
would be prepared to revise its discretion over who to pay the pension benefits. 
Whilst he didnt expect Standard Life to pay the full value of the plan as stated on 
29 July 2018, he did expect Standard Life to immediately pay the value of the plan on 
the day he notified it of his wifes death. With Standard Life continuing to hold the 
cash, the beneficiaries have lost out on investment opportunities. 
Standard Life are benefitting from the increase in the value of the units within the 
pension. He thought that increase  over the amount it said it would pay him on the 
date of his wifes death, was around £5,500. He thought it was unfair for Standard 
Life to benefit from the increase.
He was satisfied with the payment of £300 for the distress and inconvenience hed 
suffered. But he thought this didnt take into account the approximate £5,500 hed 
lost because of the dates Standard Life used to calculate the fund value and its 
refusal to pay the proceeds straight away. 
 
Standard Life made the following points in response:
It said that it had last communicated with Mr K in November 2019 when it made it 
clear that his claim was still outstanding. It said it couldnt pay the claim until it 
received instructions from Mr K. 
Its final response letter stated that, I noticed that the discretionary decision was 
made without taking into account your concerns about the death benefits not being 
paid to your children. If you would like to discuss this further or want the scheme 
administrators to review their decision  taking into account your children as potential 
beneficiaries  please contact our bereavement team It thought this was a clear 
message that it would revisit its original decision if requested.
It didnt think it had caused any delay in settling the claim. It said it calculated the 
value of the fund as of the date of Mrs Ks death as its T&Cs said it would. It was in 
communication with Mr K thereafter and reminded him in July and November 2019 
that his claim hadnt been settled. It said the money could have been available to 
Mr K shortly after his wife died  if it had been advised of that date when he 
contacted it in January 2019.
It sold the funds on 2 April 2019, so it hasnt benefitted from continuing to hold them. 
This was because the funds could equally have fallen in value and therefore it would 
have had to make up any shortfall  so its general approach was to avoid being 
exposed to any fluctuations in the value after the date of calculation.  
It didnt believe it had caused Mr K to suffer any financial loss.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his original opinion, but Mr K made a number 
of further points.
 
He said there was no reason for Standard Life to have to revisit its original 
discretionary payment as it should have filed the nomination of beneficiary form that 
had been sent to it. And it hadnt communicated further to say it had paid the other 
beneficiaries instead. He also didnt think that wed considered Standard Lifes email 
of 22 November 2019 which said, you are the chosen beneficiary of your wifes 
pension plan.He had subsequently asked Standard Life to send cheques to each of the 
beneficiaries. 
He didnt agree with the statement about paying a value at least equal to the current 
value on the date of death. He said the value on notification was higher, so in effect 
Standard Life, having not sold the units at that time, had made a profit on the claim. 
There would have been no loss to Standard Life if it had sold the units on the date of 
notification which would also be the case if it adopted that approach more generally. 
We hadnt addressed the lack of response from Standard Life to his email of 
22 November 2019. 
It was unreasonable to think that notifying Standard Life of his wifes death was a 
priority in January 2019  only a month after shed passed away.
So as the complaint remained unresolved it was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that I thought Standard Lifes offer of compensation for its 
overall service in addressing Mr Ks complaint and for the delays in deciding which 
beneficiaries to pay was fair and reasonable. I made the following points in support of my 
findings:
Standard Lifes policy provisions said that, in the event of death, it would calculate 
the value of a policyholders pension on the date of that death and then pay either a 
lump sum or an annuity to the dependants. So I thought it had paid the proceeds of 
the late Mrs Ks pension according to how it said it would. 
It also said it would pay the proceeds according to an expression of wishes form but 
subject to its discretion.
I did expect Standard Life to have made Mr and Mrs K aware of its provisions  
which I think it did, and I wouldnt therefore interfere in what I thought was a 
legitimate commercial decision by Standard Life  even if Mr K held alternative views 
on how best it should have paid the pension proceeds.
Mr K thought Standard Life had benefitted from the fall in the value of the plan but 
Standard Life had argued that it might have had to make up a shortfall in the value if 
it had conversely increased  which was also possible. So it adopted an approach 
which it thought meant the value paid out was guaranteed on a certain date and 
cancelled out possible market fluctuations.
The previous annual pension statement seemed to suggest that Standard Life would 
pay the value of the plan at that time, in the event of Mrs Ks death. I did accept the 
wording of the statement could have been clearer, but I thought as the statement 
also said the value wasnt guaranteed, that allowed for the use of a different fund 
valuation after the statement date in any later calculation. 
Standard Life was the trustee of the pension fund so it was responsible for deciding 
how the fund should be allocated. 
But it had a responsibility to take into account any other potential beneficiaries, so I 
thought it should have listened to Mr Ks concerns regarding his children not 
benefitting from the fund. It seemed that Standard Life only offered to discuss that 
possibility in its final response letter of 27 May 2019.
However, there was no evidence to show that Mr K had then contacted Standard Life 
to pursue the matter  so Standard Life hadnt been able to reconsider its initial 
decision of how to allocate the pension fund proceeds and complete the claim. 
This matter had been resolved during our investigation and Standard Life had paid 
the beneficiaries in March 2021. It did however offer £250 for the delays in finalising 
the claim. I thought that offer was fair and reasonable as Standard Life had made the payment 
as soon as was practical following its approach to the beneficiaries when it was 
provided with their contact details. I noted that it had paid simple interest at 8% pa on 
each payment to ensure the payments were in line with what they would have been if 
they had been paid at the earliest opportunity.
But I didnt accept that the money could simply have been transferred to the 
beneficiaries from the plan when Standard Life was made aware of Mrs Ks death. 
The policy provisions also said Standard Life would cancel all the units on death and 
this meant the plan would always have been encashed and then paid out to the 
beneficiaries according to the two options set out when the matter was resolved. 
I couldnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about the poor investment performance of the plan 
as we wouldnt usually uphold such complaints about performance alone due to the 
very nature of investments. And there was no evidence to show that Standard Life 
had promised a guaranteed return on the plan in any case. 
It was difficult to say what had happened to the nomination of beneficiary form Mr K 
said his wife had sent to Standard Life before her death. Standard Life simply doesnt 
have a record of receiving it or adding it to the records. But I thought that Mr K was 
made aware it wasnt held when he spoke with Standard Life in January 2019. I 
thought he could have taken the opportunity to either make Standard Life aware of 
her wishes at that time or shortly afterwards. I was aware that would have been a 
difficult time for Mr K and may not have been a priority for him but he was aware at 
that time that payment might not be made in line with what he and his late wife had 
agreed. 
I thought the offer of £300 that Standard Life had made regarding its poor overall 
level of service was fair and reasonable. It had caused Mr S some degree of distress 
by not answering his questions fully and not giving him one point of contact. I also 
took into consideration that Mr K himself had accepted the offer was reasonable  
but only in respect of the distress and inconvenience he suffered. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Standard Life didnt have anything further to add, but Mr K didnt agree. He made the 
following points in response:
The letter of authority had been sent to Standard Life in 2008, along with investment 
cheques which were received. And the wills had been changed as a result of his 
mothers death  not Mrs Ks illness. 
This meant that he had to send the death certificate and will to Standard Life to cover 
the absent letter of authority. Had this already been on file it would have been easier 
for him to deal with the process as it was a very difficult time for him and hard for him 
to deal with the claim.
Standard Life wanted to pay contrary to information contained in the nomination of 
beneficiary form  which had been provided along with the other document and 
cheques many years earlier. 
However, even allowing for Standard Life mislaying the form, it should still have 
taken their conversation in March 2019 as the basis on which to ensure all the 
beneficiary options were taken into account.  
Standard Life didnt pay out the value of the units on the date it sold them. It took until 
March 2021 to pay the correct beneficiaries.
He didnt think Id dealt with his second complaint about Standard Life taking 24 
months to finally pay the claim, nor his escalation of that complaint which covered a 
period of December 2020 to March 2021. He thought this complaint should have 
been dealt with separately and found my findings to be hard to follow. His view was 
that Standard Life had acted unfairly over the delay in making payment and he hadnt received any compensation for that fact. He had already contacted the Pensions 
Ombudsman about the long delays and noted we had responded to the issue without 
receiving his submissions on the matter.
These delays meant that his children had missed the opportunity to invest the funds 
they should have received in May 2019. He calculated that this had led to a 
consequential financial loss of over £11,000. 
The issue of the beneficiaries had been raised by him as early as 2019 and Standard 
Life should have asked him the necessary questions to ensure the matter was 
addressed at that time  not in March 2021. 
He wanted confirmation that Id seen the 10 emails he sent to Standard Life between 
December 2020 and March 2021 about the payment to his children.
He didnt think £250 was sufficient compensation for the long delays in Standard Life 
correctly meeting the claim. 
Standard Life had caused confusion by involving numerous different employees in 
his claim and had provided lots of unnecessary correspondence which all looked like 
a planned attempt to delay payment. He noted payment was eventually made just 
before the two years passed which, if exceeded, would have meant there were tax 
implications to paying the lump sums to the correct beneficiaries.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ks further submissions and additional points at great length but 
having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Mr Ks response to 
my provisional decision as well as his original correspondence demonstrated how strongly 
he felt about this matter. And I dont take lightly how important this is to him following a 
difficult time for him. I note his frustrations at having to deal with a number of institutions 
following his wifes death and the difficulties he encountered, so I know hell be disappointed 
with the outcome here  Ill therefore explain my final reasons. 
The date used to determine the value of the claim to be paid
Mr Ks position was always that Standard Life should have used either the date he informed 
it of his wifes death or the date it encashed the units in the pension plan in order to calculate 
the value of his claim. He says Standard Life wouldnt have suffered any loss in that situation 
as it would have paid out the actual value of the plan at the appropriate time. 
I can understand Mr Ks position here and his frustration that Standard Lifes existing 
approach to this situation caused the beneficiaries to receive a lower amount than they 
would have done under his alternative. But Standard Life did have a longstanding approach 
to this as was set out in the pension policy provisions at the time the late Mrs K took out her 
plan.
Provision 12 was about Benefits on death before your vesting date and stated that if you 
die before the vesting date, we will cancel all your units and use the policy proceeds in 
accordance with the rules to : (a) pay a lump sum: (b) buy an annuity payable to a 
dependent or dependents: but only up to the limits allowed by the rules.
And for the purposes of provisions 12, 13 and 14, the unit prices are the ones set for the
appropriate date. For: (a) Provision 12, the appropriate date is the day that you (or your ex-
spouse) dies.The provisions were clear and confirmed that Standard Life would always have used the 
date of Mrs Ks death to value the plan  regardless of when Mr K made it aware of her 
death. And it was also clear that the units within the plan would be encashed and used to 
pay a lump sum or annuity to the beneficiaries  so there was no possibility that the plan 
would simply be passed over to the beneficiaries in the form it had existed. 
Standard Life has explained that its reason for this approach is to ensure there are no 
market fluctuations that might apply to a plan after a policyholder dies. It said claimants 
would be unhappy if the value fell after that date, so it thought the fairest approach was to 
ensure there were no fluctuations. I wouldnt normally interfere with a business legitimate 
commercial decision  which is what Standard Life has decided here, but I would expect its 
approach to be made known to the policyholder at the time the policy was taken out, which I 
believe it was, and the provisions were still available for consideration at the time of the 
claim. 
Standard Life made its approach known in the policy provisions which is what I would have 
expected it to do. I know Mr K believes a different approach should be adopted  but that 
doesnt mean Standard Lifes approach is wrong. I think Standard Life ultimately paid the 
claim according to the date it said it would use in its provisions.
Mr K has pointed to some confusion in Standard Lifes annual pension statement for 2018 
which seemed to suggest that if you die before retirement well pay out a lump sum or a 
pension or both. The value would at least equal the current value on the date of death. The 
value at that time was £31,422.45 so Mr K says that ought to have been the amount to be 
paid out. But, while I agree the statement could have been clearer, Im satisfied that a 
reasonable interpretation of this is that the full current value at the date of death would be 
paid without any penalties or charges. 
But even if a different interpretation was reasonably possible, the same section also stated 
that this current value is not guaranteed, which I think confirms that the £31,422.45 wasnt 
a guaranteed value and would fluctuate so that in the event of Mrs Ks death a different 
value would most likely apply  calculated on that date of her death.
Payment of the claim to the correct beneficiaries
When Mr K began communications with Standard Life over the claim in March 2019, he 
raised the issue of who the claim should be paid to as beneficiaries. He suggested that, in 
order to avoid gifting the funds to his children if they were paid to him, it might be better for 
the payment to be made to his children. Mr K said this was noted in a nomination of 
beneficiary form that had previously been sent to Standard Life  which is an issue Ill 
address later. 
But it would seem Standard Life took no further action in the consideration of Mr Ks children 
as sole beneficiaries and the matter was only picked up again in Standard Lifes response to 
Mr Ks complaint in May 2019. At that point Standard Life asked Mr K to contact a separate 
team to discuss the matter of it exercising discretion over who to pay the claim to. 
As the sole trustee of the fund it was for Standard Life to decide to which beneficiary it 
should make payment. I think that Standard Life should have given more consideration to 
Mr Ks request of March 2019 and its accepted that it made an error here. Its offer of £300 
was primarily for the error in not taking that into consideration which I think was fair and 
reasonable. 
But in the response of May 2019 I think Standard Life gave Mr K the opportunity to approach 
it and discuss the matter further  I think it would have reversed its decision, as it later did, if 
Mr K had made his case at that time. But Standard Life couldnt reverse its decision without that discussion and the provision of further information it required about the beneficiaries  
so I dont think it did anything wrong after May 2019 because it needed Mr Ks input and 
authorisation, and the available evidence doesnt support the position that the matter was 
discussed further after that time. I know Mr K says it took Standard Life nearly two years to 
pay the claim correctly, but I dont think it was in a position to do so from May 2019 until the 
matter was raised again in December 2020. 
The question of the delay in making the payment correctly wasnt a complaint that Mr K 
made when he first came to us. It only unfolded during our investigation process and the 
investigator thought he had resolved the matter when he told Mr K that payment had been 
made to the children  in line with the original request, with the addition of interest backdated 
to the date the claim should have been paid. There was also another payment of £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by that particular matter. 
In my provisional decision I said that, Standard Life has answered this complaint point 
(about the delay in paying the children) but I note our investigator didnt do so, so Ive 
provided some provisional findings on that matter so that both parties can make comments if 
necessary. I said that, having considered the timeline of events from December 2020 to 
March 2021  when the payment was completed, I thought the offer of £250 for the 
inconvenience caused and the fact that payment had been made with interest added, was a 
fair and reasonable resolution and I didnt think Standard Life needed to do more.
Mr K thought the offer wasnt sufficient, but he also thought I shouldnt have tried to answer 
the subsequent complaint without further submissions from him, and that my decision on this 
matter was hard to follow and confusing. I did ask both parties to provide any further 
evidence they had regarding this point but nothing further was submitted. However, Ive now 
checked with Mr K whether he would like me to issue my final findings on this part of his 
complaint or if he would like to take his complaint to the other dispute resolution service that 
he had previously approached. 
Mr K provided some further submissions about the poor service and delays he said Standard 
Life caused during this period. He also said it had paid the final claim net of basic rate tax 
which meant he now had to engage with HMRC to get a refund of the tax that was paid by 
the non-tax paying beneficiaries. Mr K confirmed that he wanted me to answer this part of 
the complaint as he felt it would cost him more time and money to have it looked at again 
elsewhere. 
So, Ive carefully reviewed all the evidence of the communications between Mr K and 
Standard Life from December 2020 and I remain satisfied with the timeline of events Id been 
given and of my findings at that time  which were that the matter had been resolved fairly 
and the additional offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. Ive seen 
nothing further to persuade me that my conclusion was incorrect. I think Standard Life was 
consistent in trying to contact Mr K for the details of the other beneficiaries and when it was 
provided with such information it paid the claim, correctly, in a timely manner. 
I note that Standard Life also backdated the payment as if it had been made following a 
claim after Mrs Ks death, adding interest at 8% pa simple  higher than the rate of interest it 
would usually apply.
So I think Standard Life has been fair and reasonable in meeting the claim. And I think its 
important to confirm that it has also acted in line with normal procedures to pay the claim net 
of basic rate tax  which is what its required to do, so that individual claimants can adjust 
their tax position with HMRC according to their individual tax status. 
The missing nomination formOne of the main problems here was that when Mr K first contacted Standard Life in 
January 2018, he asked about the beneficiaries as named in a nomination of beneficiary 
form he said was lodged with Standard Life before his wifes death. He said the form was 
sent to Standard Life many years before and should have been on file. He thought not 
having this information led to him having to process further duplicitous information and 
caused the funds not to be paid according to his late wifes wishes, which has subsequently 
also led to a lost investment opportunity because of the delay in making payment.
As I said previously, Im unable to determine what happened to the form in question. I dont 
dispute what Mr K says about it being sent but at the same time I also understand that 
Standard Life simply doesnt have a record of the form on file. 
The form may have been lost in the post or been mislaid by Standard Life  although it might 
also reasonably be argued that, had it been submitted earlier, Mr and Mrs K would have 
expected confirmation of its receipt. But either way when Mr K contacted Standard Life in 
January 2018, he was told the form wasnt on the file and he would have been aware at that 
time that payment wouldnt be made in line with those wishes as they hadnt previously been 
received.
I can understand Mr Ks frustration at learning that he would have to go through the claim 
process providing evidence and information that he felt should have already been available 
to Standard Life. Especially as this was a difficult time for him, and he couldnt simply 
provide another nomination form in the circumstances. But as Ive already said Standard Life 
was responsible for not properly dealing with his consideration from March to May 2019  for 
which I think its offer of compensation is sufficient for that mistake. However, I think it was for 
Mr K to contact Standard Lifes separate team in May 2019 to explain why it should reverse 
its decision to pay him and to instead make payment to his children. 
So, although the missing form was crucial in adding to the confusion and delay here, I cant 
reasonably say it was Standard Lifes fault that the form wasnt held as a record and I think it 
explained that situation to Mr K at the first opportunity when he contacted it in January 2019.
Summary
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Standard Life made a payment for a claim to the appropriate 
beneficiaries, calculated using the value of the fund based on the date of the late Mrs Ks 
death as it said it would in its policy provisions. Im satisfied appropriate payment with 
interest has been made. But by its own admissions Standard Lifes overall service wasnt 
without errors and I can see how the lack of information Mr K was given when he contacted 
Standard Life in March 2019 meant he was unable to finalise a decision about the 
beneficiaries. Placing this alongside a lack of returning phone calls and an inability to allow 
the same person to deal with his claim this would have had an impact on Mr K, particularly at 
what was undoubtably a difficult time for him. 
So I think Standard Lifes offer of £300 for the impact of those errors is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
And I also note the trouble and upset Mr K suffered during his attempt to get the claim paid 
to his children  and while I remain of the view that Standard Life wasnt responsible for the 
whole two year period it took to make payment, I think a further offer of £250 for its part in 
the delay is fair and reasonable.  
My final decisionI uphold Mr Ks complaint against Standard Life Assurance Limited in part. Standard Life 
should pay Mr K the total of £550 for the trouble and upset caused to him during this process 
if it hasnt already made either partial or full payment to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman