DRN-1568592
 
The complaint
Miss K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) is responsible for damage to her 
house because it failed to diagnose the source of a leak.
 What happened
Miss K has a HomeServe home emergency insurance policy with Aviva. In September 2018 
she called it to report that shed noticed that her hall carpet was damp due to a small leak 
from her bathroom above. An Aviva engineer attended and tested the shower waste and 
tray. His view was that there wasnt a leak but that there was an issue with the grouting and 
sealing. Some two months later, Miss K called in a builder to address the grouting and 
sealing. He said there wasnt a leak from the tiles, but he grouted and re-sealed them for 
which he charged Miss K £150.
On 30 April 2019, Miss K called Aviva again about a further leak from her bathroom into the 
hall which had now damaged a table, the carpet and wallpaper. Avivas engineer identified 
that the leak was from the shower. He replaced the shower waste trap through a hole he 
made in the hall ceiling.
Miss K raised a complaint with Aviva about its having misdiagnosed the original leak. Aviva 
sent an independent engineer to investigate on 26 June 2019. Miss K says he told her that 
Aviva was to blame and that he estimated it would cost £2,500 to rectify. The following day, 
Miss K received a call from Aviva who told her that she was liable for the damage as the 
engineer shed employed to fix the floor had done a poor job.
According to Avivas records, when its engineer attended on 15 September 2018 he checked 
around the shower and there were no obvious signs of leaks. He flood tested the shower 
tray and waste but didnt find any faults. He noted that the grouting and seals were in poor 
condition and explained to Miss K that repairs were required.
When an engineer attended again on 1 May 2018, he tested the shower waste to check if 
water came through the hallway ceiling, which it did. The notes confirmed that this didnt 
happen on the first visit. The repair was done a few days later.
Aviva says that after Miss K had lodged her complaint about the damage to her property, its 
surveyor attended to assess the damage. 
The independent surveyors report following his inspection on 26 June 2019 concluded that 
the sealant and grout had been re-done to a poor standard and had not been done correctly. 
It stated that the previously failed sealant could have caused the damage. The surveyor said 
he couldnt confirm that the leak fixed by Avivas engineer was the sole cause of the damage 
or if the failed sealant/grout had contributed to the damage.
Aviva has rejected liability on two grounds. Firstly the two leaks were reported seven months 
apart. Secondly, in the intervening period, Miss K had made a number of other claims which had resulted in a further six visits from Aviva engineers. She hadnt mentioned before 30 
April 2019 that the leak she'd initially reported in September 2018 was continuing. If the leak 
was continuing, why hadnt she reported it to Aviva before this ?
Miss K wast satisfied with Avivas response to her complaint, so she brought it to this 
service. Our investigator didnt consider that Avivas engineer had misdiagnosed the cause 
of the leak, and Miss K hadnt informed Aviva for many months that the leak was continuing. 
She considered that there must have been two leaks. She didnt consider that Aviva should 
be required to do anything.
Miss K doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm not going to uphold Miss K's complaint 
and I'll explain why.
I have to consider whether I think Aviva has done anything wrong, and if I think it has, how 
this should be put right.
Ive looked at Avivas records. These show that when its engineer visited on 15 September 
2018, he reported:
Checked around shower no obvious signs of leaks, flood tested waste and tray but found no 
fault. Advised customer of issues with grouping and seals and explained repairs required. 
When Miss Ks builder attended some two months later, his invoice dated 28 November 
2018 stated:
On suite bathroom grout + resealed. Customer advised to get alleged leak re checked but 
she declined. Work is not guaranteed as I believe leak is from a different source. (sic)
So in September and November 2018, there was no agreement as to what was responsible 
for the water leaking into Miss Ks hall.
According to Aviva, in January and February 2019 Miss K contacted it about other issues, 
and its engineers attended on some six occasions. At these visits no mention was made of a 
leak from the shower above the hall.
It wasnt until 30 April 2019, over seven months since Avivas fist engineer had attended, 
that Miss K told Aviva that there was a consistent leak which had caused damage in her 
hallway. Miss K maintains this was the same leak that Avivas engineer had failed to 
diagnose the previous September.
Ive seen the independent surveyors report arranged by Aviva in June 2019. It states:
The damage could be consistent with the reported details; the sealant and grout works done 
to the bathroom shower are of a poor standard and have not been done correctly. The 
previously failed sealant could have caused the damage. It appears HomeServes second 
engineer has confirmed the cause was from under the shower and fixed a leak, however we 
are unable to confirm if this issue was the sole cause of damage, or if the previously failed 
sealant/grout reported by the first engineer has contributed to the damage.I consider that this is inconclusive as to what caused the damage that Miss K suffered to her 
hallway. I therefore have to make my decision based upon what I think is more likely than 
not to have been happened.
Miss K has said in response to our investigators initial view:
The leak continued after the grouting and seal repair as the ceiling colour until this day 
shows that the leak continued as the marking on the ceiling still shows a leak over a number 
of months.the leak was only picked up by us again after it started coming through. 
She says that shed started using a different bathroom as she was
 ..still unsure as there was marking on the ceiling appearing but no actual leak. It was 
reported once the leak start coming through the floor.(sic)
So its Miss Ks assertion that following Avivas visit on 15 September 2018, the leak 
continued, discolouring the hall ceiling. But as Miss Ks builder didt undertake the 
recommended grouting and sealing for a further two months, further leaking through the tiles 
could have occurred during that period to cause damage to the hall ceiling.
My assessment is that some water had started to come though Miss Ks hall ceiling before 
Avivas visit in September 2018. The wet hall carpet was the reason for the visit. If it wasnt 
until April 2019 that water again started to come through the ceiling, I think its more likely 
than not that the cause of the leak in April wasnt the same as the leak in September. And if 
water had started to leak through the ceiling before April 2019, why hadnt Miss K contacted 
Aviva as soon as that happened? Shed had various opportunities to do so.
I also take into account that Avivas professional and independent surveyor wasnt able to 
say with any certainty what had caused the leak. Miss K says that what he told her doesn't 
accord with what he said in his survey report. I can't place any weight on anything the 
surveyor may have said that he wasn't prepared to confirm in writing.
So my decision is that I consider that theres insufficient evidence to enable me to say that 
there was a leak from Miss Ks shower waste in September 2018 which Avivas engineer 
failed to notice then. If there had been, I consider it likely that it wouldve become obvious 
long before April 2018. But Miss K didn't mention this to Aviva for over seven months.
I therefore dont consider that it would be fair to hold Aviva responsible. Miss Ks home 
insurance might provide her with cover in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding Miss K's complaint and I don't require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman