DRN-2945141
The complaint
Mr N complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit 
card account and later increased his credit limit which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr N says Aqua shouldnt have allowed him to open the credit card account and shouldnt 
have increased the credit limits. He says he was in financial difficulties throughout the time 
period and that checks were not carried out. Mr N says Aqua didnt consider how he would 
repay his debt and didnt require details of his income and expenditure. He says he had a 
default on his credit file and would like a refund of interest and charges.
Aqua says Mr N applied for the account in 2016 and it increased the credit limit from 2017 to 
2020. It says Mr N declared an income of nearly £29,000 and it calculated his debts at 
£1,200. Aqua says it did carry out appropriate checks at the start and before the credit limit 
increases. It says Mr N told it he had lost his job in July 2020 and says that he managed his 
account appropriately before that time.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought appropriate checks were carried out and that the account was well managed. The 
investigator also thought the loss of job may have caused the difficulties and couldnt see 
details of a loan Mr N said he had on the credit file used by Aqua.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and says his bank statements show his financial difficulties 
and says some of the income the investigator said he had was housing benefit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending or the size of the credit facility. This was an application for a credit 
facility by Mr N and so I wouldnt have expected Aquas checks to have been as detailed as 
for example a loan or mortgage. I dont think Aqua was obliged to look at Mr Ns bank 
account statements
I appreciate Mr N says Aqua didnt carry out any affordability checks. But having looked at its 
records, Im satisfied that it checked his credit file and calculated his existing debt. I can see 
Mr N declared an income of over £29,000 and that he had on the face of it, limited other 
debts which amounted to £1,200. I can see that Aqua considered Mr Ns default but also 
considered that he appeared to manage other credit agreements appropriately. So, Im 
satisfied that Aqua carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ns application 
and that its lending was not unaffordable or irresponsible. Im also satisfied NewDay 
approved what I think was a very modest credit limit of £250.
I have looked at Mr Ns account and can see that on the whole he managed his account 
appropriately. I appreciate on occasions he exceeded his credit limit but also think he made 
required payments. So, Im satisfied Aqua was entitled to consider Mr Ns account 
management when deciding to increase his credit limit and that it did carry out further checks 
on them. I can see that Mr N was able to use his account in this country and abroad and 
continued to manage his account appropriately until he says he lost his job.
I am sorry to read that Mr N lost his job but think it likely it was that event that led to the 
affordability issues and not the original decision to lend or the credit limit increases.
Overall, Im satisfied appropriate checks were carried out by Aqua and so it follows I cant 
fairly order it to refund any interest or charges which I think were correctly applied in line with 
agreed account terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman