DRN-2508693
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed him for the 
money he lost after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr W was advised by his financial advisor to make an investment. Based 
on their advice he made a payment of around £26,000 to what he believed to be an 
investment firm but later turned out to be a scammer.
In July 2017 Mr W was contacted by the police who informed him hed been the victim of a 
scam. Barclays records reflect he contacted it straight away to let it know hed been the 
victim of a scam and the police were involved. It appears Barclays took no action in 
response to this contact.
In February 2018 Mr W contacted Barclays again to request information to help with the 
police investigation which it provided. He called Barclays again in June 2019 and at this 
point it logged the scam claim and contacted the receiving bank to see if any funds 
remained. Following a response from the receiving bank it told Mr W no funds remained so it 
couldnt do anything further.
In August 2020 after receiving further advice Mr W made a complaint to Barclays. He said it 
should consider his case under The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
and reimburse him for the money hed lost. Barclays responded to his complaint but 
explained the code didnt apply in his case so it wasnt able to do this.
Mr W brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
because Mr W didnt accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Barclays have intervened when Mr W made the transfer?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr W made were authorised payments even though he 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr W is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Ive noted Mr Ws comments about the CRM Code and his request that Barclays consider 
his complaint in the spirit of the code. Hes explained hes also been told by an independent 
third party Barclays should apply the code in his case. But, the CRM Code only applies to 
payments made after 28 May 2019. As Mr W made the payment to the scammer before this 
date the CRM code doesnt apply. I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably in not 
applying it and its not something Ive taken into account when considering his case.
But, Ive taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Having considered Mr Ws account statements leading up to the payment in question I 
havent seen any other payments of a similar size leaving the account. And it was a 
significant amount being paid to a new payee. Overall, I think it was significantly unusual and 
ought reasonably to have prompted intervention from Barclays.
Would Barclays intervention have made a difference?
Had Barclays intervened as I think it ought to have in this case, I wouldve expected it to 
have questioned Mr W further about the payment to find out what it was for and how it came 
about. And I think its questions ought to have been probing questions that sufficiently tested 
his answers so Barclays was satisfied they were plausible.
And if asked, I cant see any reason Mr W wouldnt have told Barclays what he understood 
to have been the situation at the time - that he was making an investment recommended by 
his financial advisor. If questioned further about this I think he likely wouldve told it hed had 
a long standing relationship with his advisor and made numerous investments at their 
recommendation previously. So overall I think he wouldve likely given plausible answers 
that wouldnt have given Barclays cause for concern.
I think its reasonable to expect Barclays to have a good understanding of how investment 
scams generally work and what to look out for. And when it identifies potential fraud and 
scams I think it reasonably ought to give its customers targeted and specific warnings 
around how to protect themselves against the scams it has identified. But I dont think Mr 
Ws circumstances wouldve reflected what Barclays would be on the look out for as I dont 
think it carries any of the usual hallmarks of a scam. So I wouldnt have expected Barclays to 
have given Mr W any warnings about potential scams because I dont think it reasonably 
ought to have identified one. 
I also dont think any general scam warnings or being questioned about the payment he was 
making wouldve persuaded Mr W not to make it. I say this because I think he likely wouldve 
had faith in the information his financial advisor had given him and it doesnt appear he had 
any suspicions about the investment until several months after the payment was made.
Overall, although I do think Barclays ought reasonably to have intervened, I dont think this 
intervention wouldve prevented the payment from being made.
Did Barclays do enough once it was informed of the scam?Part of Mr Ws complaint is that after he reported the scam to Barclays it didnt contact him 
or take any action for nearly two years. Barclays contact notes show Mr W contacted it in 
July 2017 to let it know hed been the victim of a scam. And this is what Mr W recalls 
happened, so it seems likely this is when he first reported the scam to Barclays. And I 
wouldve expected Barclays to have acted immediately at this point in contacting the 
receiving bank to try and retrieve the funds Mr W had lost.
As it didnt, Im satisfied it didnt do what it reasonably ought to have done and did cause 
delays. But, having contacted the receiving bank directly, its confirmed to our service that Mr 
Ws money was removed from the receiving account within a few days of it having been 
received. 
So even if Barclays had contacted it in July 2017 the day Mr W first reported the scam, it 
wouldve responded to confirm Mr Ws money no longer remained and couldnt be returned 
to him. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to do more than this as it wouldve been entitled to 
rely on the answer the receiving bank gave.
Im aware that Mr W has been informed this is still being considered by the police and it may 
be that via this avenue hes entitled to a return of some of the money hes lost. But in 
considering whether Barclays earlier action wouldve meant the return of his money at the 
time, as the receiving bank has said no funds remained in July 2017, I dont think hes been 
disadvantaged by Barclays delays. 
Ive noted Mr Ws comments that Barclays didnt get in touch with him for over a year 
following his initial report of the scam. And this isnt what Id expect to see. As Ive said, I 
think Barclays ought to have acted immediately when informed of the scam. But when 
considering his complaint Im looking at the impact any errors or delays have caused. As Ive 
explained, Barclays delay in acting didnt prevent the successful return of funds as theyd 
already left the account. 
And although I understand why Mr W wouldve liked to have been updated by the bank, Ive 
noted he didnt contact it for an update either during this period so it doesnt appear he was 
relying on any information from it at that time. Im very sorry to hear of what Mr W has been 
through, but I dont think any error on Barclays part has caused the loss of his money. So I 
dont require it to reimburse him for his loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman