DRN-4035810
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC in applying a new product 
rate to their buy to let mortgage. They ask for compensation. Mr M has dealt with the 
complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms interest rate product was due to expire on 3 September 2022. In early 
September 2022 Mr M applied for a new interest rate product. He expected the new interest 
rate would be applied to the mortgage by the end of September 2022. The rate wasnt 
applied until December 2022. In the meantime, Barclays standard variable rate applied. 
Mr M says they had to take out a loan to meet the higher payments, as they had no family or 
friends they could borrow from. This meant they incurred interest costs. Mr M says he spent 
hours on calls to Barclays to try and sort the matter out. He says Barclays didnt apologise or 
send confirmation that the rate had been applied.  
In response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Barclays said it had applied the interest rate, 
backdated to 3 September 2022, and refunded the overpaid interest of about £4,000. It 
offered £300 compensation. 
Our investigator said Barclays had done enough to put matters right. 
Mr M said £300 isnt fair compensation. He referred to Barclays lack of communication and 
asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M applied for a new product on 2 September 2022. He expected this to be in place by the 
end of the month. Barclays says at that time it was taking 20 working days to review and 
apply new products. So Mr Ms expectation that the rate would be applied at the end of 
September 2022 was about right.
However, Barclays didnt apply the rate until early December 2022. It then backdated the 
rate to 3 September 2022 and refunded the overpaid interest. 
Mr M says Barclays didnt apologise or send confirmation the rate had been applied. There 
were delays with the product rate being applied to Mr and Mrs Ms account. But once 
Barclays had applied the product rate it wrote to Mr and Mrs M to confirm what it had done. It 
confirmed this in its final response letter on 14 December 2022. It sent a letter confirming the 
product, the interest rate, the refund and the new monthly payment at the end of December 
2022. Barclays complaint handler offered sincere apologies in the final response letter. 
Mr M said they had to take out a loan to meet the higher mortgage payments, and incurred 
interest costs. Our investigator asked for a copy of the loan agreement. Mr M said hed 
borrowed from family and friends. Mr M didnt provide evidence of interest or other costs 
incurred by having to borrow money to meet the mortgage payments. As Mr and Mrs M 
didnt provide evidence of financial loss, I cant fairly require Barclays to pay for this. 
Mr M says his credit file would have been harmed if he hadnt maintained payments and this 
was a serious matter that would affect his cost of borrowing in future. Mr and Mrs M did 
maintain payments, and they havent provided evidence of any harm to their credit files. I 
cant fairly require Barclays to pay compensation for something that didnt happen.
No doubt though the delays were worrying for Mr and Mrs M. Their monthly payment 
increased from about £1,000 to about £2,500. Having to chase Barclays would have been 
inconvenient, especially as Mr M says there were long wait times on calls. Barclays sent a 
final response in October 2022, but the matter wasnt resolved and Mr M had to contact 
Barclays again.
I think its right that Barclays offered compensation. Taking all of the circumstances into 
account, including the time taken by Barclays to put matters right, I think £300 compensation 
(in total) is fair and reasonable. Barclays says its already paid £200 to Mr and Mrs M. 
My final decision
I think the steps taken and compensation offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs M 
(if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman