DRN-3404444
The complaint
Mr R says the offer of redress made by Curtis Banks Limited (CBL) for the delay it caused 
when switching his investment to a different platform provider doesnt properly put him back 
into the position hed have been in now had it not been for its failings.
What happened
Theres broad agreement between the parties about the chronology and substance of events 
in this case.
In April 2020 Mr Rs financial adviser recommended a switch of his investment platform from 
UBS to Credit Suisse. This encompassed various accounts and portfolios, including his Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with CBL. Unfortunately, this transfer was delayed. It was 
actioned on 27 May 2020 instead of by 6 May 2020. CBL accepted responsibility for what 
had happened, acknowledging a delay of 13 working days.
Mr R says that during the process of switching his funds his investment strategy changed. It 
had been his intent to have invested his funds promptly upon receipt. But during May 2020 
he decided to hold cash and then implement investments in three separate investment 
tranches in June, July and August 2020.
CBL calculated the loss it thought Mr R had incurred. It considered his investment actions as 
they were implemented between June and August 2020. It worked out what his investments 
wouldve been worth had each transaction happened 13 working days earlier. Using this 
method it arrived at a loss figure of around £1,764. It also worked out an alternative loss 
figure applying 8% simple interest per annum to his investment pot for the 21 calendar days 
delay. This produced a figure of about £2,226. It offered him the higher of the two figures.
Mr R didnt think either of CBLs offers to put things right was fair. He considered it should 
assume that hed made all his investments from the point it was agreed his funds shouldve 
been available. His financial adviser produced a schedule of loss showing the difference in 
cost between units he bought in June, July and August 2020 and the cost had he made the 
trades on 4 May 2020. This produced a loss figure of about £33, 238.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs case. She thought that in order to show the loss was 
solely down to the delay, there had to be causation - a direct link between this and the 
change in investment strategy. She considered while there had been an intent to invest as 
soon as possible, this couldve changed given market volatility at the time.
Mr R disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide 
a decision. This is the final stage of this Services dispute resolution process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what should happen and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
In April 2020, Mr Rs financial adviser recorded his needs, goals and priorities in the 
following terms:
You would like to grow your assets by achieving capital growth and some income while 
accepting a high level of risk. You would like to manage your assets in a prudent, cost 
effective and tax efficient manner to ensure you maximise the value of your assets over the 
next 40 years plus.
Financial security is paramount to you, and you would like to custody your assets with a UK 
regulated and stable institution. Your assets need to support you once you step back from 
work, giving you your desired lifestyle and to ensure your needs are met in full over the long 
term.
Mr R was focussed on the long-run and planning for his retirement. So, it wasnt primarily 
about timing the market, but time in the market. Of course, he wanted to make the trades at 
an optimal moment.
In responding to the Investigators view, Mr R said:
My IFA had made a recommendation to reinvest the proceeds of my SIPP substantially in 
the instruments set out in page 15 of the suitability report. That recommendation wasnt in 
any way unclear or uncertain from my perspective. at the time of placing the actual trades, 
he would email me with the precise final details of the trades to be placed in those 
recommended instruments
You will see from his email to me on 30 April that he specifically asked me to confirm that 
he was to Proceed in line with the report we discussed (with final trade recommendations to 
follow) which I did, in writing, on the same date It may have been better if instead of 
recommendations he had used instructions, but that in practice is what he means/meant.
I had accepted his recommendations by email on 30th April and he would have placed 
orders to execute those recommendations if funds arrived on time. The only reason that he 
didnt is funds didnt and I didnt change those instructions until 15th May
Mr Rs financial adviser told this Service:
I provided recommendations to [Mr R] in my suitability report dated 25/04/20. My 
recommendation is always and was to invest in full without trying to time the market and 
when the funds land/at the earliest opportunity, (unless stated specifically otherwise in the 
report) or client prefers otherwise  in which case we will action the trades as per client 
instructions...
Mr R changed his instruction on 15/05/20 via email noting to hold fire and keep cash. This 
remained [his] position until mid to late June, when he instructed the three 
instalments/tranche approach  hence we held cash for this period.
I would not have received Mr Rs instruction on the 15/05/20 - if the funds were received on 
04/05/20 (when they should have been). [He] had confirmed in writing on 30/04/20 his 
approval for me to proceed with the recommendations I made on 25/04/20 and invest the full 
amount. This is just 1 full working/trading day prior to the 04/05/20  when we were 
due/hoping to invest the funds...
On the other hand, CBL says:Curtis Banks cannot be held responsible for the perceived losses which occurred as a direct 
result of the change in investment instruction made by the client and his adviser.
We do not agree with the claims made, which suggest we should accept detriment on funds 
which were not invested for 29, 54 and 85 calendar days respectively, after they were 
available with the investment manager. What [Mr R] and his adviser decided to do after 27 
May onwards, whether it was to invest in full, invest in part or keep as cash, is their 
decision.
Had [Mr R] invested funds in-line with his original instruction, we would have looked to 
calculate loss based on what should have actually happened had our delay not occurred. 
We cannot however, be held accountable for any losses which occurred solely as a result of 
the subsequent investment decisions made between [Mr R] and his financial adviser.
Calculating loss differs depending on the investment strategy followed once funds are 
available for investment. In most instances, once funds are available they are immediately 
invested and in the same manner as the original instruction. Calculations are subsequently 
completed to determine the difference in units they should have had, had this been actioned 
earlier...
The assertion that [Mr R] and his adviser changed their investment strategy as a result of 
our delay should not have any bearing on the proposed detriment calculations. If the original 
instructions arent followed we cant then be held accountable for the impact of the new 
instructions, as this is a separate investment decision made by the client
Ive also reviewed emails provided by Mr R, which capture exchanges with his financial 
adviser between February 2020 until June 2020 about what to do with his funds. For 
example his adviser notes on 31 March 2020:
I believe when we last spoke you noted that it may be best to transfer everything in specie, 
so that we remain invested in the market during the transfer process given the current 
volatility. As such I have amended the letters to say that the Global Growth in your SIPP and 
ISA are to be transferred in specie (as well as the Global Growth in your core account). 
Alternatively we can hedge by sticking to the original plan of transferring the SIPP and ISA in 
cash, but its up to you and happy to discuss further if useful.
Subsequent to completion of his suitability report, on 30 April his adviser contacts Mr R:
Sorry to bother you. Just tidying up records on my side, are you ok to email back confirming 
your instruction to: Cash transfer for ISA and SIPP holdings (in line with your 
preference)proceed inline with the [suitability] report we discussed (with final trade 
recommendations to follow)If you could email back saying confirmed that would be great.
Mr R responded the same day to tell his adviser should proceed on this basis.
On 15 May 2020 Mr R says to his adviser:
As discussed, happy to leave SIPP in cash for now.
On 12 June 2020 Mr R asks his adviser:
Am wondering with this bit of a market correction whether its worth getting some of the 
SIPP invested  no great rush but starting to think about it.
On the same day his adviser responded saying:
Shouldnt look for the bottom but makes sense to put to work if valuations continue to 
correct, especially in the SIPP. Volatility is likely to return in the short term and the market is 
still range bound, trying to find a fair value on equities right now. We could phase the redeployment in tranches or one thought could be to buy our fixed income positions 
now/sooner rather than later, followed by the equity funds thereafter.
As we know, Mr R followed a strategy to invest his funds in tranches between June and 
August 2020.
Although the suitability report dated 25 April 2020 did provide detailed recommendations 
about where Mr Rs funds should be invested, these werent instructions. This is made clear 
on page 14 of the report where it said:
At the time of writing financial markets are volatile, with the volatility index around 40. As 
such we will finalise the numbers through trade instructions which I will present once the 
funds have been transferred (in specie and cash), in line with your preferences.
The table presented will be amended further with updated values and final trade 
recommendations outlined once the investments have been transferred....
Based on the information available, I cant conclude the tranche strategy Mr R adopted 
wouldnt have been had the transfer happened on time. I say this because although the 
suitability report dated 25 April 2020, along with the email exchanges between Mr R and his 
financial adviser, show he didnt want to be out of the market, there were ongoing concerns 
about volatility. Any instructions were to be finalised once the transfer was complete. 
Further, there was little more than a week between when the switch shouldve happened to 
when hed decided his funds should be kept in cash for the time being.
On balance I dont think it would be reasonable in the circumstances to uphold this complaint 
against Curtis Banks Limited. It should now honour its offer of redress to Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman