DRN-2254065
The complaint
Miss D complains that Armagh Credit Union Limited has used her savings to repay her loans 
without telling her.
What happened
Miss D says Armagh Credit Union has used her savings to repay her loans without telling 
her which has caused her significant financial hardship and has meant she couldnt carry out 
urgent repairs on her home. She says she saved the money, but Armagh Credit Union kept 
taking money out of her savings to repay the loan and hasnt been able to tell her where her 
savings have gone. Miss D says she would like an explanation and compensation for whats 
taken place.
Armagh Credit Union says its not made a mistake and says it acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions where Miss D missed loan repayments and says it is entitled to take 
the repayment from savings in those circumstances.
Miss D brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Miss D had agreed to the account terms and conditions which allowed 
Armagh Credit Union to take money from savings where there were missed loan payments 
and had told her that it would do so. The investigator didnt think there was any evidence of 
payments by Miss D following requests from Armagh Credit Union.
Miss D doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Armagh Credit Union has dealt fairly 
with this complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I realise that Miss D will be disappointed by 
my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what she says has taken place.
I have looked at the various agreements between Miss D and Armagh Credit Union and Im 
satisfied the terms and conditions of those agreements, which Miss D agreed to, say that 
money can be used from savings to repay missed loan repayments. I find that it what took 
place here that Armagh Credit Union fairly told Miss D there were missed payments and 
after an agreed time period used the savings to repay the missed loan payments. Im also 
satisfied that having looked at Armagh Credit Union records that there were numerous 
examples of missed payments and that Miss D didnt then make those payments herself 
which meant the money was correctly taken from savings.
Im satisfied overall that Armagh Credit Union has acted fairly and has explained what took 
place. I dont think in those circumstances that Armagh Credit Union has inappropriately 
taken Miss Ds money or that there is any evidence of Miss D making a payment in addition 
to the money being taken from her savings account. I also find that Armagh Credit Union has 
fairly tried to explain what took place and why. And if Miss D didnt receive any letters about 
this then that is not something I can fairly hold Armagh Credit Union responsible for as its 
not responsible for the safe delivery of mail.
I appreciate that Miss D has not been able to use her savings to fund the home renovations 
and that will cause difficulties. But as I dont think Armagh Credit Union has made a mistake 
or acted unfairly, then I cant order it to pay the compensation Miss D would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman